1-) - The power to make a judgment in accordance with the divine decree.
2-) - A property and sovereignty that will not be granted to anyone after him.
3-) — A person who refers to Masjid Al-Aqsa only to pray, should be freed from his sins like the day he was born from his mother. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (The first two things that Solomon (Aleyhis Salam) wished for were given to him. I hope his third wish will also be granted to him.)
425-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He used to say: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When someone wakes up from his sleep at night, he should not put it in a bowl without pouring water on his hand two or three times. Because he doesn't know where his hand stays at night. )
426-) - “... The following is reported from Salim's father (Abdullah bin Omar) (radiyallahu anhuma). Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When someone wakes up from his sleep, he should not put his hand in the bowl until he washes it. )
427-) - “... According to what was narrated from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he wants to make wudu after waking up, he should not put his hand in the water bowl without washing his hands. For surely he does not know where his hand sleeps at night and what he puts his hand on. )
428-) - “... It is reported that al-Harith (radiyallahu anh) said: (radiyallahu anh) asked for water, (when water was brought) he washed his hands before putting them in the bowl. Then he said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) doing this. )
429-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, ) ". . According to what is reported from Said bin zeyd (radiy-Allâhu anh), he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (There is no prayer for a person who does not have wudu.
431-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh) he said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (There is no prayer for a person who does not have wudu.
432-) - “... It is reported from Sahl bin Sa'd al-Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “There is no prayer for a person who does not have one. There is no ablution for a person who does not mention Allah's name on ablution. And whoever does not send salawat on the Prophet, there is no prayer. There is no prayer for the one who does not love the Ansar. ) ...
434-) - “... From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) she said: When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made wudu, combed his hair and beard, and wore shoes, he liked to start from the right. "
435-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh) said: (The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When you take it, start with your right limb.) ... Abu'l-Hasan bin Salama said: Abu Hatim confided for us. (He also said) that Yahya bin Salih, Ibn-i Nufayl and others have given us the throne. They said: Zuhayr (bin Muawiya) has appointed us. He mentioned the hadith of Abu Hurayra (via Al-A'mesh and Abu Salih, mentioned in the previous year). )
437-) - “... It is narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) excused himself from a palm. "
438-) - “... It is narrated from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: When he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made wudu, he made mazmaza three times and istinshak from one handful. "
439-) - “... From Abdullah bin Vezîd Al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to us. He asked us for water for ablution. I brought him water. He made mazmaza and istinşak from a handful of people. "
440-) - “... According to what is reported from Salama bin Kays (Al-Ashcai) (radiyallahu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) told me: When you are using a stone, make the number of stones odd. )
441-) - “... It is reported from Lakît bin Sabıra (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: O Messenger of Allah! I said (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) inform me about wudu (praised by the Shar’ah). The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Take isbâ (= get it completely and perfectly) and exaggerate in istinshak when you are not fasting. )
442-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Blow your nose completely and perfectly once or three times. )
443-) - “... From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The person who takes it should clear his nose thoroughly, and the person who asks for it with a stone should count the number of stones (like three, five, not even). ) alone. )
444-) - “... From Sabit bin Abi Safiyya as-Sümâlî (radiy-Allâhu anh): I said to Abu Ja'far (Muhammad Al-Bakir) (radiyallahu anh): By Câbir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) I asked you: (Is it?) that he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed ablution (by washing his wudu' parts) once. Abu Ja'far said: I said to Abu Ja'far (was it ascribed to you by Jabir that Rasûlullah (another time) performed ablution by washing his limbs twice (and once) three times? Abu Ja'far said: "
445-) - “... It was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) perform ablution (by washing his limbs) with a handful of water each. "
446-) - “... From Umar (bin al-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh): I saw that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed ablution (washing his limbs) once in the battle of Tabuk. "
447-) - “... According to what was reported from Shakîk bin Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Osman and Ali (radiy-Allâhu anhu) made wudu three times (washing their limbs) and that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) I saw that they said that his wudu' was like this. " : ... Abu'l-Hasan bin Salama said that Abu Hatim ascribed the hadith to us (He also said) Abu Naim has appointed us. he chanted.
449-) - “... According to what is reported from Al-Muttalib bin Abdillah bin Hantab (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) performed ablution three times (by washing his limbs) and that the Messenger of Allah He said that he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) narrated that he made wudu like this. "
450-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha and Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): They said that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made wudu (washing his limbs) three times each.
451-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Abi Evfâ (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: . "
452-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Malik Al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to perform ablution (washing his limbs) three times each.
453-) - “... Er-Rubeyyi Bint-i Muavviz bin Afra (radiyallahu anha) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to make ablution (by washing his limbs) three times each. "
454-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Umar (radiyallahu anhuma) said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) made ablution (washing his limbs) once and said: It is a person's ablution that Allah has never He does not accept a prayer without it.) Then he made ablution (by washing my limbs) twice, and said: It is a valuable and valuable ablution. ) and (washing his blessed limbs) three times, he made ablution and said: It is the most perfect wudu'. And this (shape) is my and Halilullah Ibrahim's ablution. Whoever makes wudu like this and says: I testify that there is no god worthy of worship except Allah, and that Muhammad is the servant and Messenger of Allah, ) the eight doors of Paradise (together) will be opened for that person. He enters from any of them he wills. ) commanded. "
455-) - “... It is reported that Ubayy bin Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked for water and made wudu (washing his limbs) once. Then he said: Wudu is his duty.) or he said: (This is such an ablution of a person that if he does not take it, Allah will not accept any of his prayers.) Then he made ablution (by washing his limbs) twice and then said: It is such an ablution of a person that when he takes it, Allah gives him two shares of reward. ) then he performed ablution (by washing) three times each. Then he said: (This is the ablution of me and the Messengers before me.)
456-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ubayy bin Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: For this, beware of the water delusion. )
457-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (his father, Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum), he said: He came and asked how to make wudu. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) showed him how to make wudu (washing his wudu' parts) three times each. Then he said: This is it. A person who does more than this will be isaa or oppressing or oppressing. )
458-) - “... It is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) that he said: I spent the night with my aunt Maymuna (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), who was once one of the wives of the Prophet. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) got up (at night) and made ablution using an old water vase. He was using water sparingly. I got up too. I did as he did. "
459-) - “... (Abdullah) from Ibn-i Umar (radiyallahu anhuma): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a man performing ablution and said to him: (Do not waste. Do not waste.)
460-) - “... From Abdullah bin Amr (radiy-Allâhu anhum): (One day) While Sa'd was performing ablution, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed by him and said: What is waste? Sa'd said: -Is there wastage in ablution? When he asked, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied: Yes, even if you are on a river. ) (There is wastage in wudu'). "
461-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us to perform ablution. "
462-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: Shall I not show you?) Companions: Show me, O Messenger of Allah! they said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: To make wudu completely, to take many steps towards the mosques, and to wait for another prayer after one prayer. ) commanded. "
463-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: To perform ablution properly, to take many steps towards the mosques, and to perform the following prayer after (one) prayer. watching (waiting) is the atonement for sins.)
464-) - “... According to what was narrated from Ammar bin Yasir (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), he said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) analyzing his beard (when he made wudu). "
465-) - “... According to what is reported from Osman (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) analyzed his (blessed) beard while performing wudu. "
466-) - “... From Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made wudu, he would spread his (blessed) fingers (open) and analyze his (blessed) beard. "
467-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) said: When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made wudu, he rubbed both sides of his face a little, and then tucked his fingers into his beard from bottom to top. . "
468-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh), he said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). He performed ablution and analyzed his beard (while making ablution). "
469-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Yahya (he) from his father (Yahya al-Maadnl (radiyallahu anhuma), Yahya said to Abdullah bin Zayd: — who is Amr bin Yahya's He is his ancestor. Can you show me how (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed wudu? He said yes. Then he asked for (some) wudu water. After pouring water on his hands, he washed his hands twice. Then he rinsed his mouth three times. He drew water into his nose. After that he washed his face three times. Then he washed his hands up to the elbows twice. Then he wiped his head (whole) with both hands and brought both hands forward and back. He reached the ground. After that, he washed his feet. "
470-) - “... From Osman bin Affan (radiy-Allâhu anh): I saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and he made wudu and supported his head once. "
471-) - “... Ali (radiyallahu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wiped his head once (while making wudu). "
472-) - “... Salama bin El-Ekra' (radiy-Allâhu anh) reportedly said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed ablution and wiped his head once. "
473-) - “... From Er-Rubeyyi' bint-i Muavviz bin Afra' (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wiped his head twice (while making wudu).
475-) - “... Er-Rubeyyi (Bint-i Muavviz) said from (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed ablution and supported the external and internal parts of his ears. "
476-) - “... From Er-Rubeyyi bint-i Muavviz bin Afra' (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed ablution and (while wiping his ears) his two (witness) fingertips were placed on the tips of his two ears. stuck it in their holes. "Dawud and Beyhaki also narrated the hadith.
477-) - “... From Al-Mikdâm bin Madîkerib (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed ablution and supported his head and the outer and inner parts of his ears (while performing wudu). "
478-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: From the head (one piece). is. )
479-) - “... From Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Ears are from the head.) And (while making ablution) he would wipe his head once, and the ends of the eyes on the nose side would also be wiped. )
480-) - "... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, he said: They are from the head (one piece) "
481-) - “... From Al-Mustawrid bin Shaddad (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): I saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): He performed ablution and crescented both toes with his pinky (left hand while making wudu). . "...
483-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When you want to stop, perform ablution (perform it completely by observing the rukn, conditions and sunnahs). . ) Bring water (by crescent) between the fingers of the hands and feet. ) "
484-) - “... According to what is reported from Lakît bin Sabıra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: fasten and crescent between your fingers.)
485-) - “... From Abu Rafi' (radiyallahu anh): He said: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) made ablution, he used to have his ring moved (so that his bottom got wet). "
486-) - “... From Abdullah bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a congregation that performed wudu and did not touch their heels with water. Thereupon: torment (not washed in ablution) heels. Take full ablution. ) commanded. "
487-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Let the heel be punished (not washed in ablution). )
488-) - “... According to what was narrated from Abu Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) saw Abdurrahman (bin Ebi Bekr-i Siddiq) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) performing ablution and said: (O Abdurrahman !) Perform ablution perfectly. Because I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saying arakıyba (= the thick nerves on the heel-...) "
489-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said:
490-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) said: While I was saying to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), “From the fire (not washed in ablution) to the thick nerves on the heels…..” I heard, he said. "
491-) - “... Abu Abdillah Al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh) who narrated separately from Khalid bin Al-Walid, Yazid bin Abi Sufyan, Shurahbîl bin Hasana and Amr bin Al-As (radiyallahu anhum) said: He said: All of the people heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: Take it in full. Let the fire be tormented (not washed in ablution) heels.)"
492-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hayya (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) was making wudu and washing his feet with his heels (knuckle bones) and after (completing his wudu): I wanted to show you the wudu of the wa sallam). ) I saw it. "
493-) - “... From Al-Mikdâm bin Madîkerib (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed ablution and washed his feet three times (while making wudu). "
494-) - "... Er-Rubayyi (Bint-i Muavviz) (radiyallahu anh) said: wa sallam) refers to the hadith no. 390, which states that he washes his feet (three times each) while performing ablution. While this is the case. “I find anointing (feet) alone with the Book of Allah,” he said. "
495-) - “... According to what is reported from Jami' bin Shaddad Abu Sahra (radiy-Allâhu anh): (I heard Humra say the following from Osman bin Affan (radiy-Allâhu anhum) while he was transmitting hadiths to Abu Burda in the mosque: I heard him say: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam' said: (Whoever performs his wudu' completely as Allah has ordered, the obligatory prayers (performed with such wudu') will be expiation for the (minor) sins between them.
496-) - “... According to what is reported from Rifaa bin Rafi (bin Malik) (radiy-Allâhu anh): While sitting next to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, washing his arms with his elbows. Without a doubt, no one's prayer can be complete unless he performs his ablution as Allah has ordered by wiping his head and washing his feet together with the heels. ) commanded. "
497-) - “... Al-Hakam b. According to what is reported from Sufyan As-Sakafi (radiyallahu anh): He saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) taking a handful of water and sprinkling it on his front private parts after performing wudu. "
498-) - “... According to what is reported from Zayd bin Harise (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Alayhis Salam) taught me how to make wudu and ordered me to sprinkle water under my clothes after wudu to get rid of the urine that will come out.) "... Abu'l-Hasan bin Salama said: (They said) Ibn Lahia narrated a hadith to us and told us the same hadith..... -
500-) - “... From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When you take your wudu (to complete your wudu), intidah (= sprinkle water on the front private part.)
501-) - “... It was narrated from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said; The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) performed ablution and then sprinkled water on his front private parts. "
502-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Hani' bint-i Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): In the year he was conquered, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) tried to take a bath. Fâtime (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) kept a curtain over him. After the ghusl, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took his robe and wrapped himself in it. "
503-) - “... From Kays bin Sa'd (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to us. We put water for Him (to wash). After making ghusl, we brought him a cloth dyed versle, and he put on it. After a while, I seemed to be looking at the traces of paint on the folds of his (blessed) belly. "
504-) - “... It is narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) that his aunt Maimuha (radiy-Allâhu anha), who was one of the wives of the Prophet, said: I gave him a robe (peshkir), he refused and started to shake off the water."
505-) - “... From Salman-i Farisi (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wiped his (blessed) face with the reverse side of the woolen robe he was wearing after performing wudu. “
506-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he makes wudu well and says three times after wudu, 8 gates of Paradise will be opened for him. He can enter from any of them he wishes. ) (I say with my tongue and I confirm with my heart that there is no god but Allah. He is One, He has no partner. Muhammad is His servant and Messenger. ) ... Abu'l-Hasan bin Salama Al-Kattan said to us: Ibrahim bin Nasr threatened. (He also said) Abu Nâim ascribed to us the equivalent of this hadith. "
508-) - “... According to what is reported from Umar bin Al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A Muslim who performs his ablution well, then = that there is no god but Allah, and that there is no god but Allah. If he says "I testify without a doubt that Muhammad is His servant and Messenger," 8 doors of Paradise will be opened for him. He enters (heaven) from any of them he wills. )
509-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to us (once). We brought water out of yellow copper (manufactured) in a Tawr. He also made ablution with it. "
510-) - “... According to what is reported from Zaynab Bint-i Jahsh (radiyallahu anha): He had a copper boat. He said: "I combed the blessed head of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in that boat (made of copper for washing).
511-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): He said: No doubt the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) made ablution from tawr (yellow copper cup). "
512-) - “... From Aisha (radiyallahu anha): He said: 'The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) slept. They even snored. Then he would get up and pray without making wudu. ' He said, 'Vakî' said: He meant that the Messenger of God slept while he was in prostration. "
513-) - “... From Abdullah (Ibn Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) slept without a doubt. He even snored. Then he got up and prayed. "
514-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) slept while he was sitting. "Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) wanted to say: The sleep mentioned in the hadith, which states that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed without making wudu after sleeping and snoring, occurred while he was sitting.)
515-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: For this reason, anyone who is sleeping should perform ablution. )
516-) - “... Safwan bin Assal (Al-Muradi al-Jamali) (may Allah be pleased with him) said: He ordered us to remove it for sleeping reasons, but to remove it because of his condition of being junub. "
517-) - "... According to what is reported from Busra bint-i Safwan (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When he touches his male genitalia with his hand, let him make ablution."
518-) - “... According to what was narrated from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "When someone touches his phallus with his hand, he needs to perform ablution. )
519-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Habîbe (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: I heard Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Whoever touches the genital organ with his hand should perform ablution. )
520-) - “... From Abu Ayyub (radiy-Allâhu anh): I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say, “The person who touches the genital organ with his hand should perform ablution. )
521-) - “... According to what is reported from Talc (bin Ali) (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard him say the following when he was asked about the ruling of touching the male organ with hands. (I personally witnessed this event.) There is no ablution. Because it is a part of you. )
522-) - “... From Abu Umama (radiyallahu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about the ruling of touching the male organ with the hand. Then he said: it is nothing but your body, a small piece of meat. ) commanded. "
523-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Make wudu' for something that is cooked in the fire.) This hadith of Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) is narrated. Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) asked: Shall I (again) make ablution because of boiled water? saying (he confused the hadith of Abu Huraira). Thereupon, Abu Huraira said to him: My brother's son! When you hear a hadith from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he said, 'Do not give examples for it. "
524-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Make wudu for the cooked thing (food). )
525-) - “... According to what is reported from Yazid bin Abi Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh) put his hands on his ears and my ears were deaf if I did not hear the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: , he said: perform ablution because of the cooked thing (food). )
526-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wiped his hands with a table cloth under the food after eating a sheep’s shovel. Then he got up and prayed. "
527-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), Abu Bakr and Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) ate bread and meat but did not make wudu. "
528-) - “... According to what is reported from Zuhri (radiyallahu anh), he said the following; I was present at the dinner of al-Walîd or Abdülmelik. After the meal, when it was time for prayer, I got up to make ablution. To three of these, Jafar an Amr bin Umayya said: I testify on my father that he witnessed that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed without making wudu after eating food cooked in the fire.
529-) - ... (Zuhri said) Ali bin Abdillah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) also said: I also testify on my father like this.
530-) - “... From Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha): She said: A sheep shovel was brought to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He ate it and prayed without touching the water. "
531-) - “... According to what is reported from Suveyd bin Nûman al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh): a group of Companions, including himself, set out for Khaybar with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). When they reached the Sahba, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) offered the afternoon prayer. Then he asked for provisions, nothing but kavud was brought, so they ate and drank, then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked for water, after rinsing his mouth, he got up and led us the evening prayer. "
532-) - “... From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ate a sheep’s shovel, then rinsed his mouth, washed his hands, and prayed. "
533-) - “... Berâ bin Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh): said; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was asked about the decision to make ablution due to camel meat, and then he said: Perform ablution due to meat (eating). "
534-) - “... According to what is narrated from Jabir bin Samura (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) told us to make ablution for (eating) camel meat and for mutton (eating) meat. He ordered us not to perform ablution. "
535-) - “... From Usayd bin Hudayr (radiy-Allâhu anh): Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Do not make wudu for (drinking) sheep’s milk and perform ablution for (drinking) camel milk) . ) commanded. "
536-) - “... From Abdullah bin Amr (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ). He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: Make wudu for its meat, and not for mutton's meat. Make wudu for camel's milk and not for sheep's milk. Pray in sheep's pens and do not pray in camel beds. )”
537-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Rinse your mouth with (water) for (drinking). Because it has oil.)"
538-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), one of the wives of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When you drink, rinse your mouth with (water). Because it is oily. )
539-) - “... From Sahl bin Sa'd Es-Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Rinse your mouth with water because of (drinking). Because it's oily.)"
540-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) milked a Shat (sheep or goat) and drank from its milk. Then he asked for water, rinsed his mouth, and said: (No doubt, this is oily.)
541-) - “... According to what is reported from Urwa bin Zubayr (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) kissed some of his wives. Then he left without making ablution and went to prayer. ) I said to Aisha: The kissed lady is none other than you. Aisha (radiyallahu anha) laughed at this. "
542-) - “... According to what is reported from Zaynab es-Sahmiye (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would make wudu, then kiss (some of his wives) and stand for prayer without making wudu. (In this case) he would sometimes kiss me. -"
543-) - “... According to what Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) has narrated, he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked about the verdict of mezî. They answered as follows: It is necessary to make wudu. Ghusl is required in the semen. ) According to what is reported from Mikdad bin Al-Aswad (radiy-Allâhu anh), he asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) the following: What happens to the person if he approaches his wife (that is, plays without sexual intercourse) and as a result, no semen comes out? should he do? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) replied: When he finds the past, he should sprinkle water on the genital organ. (The narrator said that he should wash his genital organ) and perform ablution. )
545-) - “... According to what was narrated from Sahl bin Hünayf (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I used to go through hardships and difficulties due to my haircut, and I used to make many ablutions. Finally, I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about his situation. They said: It is sufficient for you to make wudu alone because of it. ) O Messenger of Allah! How will the mezî touch my dress? I asked. They ordered that. A handful of water is enough for you to sprinkle (wash) the place where you see the pasture touched by your clothes.)
546-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhu): He arrived at Ubay bin Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh), accompanied by Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh). When Ubay (radiyallahu anh) went out (to meet) with them: I found meziz. Thereupon, he said, I washed my genital organ and made ablution. Upon his speech, Umar (radiyallahu anh) asked him: Is it enough to take it? she asked. When Ubay said yes, Umar (radiyallahu anh) asked him: Did you hear from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) that wudu is sufficient? Ubay (radiyallahu anh) said: )
547-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: After the accident, he went out and washed his face and hands up to his wrists. Then he slept. )
548-) - ...
549-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to make wudu for every (obligatory) prayer. We used to perform all (obligatory) prayers with one ablution. "
550-) - "... According to what is reported from Burayda (bin Al-Husayn (radiyallahu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to perform ablution for every (obligatory) prayer. When Mecca was conquered, the obligatory prayers were performed. He performed all of them with one ablution.)
551-) - “... According to what was reported from Al Fadl bin Mubashshir (radiyallahu anh), he said: When he saw Jabir bin Abdillah performing a few (obligatory) prayers with one ablution, I asked him: What is this? I asked. He replied: I saw the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). That's how he did it. I will do as the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did. -"
552-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Gutayf Al-Huzeli (radiyallahu anh), he said: bin Omar bin Al-Khattab (radiyallahu anhum) was sitting in his place in the Masjid. When it was time for the (noon) prayer, he got up, made wudu and prayed. Then he sat back down. When it was time for the afternoon prayer (although he had ablution), he performed ablution again and prayed. Then he took his seat. When it was time for the evening prayer, when he got up (again) and returned to his place after performing the prayer, I asked him: May he make you one of the righteous, is it obligatory to perform ablution at every obligatory prayer time? Is it circumcision? I asked. He said to me: did you look at me and what I did? she asked. I said: Yes, he said: If I had made wudu for the morning prayer, I could have performed all the (daily) prayers with it as long as my wudu was not broken. However, I heard Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: If he performs ablution after making wudu, he will have ten good deeds. ) I really liked these good deeds, he said. "
553-) - “... According to what is reported from Abbad bin Tamim's uncle (Abdullah bin Zayd bin Asim) (radiyallahu anhuma), he said: . (= It was asked if the prayer was invalidated.) Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A person should not leave the prayer unless he smells smells or hears a sound. )
554-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked about the verdict of the suspicion of breaking the wudu during the prayer. The Messenger of Allah said: "The person who performs it should not leave the prayer unless he hears a sound or smells a smell.)"
555-) - “... . According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), he is himself. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (About must be made only because of sound or smell.)
556-) - “... According to what is reported from Muhammad bin Amr bin Ata (radiyallahu anh), I saw Saib bin Yazid smelling his clothes and asked him: Why did you have to smell that dress? I asked, he said. Saib said: I heard Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “It is only necessary because of smell or hearing. )
557-) - “... Abdullah bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) reportedly said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about the water in the lake, where animals and wild animals come one after another, he said: when it reaches it, nothing makes it najis. ) ...
559-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), he himself; Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When it reaches two or three slaves, nothing will make it najis. ) ...
561-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): The condition of the pools between Mecca and Medina where predatory animals, dogs and donkeys come from, and the cleanliness of them. The ruling on doing (ablution, ghusl, removal of impurity) was asked. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied, 'The water they carry in the bellies of the animals belongs to them. The remaining water is for us. It can be used in the tavern. )
562-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhum), he said: We arrived at a lake. And when we came across a donkey supply in the lake, we hesitated to take water from the lake. Finally, when Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) visited us, nothing pollutes the water. ) commanded. Thereupon, we took water, drank it and carried it. "
563-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Umama Al-Bahili (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Nothing makes water impure. However, anything that overpowers the smell, taste and color of water renders it impure. )
564-) - “... According to what is reported from Lübâbe binti'l-Haris (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), he said: Ali's son Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) had her in the lap of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Me: O Messenger of Allah! I said give me your dress (so I can wash it) and put on another dress. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Only water is sprinkled because of the child’s waistline. It is also necessary to wash the bewlin of a girl child. )
565-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she said: A little boy who had not eaten yet was brought to (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The child bathed in the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) clothes. -
566-) - “... Umm Qays bint Mihsan (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) reportedly said: I brought my son, who had not eaten yet, to the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The child bathed in the clothes of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) asked for water and sprinkled water on the place where it was poured. )
567-) - “... (Hazrat-i) Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) said the following according to what is reported: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said about the baby’s breast that sucks milk: Water is sprinkled on the baby’s waist. The girl's baby is washed. ) ...
569-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu's-Samh (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was the servant of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Hasan or Hüseyin (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) was brought. The child brought to his blessed breast. Those present wanted to wash that place. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Sprinkle water. Because the girl's baby is washed. Because of the boy's bewlin, water is sprinkled.)
570-) - “... Umm Kürz (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) reportedly said the following: Who does not eat) Water is sprinkled on the bevline of a boy. The girl's baby is washed. )
571-) - "... According to what is narrated from Anas (bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh)): An Arab prayed in the mosque. Some of the congregation quickly jumped towards him (to prevent him). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Don’t be discouraged (= let him finish his work. )). Then he asked for a bucket of water. He poured it on the ground. "
572-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A'rabî entered the mosque. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) was sitting. Arabi: Oh my God! He told me, forgive Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and forgive no one while he forgives us both. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) smiled and said: You narrowed something that was really wide. (= You wanted to narrow down the divine forgiveness)) said. Then, when the man returned and reached one side of the mosque, he spread his feet and bowed. Later, when A'rabî realized his guilt, he got up and said: May my father and mother be sacrificed for you. He said (have mercy) on me. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did not scold him and did not hesitate. Then (to the 'Arabi): It cannot be performed in this masjid. This was done only for the remembrance of Allah and for prayer. ) commanded. He then ordered that a bucket full of water be brought. It was poured on A'rabî's bevli.
573-) - “... According to what is reported from Wasile bin al-Eska' (radiyallahu anh), he said: A'rabi came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: My God! Have mercy on me and Muhammad, and do not make anyone a partner of your mercy on us. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Shame on you. Or be veil. You narrowed down something that was really wide. ) commanded. The narrator said: Arabi opened his feet and started to feed. The Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said hey (=don't) to Arabi. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Let go. ) commanded. Then he asked for a bucket full of water and poured it on the bevlin. "
574-) - “... According to what is narrated from Umm Veledi (radiy-Allâhu anhum) of Abdurrahman bin Awf's son Abraham, he asked Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): 'I am a woman who stretches her skirt. I walk on impure ground.' Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) replied: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The clean place that comes after the ground cleans that skirt. )
575-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: To Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) O Messenger of Allah! It was asked, "We want to go to the mosque, but we step on the dirty road (while walking)," (the ruling on this). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said; one part of his face cleans the other part. )
576-) - “... According to what is reported from Bani Abdi'l-Eshhel (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said the following: He said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam): Indeed, there is an impure road between my (home) and the mosque. I asked (the verdict of this). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked: There is a clean road after the road (isn't there?). I said: Yes (there is). Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): This clean road corresponds to that dirty road.)”
577-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): When he was junub, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) met him on one of the roads to Medina (-i Münevvere), Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) He sneaked away from there. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) investigated him. When Abu Huraira (made his ghusl) came, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) asked him, "Where were you, O Abu Huraira?" and he said: O Messenger of Allah! You met me when I was junub. He replied, "I didn't see it right to sit in your presence unless I took my ablution." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is not najis. )
578-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe (bin Yeman) (radiyallahu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) went out. He met me when I was junub. Upon this, he changed my way immediately and came after making ghusl and asked me: What happened?). I replied: I was junub. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): A Muslim is not najis. )
579-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Maymun (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I asked Sulayman bin Yesar (radiy-Allâhu anh) whether we would wash all the clothes he had hit or the places where the semen had touched. Solomon (radiyallahu anh) replied: Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said: Semen would hit her (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) dress. She would wash the semen from her dress. Then he went out to prayer in that dress. At that time, I saw the washing work on the dress. )
580-) - “... According to what was reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she said: I rubbed the semen from the dress of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) with my own hands many times. )
581-) - “... According to what is reported from Hemmâm bin Al-Harith (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Someone was a guest of Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anh). Hazrat Aisha. (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) ordered that a yellow sheet be given to the guest. While the guest was sleeping in this sheet, he was ashamed to send the sheet even though it was a result of the eczema and sent the sheet after soaking the whole sheet in water and washing it. It was enough for him to rub it with his own finger. I rubbed the semen from the dress of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) many times with my finger. ) commanded. "
582-) - “... According to what was reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she said: I know that I found the semen from the dress of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and scraped it off. )
583-) - “... According to what is reported from Muawiya bin Sufyan (radiyallahu anh): To his sister Umm Habiba (radiyallahu anha), who was the wife of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): Would he pray in the clothes he used to have sexual relations with? she asked. Umm Habîbe said: When there was no impurity on the dress (she used to pray in that dress) "
584-) ... According to what is reported from Abu'd-Darda' (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came out with water dripping from his blessed head, came to us and led us in prayer in a single dress. She threw one side of the dress she was wrapped around her right shoulder, under her left arm, and the other edge over her left shoulder, tied it under her right arm and tied the ends on her chest. When he returned (after praying), Omar bin Al-Khattab said: O Messenger of Allah! You make us pray in a dress? (He wanted to learn the decree.) Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I pray in one dress and in that dress. ) I mean, I had sexual intercourse. ) commanded. "
585-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A man asked the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the ruling of praying in clothes with which he had sexual contact. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (He can do it all the time.) However, when he sees something on a dress, he cannot do it until he washes it. ) "
586-) - “... According to what is reported from Hemmâm bin al-Harith (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), he said: bin Abdillah (Al-Beceli (radiy-Allâhu anh) broke his small ablution and then made ablution and leaned over his knuckles. He was asked: Do you do this? He said: What is stopping me from doing this even though I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) doing it? 'ud's friends) liked Jarir's hadith very much because Jarir's conversion to Islam was before the descent of the 6th verse of the chapter of al-Maida.
587-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzayfa (bin al-Yeman (radiyallahu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed ablution and wiped over his loins.'
588-) - “... According to what is reported from Mughira bin Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh): (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) went out to break his ablution. Mugîre followed him with a canteen containing water. After the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) had fulfilled his needs, he (come) performed ablution and wiped over the groves. "
589-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): Sa'd bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh) saw that he was anointing over his lofts and said: Indeed (how) do you do this? (He found this act strange by saying) Then the two of them gathered together next to Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) and told Sa'd (radiyallahu anh) to my brother's son (Ibn-i Omar) about anointing Omar (radiyallahu anh). Give a fatwa, he said, then Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: While we were with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), we used to wipe over our meshes. We see no harm in doing so. ) and then Ibn-i Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) asked: Even if the person comes from breaking the wudu (Can he anoint?), Omar (radiy-Allâhu anh) replied: Yes. )
590-) - “... Sahl es-Saidi. According to what is reported from (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) anointed over the meshes and ordered us to anoint over the meshes. "
591-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey. He said (Is there any water?) (he asked for water, and when the water was prepared), he performed ablution and wiped over his penthouses. Then he caught up with the army and led them in prayer. "
592-) - “... Burayda (bin al-Husayb) (radiyallahu anh) reported that he said: He sent a pair of black and plain mesti to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) as a gift. He also wore them. Then he made wudu and rested on them. "
593-) - “... According to what is reported from Mughir bin Shu'ba (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wiped over and under the mest. "
594-) - “... According to what was narrated from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed by a man who was making ablution and washing the mascots (on his feet). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) forbade him to wash his lofts with his blessed hand. pointing as if to say: You are commanded only to anoint. ) said, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, by drawing lines with his fingers, pulling from the tips of his toes to the joint of his legs with his blessed hand. "
595-) - “... According to what is reported from Shureyh bin Hani' (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I asked Hadrat Aisha about the issue of anointing over lofts. Me: Go to Ali and ask him. Because He knows this better than I do. He used to travel with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). ) said. Thereupon, I came to Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) and asked him about anointing. Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered us to wipe for one day and one night for a resident and three days and three nights for a guest. "
596-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyma bin Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) appointed a three-day period for the guest to wipe over the mests. If the questioner had continued with his question (if he had asked for the duration to be increased), the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) would have made the duration five. )
597-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyma bin Sabit (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The time for the guest to wipe over him is three days. ) I think: «..... and Three nights..... ) he commanded. "
598-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah! What is the anointing period over the mestler? they asked. It is three days, together with its nights. For a resident, too, a day is a night. )
599-) - “... According to what was narrated from Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: ve sallam) made it permissible as a license.
600-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ubayy bin Imare (radiyallahu anh) in his house, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed towards both qiblas (Ka'ba and Masjid al-Aqsa'): He asked Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Shall I wipe over him? Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Yes, he said.) Ubayy (radiy-Allâhu anh) asked: “One day? )) ordered. Ubayy (radiy-Allâhu anh) asked: And three days (or?) and he finally delivered up to seven days (asking the verdict). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) also said: (And you can anoint as long as it appears to you).
601-) - “... According to what is reported from Ukbe bin Amir al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh): He came to Omar bin El-Khattab (radiyallahu anh) from Egypt. Hadrat 'Umar (radiyallahu anh) asked him: How many days have you not taken off your penthouses? He replied, "From Friday to Friday," and Hazrat Umar said: "You have hit the circumcision."
602-) - “... According to what is reported from al-Mughira bin Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh): (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) wiped over his socks and shoes while making wudu. "
603-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed ablution and wiped his socks and shoes. Al-Mualla, in his own narration, said: I know what Abu Musa said "..... and his shoes..... ) but I don't know if he said otherwise. "
604-) - “... According to what is narrated from Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wiped his loincloths and turban over his head. "
605-) - "... According to what is reported from Amr (bin Umayya ed-Damrî (radiy-Allâhu anh)], he said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) anointing his turbans and his turban.
606-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Muslim (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), the deceased of Zayd bin Suhan, he said: I was with Salman (radiy-Allâhu anh). Salman (radiyallahu anh) saw a man taking off his knuckles for wudu and said to him: Wipe his turban and the front of his head. Because I saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) anointing the trestles and the turban,” he said. "
607-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I saw that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was making ablution. (Mubarak) He had a kitriyya turban on his head. (Blessed) He put his hand under the turban and supported the front of his head and did not lift the turban. "
608-) - “... According to what was narrated from Ammar bin Yasir (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), he said: Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ)'s necklace fell off during one of Ekrem's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) expeditions. Aisha (radiyallahu anha) was late to look for the necklace. (Everyone waited for her to be found.) Thereupon, Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) got angry with Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anh) for causing the people to wait for her. After a while, Allah (Azza wa Jalla) sent down the license for tayammum (with a verse). Ammar (radiyallahu anh) said, "We supported it up to our shoulders (with earth while doing tayammum) that day. Ammar (radiyallahu anh) said: After that, Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) went to Aisha (radiyallahu anh) and said: I did not know that you were so blessed. "
609-) - “... According to what is reported from Ammar bin Yasir (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), he said: We performed tayammum up to our shoulders with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). It was narrated from (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (His face has been made a mosque for me and a reason for cleansing.) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) received a necklace from her (sister) Esma (radiy-Allâhu anhâ). This necklace was lost (during a journey with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent a few people (under the leadership of Usayd bin Hudayr (radiy-Allâhu anh)) to look for the necklace. Those who went performed their prayers without wudu, as they could not find water when it was time for prayer. When they (returned) to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) they presented their situation to him. Thereupon, the verse of tayammum was revealed. Usayd bin Hudayr (radiyallahu anh) said to Aisha (radiyallahu anha): May Allah reward you with goodness. By Allah, whatever has happened to you, Allah has certainly bestowed a way out for you and made a blessing for Muslims in that matter. "
612-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdurrahman bin Ebzâ (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man came to Ömer bin al-Hatlâb (radiy-Allâhu anh) and said: I became junub and could not find water. Omar (radiyallahu anh) said: Do not pray (until you find water). Thereupon, Ammar bin Yasir (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) said: O Emire'l-Mu'minin! When you and I were on a military continent, we were both junub and could not find water (for ghusl). You did not pray. But after I rolled in the ground, I prayed. Later, when I came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) I told him about the situation (what happened to both of us). Thereupon, He said: (This was enough) for you and slammed his hands on the ground, then blew on his hands and placed them on his face with his hands and on both hands with his wrists. -"
613-) - “... According to what is reported from Al-Hakem and Salama bin Küheyl (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), two of them asked Abdullah bin Ebî Evfa (radiy-Allâhu anh) a question about tayammum and Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ) ordered Ammar (radiy-Allâhu anh) to do tayammum, saying, “After hitting the ground, he shook his hands and wiped his face. has anointed. "
614-) - “...From Ammar bin Yasir (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): While they were performing tayammum with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered Muslims. They (according to the order) struck the earth with their palms, but did not grasp anything from the earth. Then they anointed their faces once. Then they turned and slapped their palms on the ground once more and anointed their arms (this time). "
615-) - “... According to what is reported from Ata' bin Abi Rebah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): I heard the following news from Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), he said: While alive, a man He was wounded in the head, and then he was told that he had to perform a ghusl, and he also washed himself and died as a result of a cold. The incident reached the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), upon which he killed them. God kill them. Wasn't the cure for ignorance asking?) Ata': And if the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) had washed it and left the injured part of his head. ) has reached us. )
616-) - “... (One of the respected wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)) said the following from Maymuna (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): I poured ghusl for (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). He also made a ghusl from junubism. First, with his left hand, he tilted the bowl and poured water on his right hand and washed his hands together with the wrists three times. Then he poured water on the private part and washed it, then rubbed his hand on the soil. Then he took water in his mouth, sniffed and washed his face and arms three times. Behind this, he poured water on his body. After that, he changed his place and washed his feet. "
617-) - “... According to what is reported from Jumay' bin Umayr Et-Taymî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I went to Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) with my aunt and aunt, and the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)’ We asked him how he did when he made a ghusl from being jaundiced. Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) replied: After pouring water three times, she would put her hands in the pot. Then he would wash his head three times. He would then pour water on his body. Then he would stop to pray. But we wash our heads five times because of the braid. ) "
618-) - “... According to what is reported from Cubayr bin Mut'im (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: They made an argument about ghusl in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: When he came, I would pour three handfuls of water on my head. )
619-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): the man asked him a question about ghusl (due to janaba), and he replied: (Pour water on his head) several times. Then the man said: I have a lot of hair. (He wanted to explain that three times would not be enough for him) Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: The hair of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was longer and cleaner than yours. "
620-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: O Messenger of Allah! I am in a cold place. How is ghusl (because of janaba)? I asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When he comes, I will pour three handfuls of water on my head. ) he replied. "
621-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man asked him: How many times should I pour water on my head when I am junub? he asked; He himself replied: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would pour three handfuls of water on his blessed head. When the man said to him, "I have long hair," he replied, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had more and cleaner hair than yours." "
622-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would not make wudu after performing a ghusl (because of janaba). "
623-) - “... Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said: After making a ghusl from janaba, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted to warm up with me while I had not made a ghusl. "
624-) - “... Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) said: He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would have been junub. Then Buya would sleep without touching it. When he woke up, he would make ghusl. "
625-) - “... Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said: If the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) needed his wives, he would take care of them. Then he would sleep in that state without touching the water. "
626-) - “... He said from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would have been junub. Then he would sleep in that state without touching the water. "He said: I told this hadith one day, Ismail said to me: O young man! This hadith is connected with something."
627-) - “... Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: When she (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wanted to sleep as a junub, she would perform wudu like prayer. "
628-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) Ibn-i Umar (radiyallahu anhuma), (his father) Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh) told the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): he can sleep when he is junub. is it? he asked. He also said: (Yes, when he makes wudu (he can sleep)). "
629-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): he would become junub at night. He would like to sleep without making a ghusl: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered him to make wudu and then sleep. "
630-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said (i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He approaches his wife, then when he wants to approach again, he should make ablution.)
631-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas (bin Malik) (radiy-Allâhu anh), he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to go around all his wives with the intention of making a single ghusl. "
632-) - “... Anas (bin Malik) said from (radiyallahu anh): I put ghusl water for the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). He made a ghusl because of approaching all his wives in one night. "
633-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu-Râfi' (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went around all his wives in one night, and while he was wandering around, he was taking a bath next to each of them. He said to him: O Messenger of Allah! Why didn't you do a ghusl by combining this? he was asked. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (=To make a ghusl after each approach) is more rewarding, better and more cleansing. ) commanded. "
634-) - “... Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: When Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wanted to eat (something) while he was junub, he would perform ablution. "
635-) - “... Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: Can the junub sleep, eat or drink? the question was asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said: (He can do these things) when he makes wudu like prayer. "
636-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiyallahu anha): When Ekrem (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was a junub, he would wash his hands when he wanted a meal. "
637-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I went to Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh) He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came out after stopping by the toilet and meeting his needs. and he ate bread and meat with us (without ablution) and recited the Qur'an. Nothing but junubism would not have prevented him from reciting the Qur'an. )
638-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Umar (radiyallahu anhuma) reported that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: )
639-) "... (Abdullah) from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Junub and menstruating women cannot read anything from the Qur'an!)
640-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): he said; The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (Under every hair there is a junub. For this, wash the hairs and clean the skin thoroughly.)
641-) - “... From Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The time prayer, Friday prayers and paying the trust are expiation for the (minor) sins between them. ) Me : What is entrustment? I asked. They said: He has a ghusl. Because under every hair there is a junublik. )
642-) - “... Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A person who does not wash a hair from his corpse while performing a ghusl will be punished like this or that from the fire of Hell.” . He (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: That is why I was hostile towards my hair. And he shaved his hair. "
643-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha), one of the respected wives of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), she said: ) went to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and asked him about the condition of the woman who saw what the man saw in her dream. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When a woman sees water (semen), she should make a ghusl. ) commanded. Then I (to the questioner Umm Sulaym): You disgraced women, will a woman have a conflict? said. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (to me): Let him be grounded. ( = shame on you. ) If the woman does not have water, for what reason does her child resemble her?) "
644-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas (bin Malik) (radiyallahu anh): Sulaym (radiyallahu anha) asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) about the verdict of a woman who saw what the man saw in her sleep. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): If he sees it in a dream and produces semen, he has to make a ghusl. ) commanded. Thereupon, Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) (one of the wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)) said: O Messenger of Allah! Will this happen? he asked. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to him: (It happens). The male's water is dark white. The woman's water is thin yellow. Whichever of the two waters comes first or wins, the child is like its owner. ) commanded. "
645-) - “... Hawle bint-i Hakim (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) reported that he himself asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the verdict of the woman who saw what the man saw and said to the man, unless the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did it. Just as it is not necessary to make a ghusl, it is not necessary for a woman to make a ghusl unless the water is inhaled. )
647-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubayd bin Umayr (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), he said: (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) heard that Abdullah bin Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh) ordered women who were close to him to untie their veils when they made a bath and said: I am amazed at Ibn Amr. Why does he not order women to shave their hair when they make a ghusl? By Allah, I and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to make ghusl from a bowl. I wouldn't do anything more than pour water on my head three times. )
648-) - “... I heard Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) say the following from Abu's-Saib (radiy-Allâhu anhum), deceased of Hisham bin Zühre. ) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: do not wash in still, water, ) Abu's-Sâib: O Ebâ Hüreyre! How will the man do? she asked. Thereupon, Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) said: He will take the water and bathe.
649-) - “... Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stopped by a man from the Ansar and called him. The man also came out immediately, even though water was dripping from his head. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I think we hastened you.” The man replied: Yes, O Messenger of Allah. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If you are made to hurry (and you are not allowed to let the semen come out) or if you are caught by the ejaculation of the semen, you do not need a ghusl but ablution is required.” "
650-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Ayyub (Al-Ansari) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Water is necessary because of water.)
651-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (blessed), he said: Ghusl becomes wajib when their places meet (= duhul). Me and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) did this and made a ghusl. "
652-) - “... from Ubayy bin Ka'b (radiyallahu anh); He said: The judgment (= water is necessary because of semen) was a license belonging to the early days of Islam. Then we were ordered to make ghusl. "
653-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a woman sits between her four branches and enters, a ghusl becomes obligatory for both of them. )
654-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr bin Al-As (radiy-Allâhu anhum), the grandfather of Amr bin Shuayb, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: ghusl becomes wajib when the part up to the place is lost.)
656-) - “... Abu's-Samh (radiy-Allâhu anh) reportedly said: I used to serve the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). When he wants to have a ghusl: return it to me. ) commanded. I would turn my neck to him and hold the curtain for him by stretching the dress. "
657-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abdillah bin Nevfel (radiyallahu anh); He said: I asked him if the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed nafilah prayers while traveling. I couldn't find anyone who informed me about this. Finally, Abu Talib's daughter Umm Hani (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) informed me that: On the day Mecca was conquered, Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered a curtain to be lifted when they visited Mecca. The curtain was drawn on him, so he made his ghusl. Then he prayed eight rak'ahs. "
658-) - “... From Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Do not make a ghusl in the desert or on a roof that does not cover your body. Even if he doesn't see anyone, he can definitely be seen.)
659-) - “... From Abdullah bin Erkam (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (When one of you wants to break his wudu and it is time to pray, let him break his wudu first.) "
660-) - “... From Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prohibited a man from performing prayers when his wudu was short. "
661-) - "... Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Which of you should not stop praying when he feels the need to go out. )
662-) - “... From Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh) it was said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: No Muslim who is tight should stop praying unless he makes his wudu (fresh) lighten.
663-) - “... According to what is reported from Urwa bin Zubayr (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), Fatima bint Abi Hubaysh (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) told him: He came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and complained about the blood. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): (not menstruation) is a vein (blood coming from a vein). That's why you look, do not pray when the time of the mu'tad menstruation comes. He said, 'Ghusl when your period has passed, then pray for the period between two menstruation.) "
664-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), bint-i Abi Hubaysh came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “O Messenger of Allah! I am a suggestive woman. I cannot be cleansed of blood. Shall I leave the prayer? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is only the blood of a vein, it is not menstruation. When menstruation comes, stop praying, and when menstruation ends, wash your blood and pray. ) This is the hadith of Waki (radiyallahu anh). "
665-) - “... Umm Habîbe bint-i Jahsh (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: Finally, I came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to inform him of his situation and to ask for a fatwa. I found her with my sister Zaynab (the Prophet's wife) (radiyallahu anha). Umm Habîbe (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: I said: O Messenger of Allah! I said I need you. He asked: What is your need for hentah? I see long-term and great istihada. This blood prevented my prayer and fasting. What will you command me about this blood? I asked. O: Let me tell you about the property of cotton. Because it purifies the blood. ) commanded. “There is too much blood,” I said. Thereupon, he ordered a hadith similar to the hadith of the narrator Sharik (no. 625). "
666-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), (one of the Prophet's wives), she said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam): I am a reserved woman. I can't clean. (My blood does not stop.) Shall I leave the prayer? she asked. He : But stop praying as much as the days and nights you had menstruation before. Then make a ghusl and a cloth and pray. ) commanded. Abu Bakr said in his own narration: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) also said: as well as the menstrual days and nights of the month. "
667-) - "... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), bint-i Abi Hubaysh (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlallah! I am a woman with advice. I can't clean. (My blood does not stop.) Shall I leave the prayer? she asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is only the blood of a vein. It is not menstruation. When you are menstruating, stay away from prayer. Then perform ablution for each prayer, even if ghusl and blood drip on the resurrection. )
668-) ... From Adiyy bin Thabit's grandfather (radiy-Allâhu anhum): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: A woman will stop praying on her menstrual days (to be calculated according to her old custom). After that, he will make a ghusl (once), perform ablution for each prayer, fast and pray. )
669-) - “... From Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the wife of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): Umm Habîbe bint-i Jahsh (radiyallahu anha) was the wife of Abdurrahman bin Auf for seven years and was abused. He presented his condition to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Certainly, it is not menstruation, but only a vein (blood). For this reason, when the time of menstruation comes, you stop praying and when the time of menstruation is gone, make a ghusl and pray. ) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): 'After that, Umm Habiba would make ghusl for every prayer and then pray. And she used to sit in a washing tub of her sister Zaynab bint-i Jahsh (she was one of the wives of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ). It even brought the redness of the blood to the surface.' he said.
670-) - “... According to what is reported from Hamna bint-i Jahsh (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), it was mentioned in the time of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and came to Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “I am a hated person. and I was harshly mocked, he said. Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) to him. put cotton in the place where it comes out) he said. hamne Him: Indeed, blood is much more violent. “I bleed too much,” he said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Tie the leaking place tightly with a bridle-like cloth and count yourself menstruating for six or seven days every month, as ordained by Allah (for women). Then make ghusl and pray and fast for twenty-three or twenty-four days. Delay the noon obligatory (if you wish). Perform the Asr Fard at the first moment and perform a ghusl for two prayers. Delay the evening prayer. Hurry to sleep. Perform a ghusl for both of these prayers. This last shape is cuter in my opinion. )
671-) - “... Umm Qays (radiyallahu anha) said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) a question about the menstrual blood that touched the clothes. He said: Wash it with water and sidr wood dust and rub it even if it is a tongue. )
672-) - “... Asma bint-i Abi Bakr-i Siddiq (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) narrated, she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about the ruling of the menstrual blood found. He also: pour it out, rub it with fingertips and nails, squeeze and wash. Then pray in that dress. )
673-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), she said: One of us used to have her menstruation period, then when her menstrual blood touched her clothes, she poured water and rubbed it with fingertips and nails and squeezed it. would wash. He would pour water little by little and wash the part of the dress that did not touch blood. Then he would pray in that dress. "
674-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); If a woman asks herself: Should she make up the prayer (which she does not perform during her menstruation after she has cleared her menstruation)? Aisha (radiyallahu anha) asked: Are you Haruriyya? We used to see menstruation in the presence of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), then we would make ghusl (when he was clean). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) would not order us to make up prayers, he replied. "
675-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: Give it to me from the Masjid. ) Me: I said, I'm in menstruation. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Menstruation (blood) is not in your hands. ) "
676-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: "When he was in Itikaf (in the mosque) and I was menstruating (in my room), he used to extend his blessed head towards me. I used to wash and comb his head. "
677-) - “... From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) she said: When I was menstruating, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would put his blessed head on my lap and read the Qur'an. "
678-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she said: When someone is menstruating, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told him; He would order her to wear an izar during the severe period of her menstruation, and then she would give her mushar. Which of you can control your own self as the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had control over himself?
679-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: When someone was menstruating, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) would order him to wear an izar. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to give him blessings (after he was also donned an izar). "All of the Sitta Sahihs have narrated this hadith.
680-) - “... Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha) (one of the mothers of the believers) said that she said: I was under her chador with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). At that time, I saw the menstrual blood that women see. I just slipped out from under the sheets. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked: Did you see it? I said: I saw the menstrual blood that women see. Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): It is something that Allah has ordained for the daughters of Adam. ) commanded. Umm Salama said: After I escaped, I corrected my situation (= I put on my menstruation dress and took my precautions.) Then I returned. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) told me; Say, get under the sheets with me. ) commanded. Umm Salama said: Then I went under the sheet with her. "
681-) - “... According to what is reported from Muawiya bin Abi Sufyan (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: To Umm Habîbe (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (my sister): How do you deal with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) when you see blood? I asked. Umm Habîbe said: She used to start seeing the menstrual blood and tie the izar on us, which extended to the half of the thigh bones, during the severe period. Then he would lie down (in the same bed) with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). "
682-) - "... According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A person who has sex with a woman, or who has sex with a woman's dress, or who goes to an oracle and confirms what he said (Hazrat -i) He blasphemes against what was revealed to Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). )
683-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said about the person who has sexual intercourse with his wife while she is menstruating: (He gives charity with one gold or half gold.)
685-) - "... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she said: Shekel daughter Asma (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the condition of ghusl due to menstruation. wa sallam): someone performs wudu after taking his water and cidrine. performs ablution well or performs ablution perfectly. Then she pours water on her head and rubs her head firmly. Until the water reaches the bones of the head and the roots of the hair. Then he pours water on his body. Then, it is cleaned by taking a piece of cotton or cloth that has been smeared with musk. ) commanded. Esma (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): How will I be cleansed? he asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Cleanse with it. ) commanded. Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) secretly said (whispers to Esma): Rub it where the blood touched. (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: Asma (radiy-Allâhu anhâ). He also asked the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the condition of ghusl due to janubism, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: After taking his water, he performs ablution first. he takes it well or he takes his ablution perfectly. Finally, he pours water on his head and rubs his head thoroughly. Until the water reaches the bones of the head and the roots of the hair. Then he pours water into his body. ) commanded. Upon this, Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: What good women are the Ansar women. Haya does not prevent them from acquiring religious knowledge.) "
686-) - “... Aisha (radiyallahu anha)' said: When I was menstruating, I used to take most of the meat on the bone with my teeth and eat it. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took that meaty bone and put his blessed mouth where my mouth touched (he would eat from it). I would drink from the container. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would take the bowl, put his blessed mouth on the place where my mouth touched, and drink it, and I was menstruating. "According to what is reported from Anas (bin Malik) (radiyallahu anh), he said: They would not stay in a house with a menstruating woman. They would not eat or drink with them. Anas said: This situation was told to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). -u ta'ala, they also ask about women's menstruation. Say: He is a hateful filth. Therefore, he sent down the verse (do not have sexual intercourse with your women during menstruation.) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: do everything else) commanded."
688-) - “... Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) reportedly said the following: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered the courtyard of this mosque and said with his loudest voice: “The mosque is not halal for a junub man or a menstruating woman. ) commanded. "
690-) - “... from Umm Atiyya (radiyallahu anha); He said: (During the time of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) we did not consider the yellowness and turbidity of the blood as anything (in terms of preventing prayers) as nothing. According to what he said from Ayyub, from Hafsa, and from Umm Atiyya, Umm Atiyya (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) (in the time of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)) had no yellowness or blurring (in terms of preventing prayers). Bin Yahya said: In our opinion, there is priority for Vüheyb in this narration.
692-) - “... Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) reportedly said the following: In the time of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) a postpartum woman would sit for forty days (without prayer). And we covered our faces with vers (Yemen victorious plant) because of the kelf (spotless). "
693-) - “... As narrated from Anas (bin Malik) (radiyallahu anh), he said the following: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) assigned a 40-day period for a woman's place of residence if she had not been cleaned before. "
694-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Abbaş (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) said as follows: When he had intercourse with his wife while she was menstruating. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to order him to issue half a gold alms. "
695-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Sa'd (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about the ruling of eating with a menstruating woman. He said: (You can have dinner with him.)
696-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) she said: She used to pray (at night) when she was near the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) while she was menstruating. I had my Futa on me. And part of Futam was on him. "
697-) - “... According to what is narrated from Maymuna (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (wife), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed while he was menstruating, while he was wearing a futa. Some of the futan was on him and some of it was on Maymuna (radiy-Allâhu anhâ). "
698-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): (Once) the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered his room and (when he entered Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ)’s concubine was hidden. Sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Has she menstruated?" Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) replied, "Yes, she had menstruation. He ordered the concubine: cover your head). "
699-) - "... According to what was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A woman who has reached the age of menstruation does not accept the prayer (performed) without a head covering.”
700-) - “... According to what is reported from Muâza (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), a woman asked Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): “Can a woman be dyed with henna (?), and Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) replied: He replied, "We were with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) even though we were using henna, but he would not have prevented us from doing so. "
701-) - “... Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh) reportedly said: One of my bones was broken and I asked the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). He commanded me to anoint over the algebras. ) ... Abu'l Hasan bin Salama said . He informed us about a similar hadith from Ed-Deberi Abdürrazzak. "
703-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I saw the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He was carrying Hussein bin Ali (radiyallahu anhuma) on his blessed shoulder. Husayn's saliva was flowing on the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). "
704-) - “... According to what was narrated from Vâil (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I saw a bucket (water) being brought to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). After taking water from the bucket into his blessed mouth and rinsing it, he threw it into the bucket with musk or more fragrant than musk. He also sniffed water and blew his nose out of the bucket. "As reported by Mahmud bin Er-Rabî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he remembered that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) poured the water from his blessed mouth into a bucket of water taken from a well belonging to his tribe."
706-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A woman should not look at her private parts. Men should not look at their private parts.)
707-) - “... According to what was reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she said: I did not look at the body of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) or I did not see this place. "Bakir said: According to what Abu Nuaym said, the narrator who narrated the hadith from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) is the female maula of Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ).
708-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) reported that he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw that a place remained dry after performing a ghusl. Thereupon, she wet the ground, wringing her hair that was hanging over her shoulders. From his own narration: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, wringing his hair over the dry place (washing it). "
709-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: A man. He came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: I made a ghusl from janaba and performed the morning prayer. Then in the morning, I saw that a nail part of my body remained dry, said the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); If you had rubbed your hand on that ground (and thus had water flowed over that ground), it would have been sufficient for you. ) commanded. "
710-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas (bin Malik) (radiy-Allâhu anh): A man made wudu (from the top of his foot to the thumb) and left an area the size of his fingernails dry and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihihi ’alaihihi wasyah) had no water touched it. ve sallam) came to him. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him: Make your wudu well. ) commanded. "
711-) - “... According to what is reported from Umar bin Al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw a man who had made wudu and left a nail-sized area dry on his feet, and he gave him his wudu and his He ordered her to repeat her prayer. The man also returned. "
712-) - “... According to what is reported from Burayda (bin Al-Husayb) (radiyallahu anh), he said: man. He came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and asked him about the (five) prayers. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him: Pray with us for two days. ) commanded. When the sun reached its twilight (from the middle of the sky to the west), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh). Bilal (radiyallahu anh) also recited the adhan. Then he ordered. He also brought the residence for the noon prayers. Then he ordered it. He also resided for the afternoon prayer when the Sun was still high and white. Then he commanded Him. He also resided for Maghrib prayers when the sun went down. Then he commanded Him. He also resided for the night prayer at dawn. Then he commanded Him. When Oda Fecir was born, he resided for the morning prayer. On the second day, he commanded him. He also recited the adhan for noon and left the noon prayer to coolness. He also delayed it until the air got colder. Then he performed the afternoon prayer while the sun was still high. It was delayed after the time on the first day. He then performed the evening prayer before dawn. He also offered the night prayer after one third of the night had passed. He also performed the morning prayer after it was well lighted. Then he said: Where is the person who asked about their time(s)?). Adam too. -I am (here) O Messenger of Allah! When he said, He said: Its time is between the times you see.) "According to what is reported from Ibn Shihab (radiyallahu anh), he was sitting on the mattresses of Omar bin Abdul Aziz (radiyallahu anhuma), the Emir of Medina. (radiyallahu anh) delayed the afternoon prayer a bit. Thereupon, Urwa said to him: "Okay, Jibril (Alayhis Salam) came down and led the prayer as an imam for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Omar (radiyallahu anh) said to him: What is it? Know what he said, Urve said, Urve also said: I listened to Bashir bin Abi Masud. I heard him say the following: He came down and became an imam for me. I prayed with him. Then I prayed with him.
714-) - “... According to what Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) has narrated, she said: Some of the women used to perform the morning prayer together with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Then, on their way home, no one would recognize them because of the twilight. "
715-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) also perform the morning prayer. Because, no doubt, it will be a witness to the morning prayer. ) Surah Isra, verse: 78, he read the part of the verse and said: and daytime angels are present at the morning prayer.)
716-) - “... According to what is reported from Mughis bin Sumayya (radiyallahu anh), he said: I performed the morning prayer together with Abdullah bin Ez-Zubayr (radiyallahu anhuma) in the twilight. When Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh) saluted (= when we left the prayer), I (Abdullah) turned to bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhu) and asked: What is this prayer? I asked, Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): This prayer (performed with Taglis) is the prayer we performed together with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and Abu Bakr and Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma). When Umar (radiyallahu anh) was shot (during the morning prayer he led with taghlis), Osman (radiyallahu anh) prayed the morning prayer in Isfar, (when it got light), he replied. "
717-) - “... According to what is reported from Rafi' bin Hadic (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Perform the morning prayer as soon as you rise. For, there is no doubt that the reward of performing the morning prayer at that moment is greater. )
718-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to perform the noon prayer when the sun shifted (from the middle of the sky to the west).
719-) - “... According to what was narrated from Abu Barza Al-Aslemi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to perform the hejir prayer, which you call the noon prayer, when the sun (from the middle of the sky) slipped. " ..... According to what was reported from Habbab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We complained to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about the heat of the hot sand. But he did not relieve our complaint. (He also said that:) Al-Ansari has also annotated for us.
722-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We complained to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the heat of the hot sands. But it did not resolve our complaint. "
723-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When it gets intense, leave the (noon) prayer to coolness. For, no doubt, the intensity of the heat is due to the boiling of Hell. )
724-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When it gets violent, leave the noon prayer cool. Because, of course, the intensity of the heat is from the roar of hell. )
725-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Leave your prayer in coolness. Because, of course, the intensity of the heat is from the roar of hell. )
726-) - “... Al-Mughira bin Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh) reported that he said: We used to perform the noon prayer (just after zawal) in the middle and in the heat of the day, together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Then He told us: Leave his prayer to coolness. Because, no doubt, the intensity of the heat is due to the rage of Hell.) "
727-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Umar (radiyallahu anhuma) reported that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (Leave the noon prayer cool.)
728-) - “... Enes bin . According to what is reported from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: He used to perform the afternoon prayer when the sun was still high and low. The man who wanted to go to Avali after the prayer would go there when the sun was still high. "... According to what Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) is told, she said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led us the afternoon prayer while he was in my cell and his shadow had not yet risen over my cell.”
730-) - “... Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said about the disbelievers on the day of the Ditch: Just as they prevented us from performing the middle prayer, Allah set fire to their houses and graves. fill it. )
731-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Umar (radiyallahu anhuma) reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Whoever misses the afternoon prayer, it is as if his family and property were kidnapped.)
732-) - “... Abdullah (Ibn Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh) reportedly said: They kept the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) from the afternoon prayer until sunset. wa sallam): they prevented us from the middle (asr) prayer. May Allah fill their graves and houses with fire for them. "
733-) - “... According to what is reported from Rafi' bin Hadic (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was alive, we used to perform the evening prayer. Then one of us would come out of prayer and see the places where the arrows he shot fell. "... Abu Yahya al-Za'farani for us. (He also said:) Ibrahim bin Musa ascribed to us the same hadith.
735-) - “... According to what is reported from Salama bin El-Ekva' (radiy-Allâhu anh): He used to perform the evening prayer with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) when he was hidden by the (horizon) curtain. "
736-) - “... According to what is reported from Abbas bin Abdilmuttalib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: My ummah will be in fitra unless they delay the Maghrib prayer until the stars merge. )
737-) - "... According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If it were not for the fear of burdening him, I would have ordered them to delay the night prayer.) "
738-) - “... According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Had it not been for the trouble of burdening me, I would have delayed the night prayer to one-third or half of the night. ) "
739-) - “... According to what is reported from Humayd (radiy-Allâhu anh), Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) was asked: Did he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) use a ring? In Enes (radiyallahu anh): Yes. (He used a ring.) The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) delayed one night's Isha prayer until almost midnight. Then, when he led the prayer, he turned his blessed face to us and said: The people prayed and slept. Surely, as long as you wait for the prayer, you are in prayer. ) commanded. Anas (radiyallahu anh) said: The shine of his (silver) ring is still in front of my eyes. "
740-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) led us the evening prayer. Then (going home) he did not come out until after midnight. After that, he went out and led the congregation in prayer, and after the prayer: the people performed the (isha) prayer and slept. As long as you maintain the prayer, you are always in prayer (it means. ) If (people) were not weak and sick, I would have delayed delaying this prayer (Isha) to midnight.), he said. "
741-) - “... According to what Burayda (bin al-Husaym) narrated from al-Aslemi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said; We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in a war. They said: Perform the prayer early in the day. Because the deeds of a person who misses the afternoon prayer will be invalid. )
742-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked about the situation of the man who forgot the prayer because he was heedless, or who missed the prayer because he fell asleep. He also: he does it when he remembers. ) commanded. "
743-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he forgets (to offer) a prayer, he should perform it when he remembers it. )
744-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) when he returned from the Battle of Khaybar, he traveled all night, when he finally got sleepy, he stopped at midnight and went to Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh). ) save this night for you. ) commanded. Thereupon, Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) was busy performing prayers as much as was ordained for him by Allah, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and his Companions slept. As the dawn approached, Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) turned his face to fajr, leaning on the camel with his mount, then fell asleep leaning on the mount, and neither Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) nor anyone else woke up until the sun's heat hit them. The first to awaken among them was the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) jumped out of his sleep and called out: “O Bilal!!” Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: May my father and mother be sacrificed for you, O Messenger of Allah! He said, 'The one who holds your soul in His power (God) also has my soul. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Grab them by the bridles and pull away from you.” The Companions took their mounts and left for a while, then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed ablution and ordered Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) to pray. resided. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led them the morning prayer. After the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) missed the prayer: if he forgets a prayer, he should perform it when he remembers it. Because Allah Azza wa Jalla;= (Pray when you remember me) Surah Taha, verse: 14. "
745-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh), he said: They told about their faults in sleeping. One of them said: They slept until the sun came up. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is no fault in his state. The fault is only in a state of alertness. For this reason, when one of you does not perform a prayer by forgetting or falling asleep, he should pray it when he remembers it, and (perform it) on time the next day. ... (Abdullah bin Rebah, the narrator of Abu Qatada, said: Imran bin Al-Husayn listened to me while I was telling this hadith. Then he said to me: O young man! Be careful how you narrate the hadith because I am an eyewitness of the same hadith. He said: "I was with him.
747-) - “... According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A person who catches up with one rak'ah of the afternoon prayer before sunset will have reached the prayer and will have one rak'ah before the sun comes up. Whoever catches up with the rak'ah, has reached the prayer. )
748-) - "... According to what was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: A person who catches up with one rak'ah of the Fajr prayer before sunrise will have made it to the Fajr prayer and before the sun sets, he has finished the afternoon prayer. A person who catches up with one rak'ah has reached the afternoon prayer. ) ...
750-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Barza al-Aslemi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would find it worthwhile to delay the night prayer. He used to pray before sleeping and talking after Isha prayer. "Aisha (may Allah be pleased with her) narrated that she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not sleep before performing the night prayer and did not speak after the night prayer.)
752-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: That is, he has forbidden us (to speak). "
753-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reportedly said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: Do not let your (that) prayer overpower you in the name of it. For He (his name) is 'Isaiah'. And the Arabs postpone (that prayer) to the darkness of night because of the camels and give it the name (Atema). )
754-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Let them not overtake you in the name of the night prayer. ) The narrator Ibn-i Harmala (radiy-Allâhu anh) also narrated the following anecdote: (….. Because of course, his name is Isha. Because the Arabs delayed the (Isha prayer) into the severe darkness of the night because of their busyness in camels), Ateme they say. )
755-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Zayd (bin Abd-i Rabbih) (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) desired the trumpet to call to prayer and ordered the rally and the bell was made. Then (mentioned) Abdullah bin Zayd had a dream and described his dream as follows: I saw a man wearing two green clothes in my dream. He was carrying a bell. To him: O servant of Allah! Will you (are) sell that bell? said. Man: What are you going to do with it? she asked. I said: I will call him to prayer. He: Shall I not point you to something better than this bell? said. Me: What are you going to prove? I asked. The man said: You can say this, he said: Abdullah bin Zayd went out in the morning after this dream and went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) to tell him about the dream he had seen: Rasûlallah! I saw a man wearing two green dresses in my dream. He was carrying a bell.' He said and told the dream he had seen. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to the Companions: Your friend had a dream. ) (to Abdullah, who was dreaming): Go to the mosque with him and teach him the words of adhan you see. Let Bilal call too. Because his voice is louder than yours. ) commanded. Abdullah said: I went to the mosque with Bilal and started to teach him the words of adhan. He was calling with those words too. Then, when Omar bin Al-Khattab heard the call to prayer, he came up and said: 'O Messenger of Allah! By Allah, I saw in my dream the same as Abdullah saw in his dream. . Abu Ubayd said that Abu Bakr Al-Hakemi informed me that Abdullah bin Zayd Al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh) said the following poems about this dream. He brought the adhan with a herald of good news from Allah. He brought the words of good news to me.
756-) - “... According to what is reported from Salim's father (Abdullah bin Omar) (radiy-Allâhu anhum), he said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) consulted with them about the method of gathering, which put them in difficulties while going to prayer. The people talked about the trumpet, the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) did not like the trumpet because of the Jews, then the people talked about the bell. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did not like him either because of the Christians. On the night of consultation, a man named Abdullah bin Zayd (radiyallahu anh) from the Ansar and Omar bin Al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh) saw in their dreams the call to prayer. One of the Ansar came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) at night (describing his dream) and ordered Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) to make this call. Bilal (radiyallahu anh) also recited the adhan. said: Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh), in his call for the morning prayer; He added the sentence (Prayer is better than sleep). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) left this addition as it is. (radiyallahu anh): "O Messenger of Allah! I saw what Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) saw. But he acted before me," he said.
757-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Muhayriz (radiy-Allâhu anh), who was brought up as an orphan in Abu Mahzûre bin Mi'yer (radiy-Allâhu anh)'s lap: While Mahzure was preparing to send him to Damascus, Abdullah said: To Abu Mahzûre (radiy-Allâhu anh), O Uncle! I'm on my way to Damascus. And no doubt, I will be asked about your call to prayer, I said. (Râvi Abdülaziz said) Abdullah informed me that Abu Mahzûre (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I was on the road in a group of ten soldiers. We were somewhere on the road. The muezzin of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) called the adhan for prayer in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). We heard the muezzin's voice even though we turned away from him. Thereupon, we chanted the adhan, mocking and shouting at him. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) heard (our voice) and sent a group to us. Those who came made us sit in His presence. He asked: Which one of you is the person I heard loudly? All the people pointed to me and spoke the truth. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) let them all go and detained me and said to me: call the adhan. I got up too. At that time, I hated nothing as much as I hated the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the adhan he commanded me. Finally, I stood in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) personally inspired me with the words of adhan and said: Say: Then he said to me: Raise your voice (while reading this). When I finished the call to prayer, he called me and gave me a bag containing some silver. Then he placed his hand on the front of Abu Mahzûre's (radiy-Allâhu anh) head and ran it over his face, breasts and liver. Finally, the hand of Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) reached the navel of Abu Mahzûre (radiy-Allâhu anh). Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: May he bless you, and may his blessings be upon you. ) commanded. After that, I said: Messenger of Allah! I said (Did you order me to call the adhan in Mecca?) He: I ordered you. ) commanded. Now, the hatred I felt towards the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) completely disappeared. And all of them turned into love for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Then I went to Attab bin Esid (radiy-Allâhu anh), the governor of Mecca of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). And due to the order of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), I called the adhan for prayer while Attab was present. (Abd al-Aziz) said: Those who caught up with Abu Mahzûre ascribed this hadith as Abdullah bin Muhayriz informed me. "
758-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Mahzure (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) taught me the adhan as nineteen words and the residence as seventeen words. Adhan Iqamah is seventeen words.
759-) - “... According to what is reported from Sa'd (al-Karazî (radiy-Allâhu anh), the muezzin of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)': (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) He ordered him to put two fingers in his ear when he was reading the adhan: he will raise your voice even more.) )
760-) - “... According to what was narrated from Abu Juhayfa (radiyallahu anh), he said: I came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in Al-Abtah. He was under a red tent. After a while, Bilal (radiyallahu anh) came out and recited the adhan. At his prayer, he turned and put two fingers in his ears. "
761-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Umar (radiyallahu anhuma) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "There are two characteristics of Muslims who are worn around their necks. This is the prayer and fasting of Muslims. )
762-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: (radiyallahu anh) would never delay the adhan from the time. His residence sometimes delayed a little. "
763-) - “... According to what is reported from Osman bin Ebil-As (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The last advice (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave me was that I should not follow a muezzin who was paid for the call to prayer. "
764-) - “... Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) reportedly said: He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered me to make taswib in the morning adhan. And he forbade me to glorify in the night prayer. " " According to what Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) is told, he came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and wanted to inform him of the prayer (time), but Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) was told: he is asleep. Thereupon Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: Prayer is better than sleep, prayer is better than sleep; Thereupon, this sentence was placed in the morning prayer and thus the (tasvib) situation was stabilized. "
766-) - “... According to what is reported from Ziyâd bin al-Harith as-Sudaî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey. He ordered me. I recited the adhan, then Bilal (radiyallahu anh) wanted to reside. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): His brother recited the Adhan. Whoever recites the adhan will reside.) "
767-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he calls the adhan, say the same as what he said. )
768-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Habîbe (radiy-Allâhu anh), one of the wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was with him during the day and night, when he heard the muezzin’s call to prayer. Umm Habîba (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) heard from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) that the muezzin was repeating what he recited.
769-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When you hear his voice, say as the muezzin said. )
770-) - “... According to what is reported from Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he heard his voice, who said: (I also bear witness that Allah There is no other deity worthy of worship. He is One. He has no partner. And I testify that Muhammad. He is His servant and Messenger. I have chosen Allah as Lord, Islam as religion and Muhammad as Prophet. I am satisfied with this. ) sin is forgiven. )
771-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (Ansari) (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: O Allah, the Lord of the prayer and this perfect invitation that will stand upright until I hear your voice. Give Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) means and virtue; And send him to Mahmud, the position you promised him.' There is no one who says his prayer that it will not be wâjib to intercede for him on the Day of Judgment. )
772-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdurrahman bin Abdillah bin Abdirrahman bin Ebî Sa'saa (radiyallahu anhum): (Abdullah) Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh) said to me: He is in Abu Said's lap. had grown. ) Abdullah!) When you are in the countryside, say the adhan aloud. Because I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: There is no jinn, man, tree, or stone that hears that he will not bear witness to it (on the Day of Judgment). ) were narrated by Bukhari and Nasai with a slight difference in wording.
773-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Forgiveness is received as much as the end of his voice (or) the place where his voice reaches. Everything wet and dry asks forgiveness for him. Twenty-five hasenes are written for the person who is present at the congregational prayer he has called, and his sins between two prayers are forgiven. )
774-) - “... From Muawiya bin Sufyan (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: On the Day of Judgment, people will have the longest necks. )
775-) - “... According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Let your elite call the adhan for you, and let those who remember the Qur'an the most lead you in prayer. .)" ... According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A man who has served as a muezzin for seven years at his will will be acquitted from the fire of hell.)
777-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, Since he is reciting the Adhan, 60 hasenes are written for him every day and 30 for each residence. ) said: Qurayb (98) informed me from Ibn Abbas radiyallahu anhuma (who said): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) slept one night and even snored. After that, he prayed (without wudu'). It is narrated that Ibn Abbas said this as follows: He lay down and snored, then got up and prayed. Ibn Abdillah al-Madini said:) Then Sufyan narrated this hadith for us many times, either long or short, from Amr, then from Qurayb, and from Ibn Abbas. Ibn Abbas said: I stayed with my aunt Maymuna for one night. When it was part of the night, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) got up and made light ablution from a small hanging overalls. -Amr said that this ablution was very light and with very little water- And he stood up and stood for prayer. After making ablution as he did, I came and stood on his left side to pray. -Maybe Sufyan said "Şimalihi" which means his left again.- The Prophet changed my place; took me to the right. Then he prayed as much as Allah wished. After that he lay down and slept; even snored. Then the munadi (i.e. muezzin) came to him and informed him that the time for prayer had come. After that, the muezzin got up and went to pray in the company of the Prophet. The Prophet (again) led the prayer even though he did not make wudu. (Sufyan ibn Uyayna said:) We said to Amr ibn Dinar: People say that the Messenger of Allah sleeps, but his heart does not sleep; (say what)? we asked. Amr: I heard from Ubayd ibn Umayr: He was saying that the dreams of the prophets are revelation. After this statement, Ubayd said, "I see you strangling you in my dream..." (Saffat: 37/102)
778-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said the following: They wanted to inform about the prayer times. Thereupon, Bilâl (radiy-Allâhu anh) was commanded to recite the adhan in double words and the iqama in single words. -"
779-) - “... As narrated from Anas (bin Malik) (radiyallahu anh), he said the following: (radiyallahu anh) was commanded to recite the adhan in double and the iqama in single words. )
780-) - “... According to what is reported from Sa'd (al-Karazî (radiyallahu anh), the muezzin of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)', he said: His residence (words) were also one."
781-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Rafi' (radiy-Allâhu anh), the maula of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he said: I saw him reciting the adhan by repeating the adhan sentences in twos and reciting the iqama sentences once. "
782-) - “... Abu'sh-Shasa (Sulaym bin al-Aswad) (radiyallahu anh) reported that he said: We were sitting in the mosque with Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh). The muezzin recited the adhan (for the afternoon). After the adhan, a man got up from the mosque and left arrogantly. Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) followed him with his eyes until he left the mosque. Then Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) said: This man has undoubtedly rebelled against Abu'l-Qasim (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). )
783-) - "... According to what is reported from Osman (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If a person who goes out after the adhan is called, does not go out for some reason and does not want to return, that person is a hypocrite. )
784-) - “... From Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh). It is reported that he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saying: Whoever builds a mosque in which the name of Allah is mentioned, Allah will build a house for him in Paradise. )
785-) - "... According to what is reported from Osman bin Affan (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saying: Whoever builds a mosque for Allah, Allah will have its like in Paradise for him. it builds. )
786-) - "... Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh) reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever builds a mosque for Allah from his own property, Allah will make a house for him in Paradise. it does. )
787-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Whoever builds a masjid like a grouse's nest or a smaller mosque for Allah, Allah will build a house for him in Paradise.)
788-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The Hour will not come until they are proud of each other for their mosques. )
789-) - “... According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I know that you will raise your mosques after me, just as they raised their synagogues and the Christians raised their churches. )
790-) - “... According to what is reported from Umar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Every tribe that has become corrupted tries to decorate their mosques with gilding. (There has not been a tribe like this.)
791-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh). He said: The place of the mosque of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in Medina belonged to the Banu Najjar tribe. There were date palm trees and the graves of the polytheists. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to that tribe: Give me the place in exchange for money. ) commanded. And they said: We will not take any money for this place. Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) started to build a mosque there. The Companions were also giving him (material). And the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was saying: Be it. real life is the life of the hereafter. (O Allah) Forgive the Ansar and Muhajirs.) Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray at the place where it reached its time before he built a mosque. "
792-) - “... According to what is reported from Osman bin Abi'l-As (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered the people of Taif to replace their idols with a Taif mosque. "
793-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Umar (radiy-Allâhu ahuma) is reported to have been asked about the provision of gardens (praying in the gardens) into which human invertebrates are thrown, and he replied as follows: you can make. ) Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh) said this hadith by referring to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam).
794-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: And apart from the hammam, the whole of the earth is a masjid. ) "... (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reportedly said the following: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prohibited performing prayers in seven places: In the garbage dump, in the slaughterhouse, in the cemetery, in the middle of the road, in the bath, in the camel beds, and in the Kaaba. i Muazzama) on its roof. " ..... Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh) reported that he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is a place. It is not permissible to pray there: Baytullah above, cemetery, garbage dump, slaughterhouse, bath, camel bed and street.)
797-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The following things should not be done: A mosque cannot be built, a weapon cannot be pulled out, A bow can not be tied to a bow and released there, arrows cannot be shot there, crush the one through which raw meat is passed, no one can be beaten as a hadd there, no one can be punished for retaliation there, and that place cannot be acquired as a bazaar. ) "
798-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhum): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He forbade reading. "
799-) - “... According to what was narrated from Wasile bin al-Aska (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “We want you to buy your crazy, sell, argue, raise your voice, and execute your hadd punishments from your mosques.” keep away. Make ablution places near the doors of your mosques. And . Incense your mosques with incense on Fridays. )
800-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was alive, we were sleeping in the mosque. "
801-) - “... Kays bin Tihfa (radiy-Allâhu anh) was from the Companions of the Suffa. He himself said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to us: (Go (from the mosque to my house)). Thereupon, we went to Aisha's room and ate and drank. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told us: You can sleep here. You can go to the mosque if you wish. ) commanded. Kays bin Tıhfe: We too. We said no, we will go to the mosque; he said. "
802-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Dharr-i Gifari (radiyallahu anh), he said: I said: O Messenger of Allah! What was the first mosque built on earth? I asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (The Masjid is Haram). Abu Dharr said: Me: Then which one? I asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Then it will be Masjid Aqsa.” Me: How much time is there between these two mosques? I asked. He said: (Forty years. After that, the earth is a place of prayer for you. Pray wherever it's time for you.) "
803-) - “...From Mahmud bin er-Rabî' al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh), who remembers that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sprayed water on his face from a bucket (his blessed mouth) in a well belonging to them, and he said: As reported by Itbân bin Malik as-Sâlimî (radiy-Allâhu anh), who participated in the Battle of Badr with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and was the imam of the Bani Salim tribe to which he was a member, Itban (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: He came to the Prophet and said: Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)! My eyesight is really weak. (When it rains) a flood comes between me and my people's mosque and it will be difficult for me to cross it. If you're a man, you've lost your face. Then send Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and set up a mosque for me in my house. “I will pray there,” he invited her to his house. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) also came and did what he said. "
805-) - “... As narrated from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: One of my uncles cooked food for the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and told the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to eat and to eat. “I want you to pray,” he said. Anas (radiyallahu anh) said: Then the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) came to his house and there was one of these mats in the house. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered (to prepare) one side of the house. Immediately the place was swept and lightly watered. Then the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) stopped to pray. We also prayed with him. "Abdillah bin Maje said: Fahl: It is a resurrection that has turned black.
806-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever removes something that is not suitable for being in a mosque, Allah will find a house in Paradise for him. does.)"
807-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered that masjids (or) prayer places be built in neighborhoods, and that they should be kept clean and perfumed. )
808-) - “... According to what was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered that mosques in neighborhoods (or) prayer places in houses should be united, and that they should be kept clean and perfumed. )
809-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: The first person who lit a lamp was Tamim ed-Dari (radiyallahu anh). "
810-) - “... According to what is reported from Humayd bin Abdirrahman bin Avf (radiy-Allâhu anh): Hurayra and Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) gave him the following news: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had phlegm on the wall of the mosque. He saw it and scraped it with a pebble he took in his hand, then said: When someone produces phlegm, he should not throw it either in front of him or to his right. Spit on your left or under your left foot. ) "The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) saw a phlegm on the qibla wall of the mosque. Upon this, he became angry. In fact, his blessed face turned red. A little later, a woman from the Ansar came and scraped it and put halûk on it. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: what a beautiful thing.) he said.
812-) - "... According to what was reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: (One day) while leading the congregation's prayer, he saw phlegm on the qibla wall of the mosque, and when he came out of the prayer he said: When he is in prayer, Allah (the qibla) will be on the side his face is facing. For this reason, do not let any of you throw phlegm on the side of your face while you are praying.)
813-) - “... According to what is reported from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) scraped a spit on the qibla wall of the mosque. "
814-) - “... According to what is reported from Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) after performing the (morning) prayer (m), a man said: Is there anyone who (sees) the red camel? said. Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): You can't find it. Because masjids were built only to be used for certain works. ) commanded. "
815-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhum): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Nehiy ordered. "
816-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saying: Whoever hears the man who is looking for a lost man should say: May Allah not give him back to you. . Because, of course, mosques were not built for this. ) "
817-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: You cannot find any place (to pray) other than sheep pens and camel beds, pray in sheep pens and do not pray in camel beds. ) "
818-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin al-Mugaffel al-Muzeni (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Pray in sheepfolds and not in camel beds. Because camels were created from devils.)
819-) - “... According to what is reported from Sebere bin Ma'bed al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Prayers are not performed in their beds and prayers are performed in the sheep pen. )
820-) - “... According to what is reported from Fatima (radiy-Allâhu anha), the daughter of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), he said: When he entered the mosque, he would say: by name. Peace be upon the Messenger of Allah. my god! Forgive my sins and open the doors of your mercy to me. ) "When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) came out of the masjid, he would say: by name. Peace be upon the Messenger of Allah. O Allah! Forgive my sins and open the doors of your fadli for me.) "
821-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Humayd es-Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Let him greet the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) when he enters the mosque. Then let him say: (O Allah! Open the doors of your mercy to me.) and when he comes out, let him say: (O Allah! I wish you from your favor.)) "
822-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he enters the mosque, let him greet the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and say: ' my god! Open for me the doors of your mercy.' And when he comes out, he should greet the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and say: Protect me from the devil, the racim. ')
823-) - "... According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "After a good wudu', someone goes to the masjid with the intention of praying and not leaving the house for any purpose other than prayer. When he walks straight, with every step he takes until he enters the mosque, Allah raises him one degree and lowers a mistake from himself. When he enters the mosque, he is in prayer as long as the prayer prevents him. )''
824-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When the residence is brought, do not come to it by running, but by walking. Do not leave your peace and dignity. Pray as much as you can (with the imam). Complete (yourself) what you failed to reach. )
825-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: Shall I show you?) Companions: Show, O Messenger of Allah! they said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “To make wudu completely despite difficulties, to take many steps towards the mosques, and to wait for the next prayer after one prayer.” "
826-) - “... Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh) reportedly said: If he is happy to meet Allah as a Muslim tomorrow, he should keep his five daily prayers at the place where the adhan is called. This is because these prayers are among the sunnahs of guidance, and undoubtedly Allah has made the sunnahs of huda (= guidance) legitimate for your Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Surely, if each of you had prayed in his own house, you would have abandoned the Sunnah of your Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). And if you had abandoned the Sunnah of your Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), you would certainly have gone astray. By Allah, I know us (companions) that no one would lag behind the congregation except hypocrites whose hypocrisy is known. By Allah, I know who is brought to the masjid by being held between two people until he comes to the right. There is no one who performs his ablution in a clean and beautiful manner, goes to the mosque, prays in it, and Allah does not raise him one degree with every step he takes and forgives him a sin with every step he takes. "
827-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he recites the following prayer after leaving his house to go to prayer, Allah turns to him with His mercy and seventy thousand angels ask forgiveness for his sins: I want. And I'm asking You for the right of my walk. Because I did not leave (the house) to be arrogant or boastful, and neither to see nor hear. And I came out to avoid Your anger and to seek Your consent. Therefore, I ask You to protect me from Hellfire and to cover my sins. Surely, no one can cover sins except You. ) "
828-) - “... According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Those who walk to mosques a lot (times) are those who indulge a lot in Allah's mercy. ) "
829-) - “... According to what is reported from Sahl bin Sa'd es-Saidi (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Let those who walk many times in their darkness (to the mosques) rejoice in the full light on the Day of Judgment. ) "Hakim also narrated the hadith and said it was authentic. It was narrated by Ibn Huzeyme and Beyhaki.
830-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Give the good news of those who walk to the masjids many times with the full light on the Day of Judgment. )
831-) - "... From Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Those who are farthest from the Masjid have a greater reward (according to the degree of distance).) "
832-) - “... From Ubay bin Ka'b (radiyallahu anh): He said: There was a man from the Ansar. His house was the farthest house from Madinah (masjid). However, he would never miss performing prayers with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Ubayy (radiyallahu anh) said: I felt sorry for him and said: O Filan! If you bought a donkey, it would protect you from the fierce heat. “He would hold his foot high from getting hurt by a stone and protect him from the venomous beasts of the ground,” I said. The man said, "By Allah, I don't like my house being next to Muhammad's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) house." Ubay said: I was taken by the man's word. I even went to the house of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and told him what he had said. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) summoned the man and asked him. The man also mentioned to him the same as what he told me and told him that he hoped for reward by following (the steps he took). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him: There is for you (thawab) that you are hiding and hoping for. ) commanded. " ". . . According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Bani Selime tribe wanted to leave their house (which was far from the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) mosque) and come near the mosque. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did not want them to leave the surrounding of Medina empty (by evacuating these houses that protected Medina). And the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to them: Bani Selim! Will you not take into account the traces of your steps (while coming and going to the mosque)? Thereupon, they settled in their place. " ..... (Abdullah) Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh) said: The Ansar's houses were far from the mosque. They wanted to come closer. Thereupon, he said: (And we write what they sent from the front and their works.) Yasin ; 12 verses were revealed. Ibn-i Abbas said: They also stayed (in their houses).
835-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The prayer he prays in congregation (in the mosque) (the reward for him) is the prayer he offers in his house and in the bazaar. It is twenty-odd degrees more than (the reward of Allah). )
836-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The superiority of the prayer you perform over the prayer that one of you offers alone is twenty-five juz. )
837-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The text of the hadith narrated by Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh) as merfu is as follows: (The congregational prayer is twenty-five degrees better than the individual prayer.) The text of the hadith in the hadith by Dawud is as follows: A congregational prayer is equivalent to twenty-five prayers (individually). The important feature in Dawud's narration is the use of the word prayer instead of degree and juz'.
838-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The prayer offered in congregation is twenty-seven times higher than the prayer offered by a man alone. ) "
839-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubayy bin Ka'b (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The prayer offered in congregation is twenty-four or twenty-five degrees higher than the prayer offered by a man alone. ) was also narrated by Ahmad, Abu Dawud, Nesai, Ibn-i Huzeyme, and Ibn-i Hibban. Yahya bin Muin and Zuhri stated that the hadith is authentic.
840-) - "... Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I so desired that I would order prayers to be performed so that residence could be brought. Then I will order a man to lead the people in prayer. After this order, I will take a few men with bundles of wood with them to the mob who did not come to the congregation (without excuses) and burn their houses on them with fire. )
841-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Ummi Maktum (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported that he said: I said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): I am a mourner, but a person whose house is far from the mosque. . I don't have a backup to help me and take me to the mosque. (For me not to come to the congregation) Can you find a license? The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) asked: Do you hear the adhan (sound)? Me: Yes, I said. He: I can't find a license for you. ) commanded. "
842-) - “... (Abdullah) from Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The prayer of one who hears his voice and does not go there (without an excuse) will not be (acceptable).” ) "
843-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Abbas and Ibn-i Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhum), they heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saying the following on the pulpit trees; Some tribes will stop leaving the congregations or Allah will seal their hearts. Then they will surely be among the heedless. ) " ". . . According to what is reported from Usama bin Zayri (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Some men will give up on leaving the congregation. Or surely I will burn their houses.)
845-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) she said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If the people knew the virtues in the congregations of night and morning prayers, they would come to the mosque (for them) even if they retire.
846-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh) he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The most difficult prayers for hypocrites are night prayers and morning prayers. If they had known the reward in these, they would have come to the mosque for these two prayers, even if they retire. ) "
847-) - “... According to what is reported from Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to say, "If he prays in congregation in the mosque for forty nights and does not miss the first rak'ah of the night prayer during this period, Allah will write that person free from the fire of Hell with it. )
848-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh) he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When one of you enters the mosque, as long as the prayer prevents him, he will be in prayer (as if it were). And as long as one of you does not leave the place where he is praying, does not break his ablution and does not hurt anyone, the angels will say: 'O Allah! Forgive this. my god! Have mercy on this. my god! They pray and ask for forgiveness by saying, 'Accept his repentance. )
849-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When the man returns to his family members, he returns as they rejoice; Allah rejoices for every Muslim man (who goes there regularly) who makes mosques his homeland for prayer and dhikr. )
850-) - “... From Abdullah bin Amr (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: After we performed the evening prayer with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he returned (to his house) and the one who waited waited. After a while, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came running, breathing fast and with his knees open. And he said (to us): Here, your Lord has opened a door from the gates of heaven, boasting about you to the angels: 'Look at my servants. They made one fard and they perhaps made the other fard,' he says. )
851-) - "... From Abu Said-i Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When you know (or) see that a man has made it a habit to go to and from mosques, bear witness that he is a believer. Please pay. Allahu ta'ala; 'Verily, only those who believe in Allah... Repentance: 18 commanded. )
852-) - “... From Abu Humayd es-Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anh): When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up for prayer, he would stand towards the qibla, raise his hands and say: (Allahu akbar. ). "
853-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to start the recitation in his prayer (after the takbir of Taharrum) with the following prayer: By adorning your praise, I would absolve you of all deficiencies. . Your name is too big. Your majesty is also very high. There is no deity worthy of worship except you. )
854-) - “... Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) uttered the takbir (beginning the prayer), he would remain silent between the takbir and his (open) reciting. (She wouldn't read anything outright). Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) said: I said: May my father and mother be sacrificed for you. Can you tell me about your silence between takbir and recitation? “Tell me what you said,” I said. He said: Distance me and my faults as you have distanced the Orient and the West. my god! Cleanse me from my faults as the white dress is cleansed of dirt. my god! Wash me from my faults with water, snow, and hail (or similar kinds of forgiveness). 'I'll tell you. ) commanded. " :. . . . Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) is reported to have said: When (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) started the prayer, he used to say (after the takbir of taharrum);
856-) - “... From Cubayr bin Mut'im (radiyallahu anh): I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) when he entered the prayer. He recited: once (Allah is greater than everything. Allah is greater than everything.) three times (praise be to Allah a lot. Praise be to Allah a lot.) thrice (morning and evening, Allah is beyond all faults.) (O Allah! Surely, I seek refuge in You from the stoned devil, his hemisphere, his soul and his soul.) Amr said: Satan's hemz is a muta disease. The soul of the devil is poetry. Satan's soul is also arrogance. "
857-) - “... From Abdullah Ibn Masud (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked: He said: Satan's partner is mutadir. His soul is poetry. His soul is also arrogant. "
858-) - “... From Hulb (bin Adi) (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led us in prayer. He held his left hand with his right hand. "
859-) - “... He said from Vâil bin Hucr (radiy-Allâhu anh): I saw the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) praying. He was holding his left hand with his right hand. "
860-) - “... Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh) said: While I was putting my left hand on my right hand in prayer, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) passed by me and took my right hand and placed it on my left hand. "
861-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said (in prayer); . . . . . . He would start the recitation with it. "
862-) - “... From Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), Abu Bakr and Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) (in prayer); They would start the qiraat with it. "
863-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (in prayer); He would start the recitation. " ..... Abdullah bin al-Mugaffel's son (Yezîd) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) said: I have rarely seen a man who is more sensitive and harsh than my father in introducing something new to the religion of Islam. As I was starting the recitation, he heard my voice. Thereupon, he said: O my son! Beware of establishing anything (in religion), because I am with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) together with Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh); I prayed together with him (radiy-Allâhu anh). I did not hear any of them say the basmala while starting the recitation. Therefore, start by saying, "When you start the recitation," he said.
865-) - “... It is narrated from Qutba bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh). itself. In the (first rak'ah) of the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) morning prayer: (And the date trees with buds lined up one on top of the other (towards the sky)..... ) Surah: Qaf. Verse: He said that he heard the verse 10 while reciting the sura it contains. )
866-) - “... According to what was narrated from Amr bin Hurays (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in the morning prayer: (I swear by the stars that appear at night and go out during the day, and the planets that wander and enter their nests.) Surah: Takvir, Verse: 15-16 I prayed with him while reciting the verses (the surah in which it is found). I seem to be hearing His recitation right now. )
867-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Barza (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite between sixty and one hundred verses in the morning prayer. "
868-) - “... From Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led us in prayer. In the first rak'ah of the noon and afternoon fards, he would lengthen the recitation. He would shorten the second rak'ah. So was the morning prayer. "
869-) - “... From Abdullah bin es-Sâib (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) recited the chapter “Mu’minun” in the morning prayer. When he came to the place where Jesus (Aleyhi's-Salam) was mentioned, he held him to an east. Thereupon, he immediately bowed. So cough (kept.)
870-) - “... From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the morning prayer (in the first rak'at) on Friday; . . . . . and (in his second rak'ah); . . . . . He recited his surahs. "
871-) - “... From Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas (radiyallahu anhuma), the father of Mus'ab: He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in the first rak'at of the morning prayer on Friday. . . . . and (in its second rak'ah): . . . . He read the times. " ..... From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to recite the surahs of the morning prayer (in the first rak'ah) and (in the second rak'ah) on Friday."
873-) - “... From Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in the morning prayer (in the first rak'ah) on Friday: . . . . (and in the second rak'ah): . . . . he read his surahs. He said: "Amr thus entrusted us from Abdullah. I have no doubt about it. "
874-) - “... Kaz'a (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I asked Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh) about the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: There is no good in it for you. I said: May Allah have mercy on you, explain (it). The residence of the noon fard was brought for him: One of us took him to al-Baqi. He would have had an accident. Then he would come (to his house) and perform ablution (return to the mosque). He said that he would find the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the first rak'ah of the noon fard. "
875-) - “...From Abu Ma'mer (radiyallahu anh): He said: I told Habbab (radiyallahu anh): What did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recite in the noon and afternoon prayers? I asked, "Did you know?
876-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): He said: I have never seen anyone who resembles the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) more than such and such a man in terms of the way he performed. (Suleyman bin Yesar) said: He used to extend the first two rak'ahs of the noon prayer. He would lighten the last two rak'ahs and make the afternoon prayer light. "
877-) - “... Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: Thirty people from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) who had participated in the Battle of Badr gathered and said to each other: They said, 'Let's calculate (how many verses) the recitation in the prayer that he did not read openly). Not even two of them disagreed, and they estimated the recital of the Prophet in the first rak'ah of the noon prayer as thirty verses and in the last rak'ah as half as much. they guessed about half the qiraat. "
878-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to recite the Qur’an in the first two rak'ats of the noon prayer (after the Conquest) and (from the verses he recited secretly) ) some of them would be announced to us from time to time. )
879-) - “... According to what is reported from Barâ' bin Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to lead us in the noon prayer. We heard some of the verses from the chapters of Lokman and Zâriyat that he recited from him. "
881-) - “... According to what is reported from Cubayr bin Mut'im (radiyallahu anh), he said: In the evening prayer of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); . . . I heard you recite (the Surah). ) (radiy-Allâhu anh) said in another hadith other than this: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); . . . . When I heard you recite your verses, my heart almost flew. "
882-) - “... From Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was in the evening prayer. . . . . . . . . He recited (the suras). "
883-) - “... According to what is reported from Bara' bin Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he performed the night prayer together with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: , (in one rak'ah of that prayer) . . . . . . He said, I heard you recite (the Surah). "
884-) - “... According to what is reported from Barâ' bin Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said the same hadith as above, and at the same time he also said the following: I have never heard from (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) a person with a beautiful voice or recitation. "
885-) - “... It is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh) (urea: Muâz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh) led his friends in the night prayer and extended the prayer to them. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to Muâz: when you become an imam) read the periods of Shams, A'lâ, Leyi and Alâk.) "
887-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu's-Saib (radiyallahu anh), he heard from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prays in which he does not recite Fatiha, that prayer is incomplete. it is not ok. ) commanded. Me: Ebâ Hüreyre! Undoubtedly, I will be behind the imam from time to time. ) said. Thereupon, Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) grabbed my arm and pressed it, saying: Persian! Read the Fatiha secretly. ) he replied.
888-) ... From Abu Said-i Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is no prayer who does not recite the Fatiha and a sura in every rak'ah of the other prayers. )
889-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) she said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: Every prayer that does not read Fatiha is incomplete. )
890-) - “... According to what is narrated from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As (radiy-Allâhu anhum)), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Every prayer that does not read Fatiha is incomplete. , every prayer is incomplete.)
891-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu'd Darda (radiyallahu anh): a man asked him (the ruling on reciting in prayer): will I (also) recite even though he recites it?' said. Abu'd Darda said: 'A man, is there a recital in every prayer?' He asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) (a question). Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said; (There is reading in every prayer.)) Thereupon, a person from the tribe said: 'This has become wâjib. " said. "
892-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), he said: We used to recite Fatiha in the first two rak'ahs of the noon and afternoon prayers behind the imam, and a surah: Fatiha in the last two rak'ahs. "
893-) ... From Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh); He said: There are two interruptions that I remember from (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Imran bin al-Husayn (radiyallahu anh) did not accept this. Thereupon, we wrote a letter to Ubayy bin Ka'b (radiyallahu anh) in Medina and asked about the situation. Ubayy (radiyallahu anh) reported in a written reply that Samura (radiyallahu anh) memorized what was received from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) thoroughly.
894-) - “... According to what is reported from Hasan (-i Basrî) (radiyallahu anh): Samura (bin Jundub) said that (radiyallahu anh) said: One pause before reciting and one slack during ruku' I memorized two interruptions in prayer from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Imran bin al-Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh) did not accept his word. Thereupon, they wrote (the situation) to Ubayy bin Ka'b (radiyallahu anh) in Medina. Ubayy (radiyallahu anh) approved Samura (radiyallahu anh). "
895-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He was made an imam to be followed. Therefore, when the imam says takbir, you say takbir, and when he says it, keep silent; When he says, say "Amin", when he goes to ruku', go to ruku', when he says: '. When you prostrate, prostrate, and when you pray sitting, all of you pray sitting. )
896-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When he recites, you keep quiet. Let the first dhikr of any of you be tashahhud when the imam sits down. )
897-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Ukeyma (al-Leysi) (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) say the following: The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said to his companions he prayed. I think that prayer is the morning prayer. After the prayer, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked, “Did any of you recite (with me)?” A man ; I (read) said. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I say, (inside me): What is the matter with me that I have read the Qur’an (I have read it) and it is being discussed with me?” "
898-) - “... From Ibn Ukayma (radiyallahu anh): According to what he (he) narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) said: He said the same hadith and added the following to it: “After that, the Companions remained silent during the prayers that the imam recited openly. "
899-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If a person has an imam, the recitation of the imam is for him. )
900-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh). According to the rumor; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When he wants to say amen, say amen too. Because the angels say: Amen. Whoever says 'Amen' coincides with the angels saying 'Amen', his past sin will be forgiven. ) "
901-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “When he wants to say amen, say amen too. Because whoever says amen coincides with the angels saying amen, his past sins will be forgiven. )
902-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: He abandoned saying "Amin". However, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); . When he said "Amen", the voice of those in the first row would be heard, and the mosque would wave with the voice of "Amin". " '.... Ali (bin Abi Talib) (radiyallahu anh) said: I heard him say that when he said . . . . '
904-) - “... From Vâil (bin Hücr) (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I prayed together with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). . . . . . . when he says: . . . . . . . said. We also heard the sound of ûy1. "
905-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “They do not envy you for anything as much as they envy you for your greeting and saying “Amin”. )
906-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "They do not envy you for anything as much as they envy you for your amin (saying). Say amen for this. )
907-) - "... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiyallahu anhuma) reported that he said: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) uttered the takbir of iftitah in prayer, went into ruku' and raised his blessed head from ruku', he said: I saw him lift it up to his shoulders. He would not raise (his hands) between two prostrations. "
908-) - “... According to what was reported from Malik bin al-Huwayris (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When he recited the takbir of iftitah (for prayer), he would raise his hands up to near his ears. He would do the same thing when he went to Ruku. And when he raised his head from ruku, he would do like him. "
909-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): He said; I saw that (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) raises his hands up to the level of his shoulders when he utters the takbir of iftitah in prayer, when he goes into ruku and when he gets up to prostrate. "
910-) - “... From Umayr bin Habîb (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to raise his hands with every takbir in the fard prayer. "
911-) - “... From Muhammad bin Amr bin Ala (radiy-Allâhu anhum): I heard it from Abu Humayd es-Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anh). He was among the ten Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). One of the ten companions was Abu Qatada bin Rib'i. Abu Humayd told the ten Companions who were there = I know the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) better than any of you. He used to say, when he wanted to go into ruku', he would raise his hands up to his shoulders. when he said that, he would raise his hands, then he would straighten up. When he stood up from two rak'ahs (the third rak'ah), he would say takbir and raise his hands up to the level of his shoulders, as he did when he recited the iftitah takbir. "
912-) - “... From Abbas bin Sahl-i Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (Among the Companions) Abu Humayd (es-Saidî), Abu Usayd es-Saidî, Sahl bin Sa'd (es-Sâîdi) and Muhammad bin Maslama (radiy-Allâhu anhum) gathered. For a while, they told about the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Abu Humayd (radiy-Allâhu anh): I know the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) better than any of you. Surely, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up for prayer and raised his hands by saying takbir. Then, when he said takbir to reach ruku', he raised his hands. Then he got up from ruku' and raised his hands and said, 'He straightened himself until every bone returned to its place. "..... Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood up for the obligatory prayer, he would say takbir and raise his hands until they were at the level of his shoulders. When he wanted to go to Ruku, he would do the same. When he lifted his head from ruku' he would do the same. And when he stood up from two rak'ahs (third rak'ah), he would do the same.
914-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to raise his hands every time he uttered takbir. "
915-) - “... Anas (bin Malik) said from (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to raise his hands when he entered the prayer and went into ruku'. "
916-) - “... Vâil bin Hücr (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I said (to myself): Let me definitely and thoroughly look at (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) how does he pray? Thereupon (I looked) the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) got up and stood towards the qibla. Then he raised his hands up to his ears. Then, when he went to ruku', he raised his hands like this. When he lifted his head from the ruku, he raised his hands like this."
917-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu'z-Zubayr (radiyallahu anh): bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhu) raised his hands when starting the prayer, and when he went to ruku' and when he raised his head from ruku', he would do the same. And: 'I saw Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). That's what he did,' he said.
918-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) it was said: When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went into ruku’, he would neither raise his head nor lower it down; he would hold it between the two of them. "
919-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Mas'ud (Ukbe bin Amr al-Ansari) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The prayer of a man who does not keep his back straight while prostrating is not enough."
920-) - “... Ali bin Shayban (radiy-Allâhu anh) was one of the delegation sent by his people to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as an envoy. He said: We set out. Finally, after we arrived at the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), we pledged allegiance to him. And we prayed behind it. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) looked from ear to ear at a man who did not perform his prayers properly, that is, did not keep his back straight in ruku' and prostration. When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) finished his prayer. - Muslim community! There is no prayer for those who do not keep their back straight in ruku' and prostration. ) commanded. ".....Wabisi bin Ma'bed (radiyallahu anh) is reported to have said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) praying. When he bowed, he held his waist so straight that if water spilled on him If he had, he would have stayed there."
922-) - “... From Mus'ab bin Sa'd (bin Ebî Vakkâs) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: I bowed down next to my father and practiced it. (By putting the fingers of both my hands together, I put my hands between my knee caps and put my knee caps together.) My father hit my hand and said: This is how we used to do it. Then we were commanded to raise our hands above our knees. said. "
923-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) she said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to bow and put his hands on his knees. He would move his biceps (from their sides). "
925-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) says: ) commanded. "
926-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saying: )
927-) - “... From Ibn Abi Awfâ (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) lifts his head from the ruku’ (start to leave) and after straightening up. . . . . he would say. "
928-) - “... From Abu Juhayfa (radiyallahu anh): He said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was in prayer. Along with him, fortunes were mentioned. A man said: So-and-so is in the horses. Another said: Camels have their share of so much. Another said: "So much is in the sheep." Another person said: The share of so much is with the slaves. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) prayed and when he lifted his head from the last rak'ah, he said, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, 'al-Ced = nasib', so that they know that what they say is not true. , extended with the word. "
929-) - “... from Maymuna (radiyallahu anha); He said: When he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prostrated, he would move his arms (from his sides). So much so that if a lamb wanted to pass between his arms, it could. )
930-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ubeydullah bin Akram al-Huzai's father, Ubeydullah bin Akram al-Huzâi (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: I was with my father on a plain of Nemire, quite far from the mountains and hills. A caravan of cavalry passed by us and they collapsed (their camels) on the side of the road. Then my father (Akram) said to me: You stay with the animals. He said, 'Until I go to this group, I will meet with them and ask about their situation. And he went out. I was too. So I got close. I saw that the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) was there. they stopped. ) I was present at the prayer and prayed with them. Every time the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) prostrated, I would look at the whiteness of his armpits. Macete said: People say Ubeydullah bin Abdullah. The narrator Abu Bakr bin Abi Shayba also said: People call Abdullah bin Ubeydilah. ... Muhammad bin Bashar has appointed us. (He also said:) Abdurrahman bin Mahdi, Safwan bin Isa and Abu Dawud enthroned us and said: We are told by Dâvûd bin Kays, Ubeydullah bin Abdillah bin Akram; He inherited the same amount from his father, and he from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). )
932-) - “... According to what is reported from Vâil bin Hücr (radiy-Allâhu anh). He said: I saw the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) put his knees on the ground before his hands while prostrating, and when he rose from prostration, he raised his hands (from the ground) before his knees. " ..... (Abdullah) Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allāhu anhuma) reported that the Prophet (sall-Allāhu alaihi wa sallam) said: I have been commanded to prostrate on seven bones.) ..... Ibn-i According to what was narrated from Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: I have been commanded to prostrate on seven (bones) and not to gather hair and clothes (when prostrating).
935-) - “... According to what is reported from Abbas bin Abdulmuttalib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he himself; He heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: When he prostrates, seven of his limbs prostrate with him: (It should.) His face, palms, knees and feet. ) „. Ahmar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the friend of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “We really felt sorry for him because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) moved his hands too far from his sides when he prostrated. "
937-) - “... From Ukbe bin Amir al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh), he said: you. Glorify the name of your Great Lord.) When the verse 52 of Al-Haqqa was revealed, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told us: Make the (meaning of the verse) in your bow. ) commanded. Later; Glorify the name of your Almighty Lord.) When the verse of al-Ala 1 was revealed, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to us: (Make your prostration in this (the concept of the verse)). "
938-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe bin al-Waman (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: From (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He heard him say (Subhana Rabbiye'l-Azîm) three times when he went to ruku' and three times when he went to prostrate (Subhana Rabbiye'l-Ala). "
939-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) in his bowing prostration: . . . . . He used to interpret the Qur'an by saying a lot. "
940-) - “... According to what is narrated from (Abdullah) Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When he goes to ruku', he should say 'Subhana Rabbiye'l-Azim' three times in his ruku'. Because when he does this, his ruku' will be completed. And when one of you prostrates, let him say 'Subhana Rabbiye'l-A'la' three times in his prostration. Because when he does this, he will have completed his work. This (mentioned) dhikr is the least. )
941-) - “... According to what was narrated from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He said: When he prostrates, he should be moderate. And let him not spread his arms (on the ground) like the dog spreads.)"
942-) - “... From Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Do not let any of you prostrate by spreading his arms like a dog. ) commanded. "
943-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: When the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) lifted his head from ruku', he would not prostrate until he was straightened up and standing. When he sat, he used to slander his left foot. He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) told me: (Do not sit between two prostrations while sitting iq'a.)
945-) - “... from Ali (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Ali! Do not sit with the iqâ sitting like the dog sitting ilf'â. )
946-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he himself; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to me, "When you raise your head from prostration, don't do it like a dog does. Take your rump between your feet and stick the tops of your feet on the floor. )
948-) - “... It is narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhum): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in the night prayer between two prostrations (in sitting) ((O) Lord! Forgive me (my sins), forgive me Have mercy on me. Fix me (my broken ones). Provide me with sustenance and raise me (my degrees). ) "
949-) - “... Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh) reportedly said: When we prayed together with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (when we sit for tashahhud) (Peace be to the servants of Allah) Before we say, "Peace be to Allah, Peace be to Gabriel, Mikail, so-and-so." Ibn Mas'ud and his friends (by the word so-and-so) refer to angels. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) heard us saying this, so do not say: "May Allah be with you." For surely Allah is the salutation itself. When you sit for this (tashahhuda); say. Because, when the person says this, the sentence of greeting reaches every righteous servant in the heavens and on the earth. ) ... "..... Abdullah bin . Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh) reported: He narrated the same amount from the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) " ... ... " ..... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) taught them tashahhud. Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh) mentioned the same hadith.”
953-) - “... From (Abdullah) Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to teach us tashahhud as he taught us the surahs from the Qur'an. And he would read the tashahhud as follows:
954-) - “... From Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) addressed us and explained our way. He taught us our prayer and meanwhile said: When you pray, when one of you sits down (for tashahhud), his first word should be:
955-) - “... from Jabir bin Abdullah (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to teach us tashahhud as if he were teaching us a surah from the Qur'an:
957-) - “... (Abdurrahman) From Ibn Abi Layla (radiyallahu anh): He said: bin Ucre (radiyallahu anh) came across me and said: Shall I give you a gift? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) once came to us. We said (to him): (O Messenger of Allah!) We knew how to greet you. We asked you how (to bring blessings) to you. He said: (Say):
958-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Humayd es-Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anh): To the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Rasûlallah! We have been commanded to bring blessings upon you. They asked, "How are we going to bring blessings on you?" He also said: (Say):
959-) - “... From Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: When you want to send blessings to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), send him well. Because of course you don't know. It is hoped that the salawat you brought will be presented to Him. ' The narrator said: Those who were with Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh) said to him: Then teach us (good salawat). Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh) said (to them): Say:
960-) - “... According to what is reported from Amir bin Rahia (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “There is no Muslim who sends blessings on me so that the angels do not send blessings on him as long as he sends blessings on me. (Let him not pray and ask forgiveness for him.) Now, let the servant bring this salawat less or more. )
961-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (The person who forgets to send blessings on me (left) has left the way to Paradise.)
962-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When he finishes the last tashahhud, he should seek refuge in Allah from four things: the torment of Hell, the torment of the grave, the fitnah of life and death, and the temptation of the messiah Dajjal. ) . from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked a man: "What do you say when you sit (sitting) in prayer?" Man : I read tashahhud. Then I ask Allah for paradise and seek refuge in Him from the fire. But he said, "By Allah, I don't know your dendene (growing) nor Muaz's dendene." Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: We will roar around him. ) commanded. "
964-) - “... Numayr al-Khuzai (radiyallahu anh) reportedly said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was sitting with his right hand on his right thigh while praying (sitting for tashahhud) and with his index finger. I saw you pointing. "
965-) - “... From Vâil bin Hucr (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: While I was ringing the thumb and middle fingers of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in tashahhud and after these fingers I saw him raise his finger of martyrdom and pray with it. "
966-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: When he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) sat in prayer (for tashahhud), he would put his hands on his knees and raise the right (witness) finger that comes after the thumb and pray with it. He would put his left hand on the knee by spreading it. "
967-) - “... Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh) said: (As-Salamu alaikum wa rahmatullah) he would greet. "
968-) - “... According to what is reported from Sa'd (bin Ebî Wakkâs) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would greet to his right and left (while leaving the prayer). "
969-) - “... from Ammar bin Yasir (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to greet his right and left (turning his head) until the whiteness of his cheek could be seen (while leaving the prayer): (As-Salamu alaikum wa rahmatullah. Es-Salamu alaikum ve rahmatullah) "
970-) - “... From Abu Alusa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); He said: Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) led us such a prayer on the day of the Jamal incident that he reminded us of the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Now we are forgetting the prayer of Him (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Or we leave. Because Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) would greet both his right and left (while leaving the prayer). "
971-) - “... According to what is reported from Sahl bin Sa'd es-Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) greeted him once (while leaving the prayer). " . . According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would greet her once (while leaving the prayer).”
973-) - “... From Salama bin al-Ekva' (radiyallahu anh); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) praying. He saluted once (while leaving the prayer). "
974-) - "... According to what is reported from Samura bin Jundub (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (When the Imam greets, greet him.) "
975-) - “... According to what is reported from Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered us to greet our imams and greet one another. "
976-) - “... According to what is reported from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: A servant should not act as an imam and pray only for himself (in prayer) without associating with the congregation. If he does (like this), he will be betraying the congregation. ) "
977-) - “... From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) only greets (at the end of the prayer); He just sat up to say. "
978-) - “... From Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): He said: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed the morning obligatory and saluted, he would recite the following prayer: I have beneficial knowledge from you, good (= halal) sustenance and acceptable I wish you well. )
979-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There is something that every Muslim man who continues these things will enter Paradise. . These are easy things, but few people act on them. (The first is this:) After each prayer, a Muslim person glorifies ten times, utters takbir ten times, and praises ten times. ) ) (radiyallahu anh) said: 'I saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) memorizing (calculating) the number of these dhikrs with his blessed hand (fingers)'. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) continued his command as follows: These are one hundred and fifty (sentences) in terms of language (saying). It is one thousand five hundred sentences in Mizan. (The second is this:) When a Muslim goes to bed, he recites tasbih, hamd and takbir a hundred times. And these are a hundred (sentences) in terms of being pronounced with the tongue. However, there are a thousand (sentences) in the scale. In that case, which of you commits two thousand five hundred evils a day?) (radiy-Allâhu anhum): Rasûlullah!) How can a Muslim man not continue to do these things? they said. (It was strange that he could not continue with these.) (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) : (While any of you is in prayer, the devil comes to him and says: Remember something and such, so that the servant leaves the prayer negligently and while any of you is in bed (lying) Satan comes to him. arrives next to him and the devil tries to put him to sleep until he falls asleep.)
980-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Dharr(-i Gifârî) (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: ) said: I said to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): O Messenger of Allah! Sahihs of fortune took the thawab away. (So:) They say what we say. And they spend their wealth in the way of Allah. However, we don't get an injection. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to me: (Let me tell you something that when you do it, you will catch up with those who passed you (in terms of virtue) and those who come after you (in terms of virtue) will not be able to catch up with you. , you say tasbih and takbir thirty-three and thirty-four times. He said: "I will not know which of the hamd, tasbih and takbir is thirty-four (times).
981-) - “... According to what was reported from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to ask for forgiveness three times when he left the prayer, and then you would say: 'Astaghfirullah'. the form of repentance has been reported. The author of Tuhfetu'l-Ahvezi, Ibn-i Sayyid'n-Nas, said: Asking for forgiveness is giving the right to the servant and doing the duty of gratitude. As a matter of fact, he said in a hadith: Why shouldn't I be a grateful servant?) Another reason why he asks for forgiveness is that he declares his sunnah to believers in deed as well as verbally in terms of prayer and supplication. So that they too can lead their own nevebi. '
983-) - “... Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiy-Allâhu anh) reportedly said: One of you should not try to spare Satan a share in his soul (for this reason), believing that he has to turn to his right side (while leaving the prayer). Because me. I saw Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Most of his turns were to the left. "
984-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhum): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was (sometimes) alive when he left the prayer. I saw him turn to the left (sometimes) to the left. . "
985-) - “... From Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha) (mother of the believers): She said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When he saluted from the prayer, the women would get up immediately (go to their homes) when he completed his salutation. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would wait for a while before getting up. "
986-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When the food is placed and the prayer is performed, you should eat first. )
987-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Eat first when the food is placed and the prayer is done. ) said: In accordance with this order, Ibn-i Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) ate his dinner (before he did not stop to pray) even though he heard the sound of the residence. "
988-) - “... According to what was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Eat first when the meal is prepared and the prayer is performed. )
989-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu'l-Malih (radiyallahu anh), he said: I left the house (to pray with the congregation) on a rainy night. Then when I came back (from prayer), I wanted to have the door of the house open. My Father (Usama bin Umair): Who is he? said. I said: Abu'l-Malih. My father said: By Allah, I know well that we were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on the day of Hudaybiyyah. A rain fell that did not wet the soles of our shoes. Thereupon, the muezzin of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) shouted, "Perform your prayers where you stand!" "
990-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reportedly said the following: At night or during a cold, windy night, the muezzin of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to shout: Pray where you are. "
991-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reportedly said: On a rainy Friday, he said: Pray on the ground. ) "
992-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) reported: He ordered the muezzin to call the adhan on a rainy Friday. The muezzin began to call the adhan by saying Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar, ashhadu enlailahe illallah, ashhadu enne Muhammeder-Rasûlullah..... After saying muezzin Eşhedü enne Muhammeder-Rasûlullah, Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), instead of muezzin: ale's-Salah, call the people. “Let them pray at home,” he said. Thereupon, the people said to Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): What did you do? Himself: (a very) auspicious person certainly did this. —By this, he meant the Prophet. "You are ordering me to drive the people out of their houses and come to me knee-deep in mud," he said.
993-) - “... According to what is reported from Musa bin Talha's father (Talha bin Ubeydullah) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: We used to stand for prayer. (At this time) the animals would pass in front of us. This situation was told to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, O: Let there be something like the back eyebrow of a saddle in front of it. Passers-by no longer harm her. ) commanded. "
994-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) reportedly said the following: He would go to war in a campaign for (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He would pray towards it (when he wanted to pray) by placing the harba on the ground. "
995-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had a mat. It was laid on the ground during the day. The Prophet (peace be upon him) used to pray towards him at night by pretending to be a private cell. "
996-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When he wants to stand for prayer, he should stand against something (like a wall). If he can't find it, let him plant a staff on the ground. If he cannot find (this too), let him draw a line. Things that pass in front of him no longer harm him. ) was narrated by Abu Dawud, Ahmad, Ibn-i Hibban and Beyhaki.
998-) - “... According to what is reported from Busr bin Said (radiyallahu anhu), Zayd bin Khalid (radiyallahu anh) sent (himself) to Abu Juhaym al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh) and said: The man passing in front of the person standing ( What did you hear from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the sin of Allah? he asked. Abu Juhaym (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: If someone knew how much (sin) there was for him because his brother passed in front of him while he was praying, he would surely have to wait forty (times). (his hardship) would have been better than the sin he bore (due to his passing). ) said: Forty years, forty months, forty days? I do not know.
999-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If any of you (religion) knew how much sin he had to bear when his brother (religion) was crossing in front of him while he was praying, he would be in his place for a hundred years. It will undoubtedly be better for him to stop than the step he takes. )
1001-) - “... from Umm-Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was praying in Umm Salama's (radiyallahu anha) room. Abdullah or Omar bin Abi Salama (radiyallahu anhum) wanted to pass in front of him. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) pointed with his hand. The boy is back too. After a while, Zaynab bint-i Ummi Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) wanted to pass (in front of him). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) pointed with his hand as follows. (Despite this) Zaynab (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) passed (in front of him). When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) finished the prayer, he said: They are victorious over men (in opposition and rebellion).
1002-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: A black dog and a menstruating woman, who pass in front of the person praying, interrupt the prayer. )
1003-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (The woman, dog and donkey (passing in front of the person praying) interrupt the prayer.)
1004-) - “... From Abdullah bin Mugaffel (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The one who passes by the person doing it." The woman, the dog and the donkey interrupt the prayer. )
1005-) - “... From Abu Dharr(-i Gifari) (radiyallahu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When there is nothing like the back muscle of the saddle in front of a standing man (from in front of him) The woman, the donkey and the black dog interrupt the prayer. ) Abdullah bin Samit) said: I: O Abu Dharr! How is a black dog different from a red dog? I asked. . Abu Dharr: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) as you asked me; whereupon He said: the dog is the devil. ) commanded. "
1006-) - “... According to what is reported from Hasan al-Ureni (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The things that interrupted the prayer by passing in front of the person praying were told next to Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ). (Speakers) chanted the dog donkey, and the woman. Thereupon, Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) said: What do you say about Capricorn? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was performing prayers (as an imam) one day. A Capricorn tried to get past Him. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "He went to the qibla before him (to prevent him from passing through)" (he narrowed the passageway). " . . According to what was narrated from Abu Said-i Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When someone wants to pray, he should stand towards a sutrah and pray, stay close to the suture, and do not see anyone in front of him. If anyone (despite this) comes and tries to pass, he should fight him.
1008-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Do not let anyone pass in front of you while you are praying. If the person who wants to pass refuses to pass, let the man in prayer confront him. Because the friend of the one who wants to pass, the devil is with him. )
1009-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray at night. I used to lie between him and the qibla like a funeral. "
1010-) ... According to what was narrated from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anh), she said that her bed was in line with the place where the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prostrated. "Maymuna, the wife of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "He used to pray. I was in his line with him. When he prostrated, his clothes touched me many times."
1012-) - “... According to the narration of Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade performing prayers behind a person who is speaking or sleeping. )
1013-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to teach us not to bow down and prostrate before the imam, and he would say: when he says takbir, you also say takbir, and when he prostrates, you also prostrate. "
1014-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Isn't the person who lifts up before the imam afraid that Allah will turn his head into the head of a donkey?)
1015-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I am really old. Therefore, bow down when I bow down, and prostrate when I bow down. I will not come across anyone who neither bowed nor prostrated before me. )
1016-) - “... According to what is reported from Muawiya bin Abi Sufyan (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Do not attempt to bow and prostrate first. (Because before you), you will have caught up with me with it (replenishment) and ( Whatever time I passed you when I prostrated before you, you will have caught up with me when I got up from prostration. I am really old.) "
1019-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade a person to cover his mouth (with something) in prayer. "
1020-) - “... According to what is reported from Ka'b bin Ucra (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw a man in prayer with his fingers intertwined, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) fingered his fingers. separated from each other. "
1021-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he yawns, he should put his hand on his mouth and not shout (saying Haaaa). Because the devil laughs because of his shouting. )
1022-) - “... According to what is narrated from Adîyy bin Thabit's grandfather (radiy-Allâhu anhum); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: spitting, blowing nose, going through menstruation and napping are from the devil. )
1023-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There is a person; none of their prayers are acceptable: the man who leads a tribe even though he does not like his leadership, the man who always follows him to the prayer (that is, after he misses the time) and the man who uses the freed person as a slave. )
1024-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There are people whose prayers cannot rise an inch above their head; A people, the man who leads them even though he does not like his leadership, the woman who spends the night even though her husband is angry with her, and the two brothers who are angry with each other.)
1025-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Muse'l-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: A person and above (more) are a community.)
1026-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: One night, I slept with my aunt Maymuna (our Lord's wife) (radiyallahu anha) (= in her room). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) got up (after he slept for a while) and started to perform the night prayer. I stood on his left side to pray. Thereupon He took my hand and stopped it (pulling) to its right side. " '.... Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reportedly said: He was performing the evening prayer (n fard). pulling) stopped to the right side."
1028-) - “... As narrated from Anas (bin Malik) (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led a woman from his relative and me in prayer. He stopped me on his right (when he was about to stop for prayer). The woman stood behind us to pray. "
1029-) - “... From Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to hold our shoulders in prayer (in order to know the correctness of the row) and said: Do not be confused so that your hearts will not be confused. Let the wisest of you (in prayer) stay close to me. Then let those who are close to them (in terms of intelligence) stop. Then, let alone those who are quite close to them. ) would command. "
1030-) - “... Anas (bin Malik) (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported that he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) liked that the emigrants and Ansars stood close to him (in prayer) so that they could take (the rules of prayer) from him. . "
1031-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh), he said: (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saw a setback (= avoiding standing in the front row) among his Companions and said to them: Come and follow me. May those who come after you follow you. A people who continue to hold back (from the front line) will finally be pushed back by Allah. )
1032-) - “... from Malik bin al-Huwayris (radiyallahu anh); He said: I came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with a friend of mine. When we want to return, He tells us: when the time comes, call the adhan, take up residence and (slowly) let your elder lead you in prayer. ) commanded. "
1033-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Mas'ud (al-Badri) (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (The person who knows the book of Allah the most is the imam for his people. If their knowledge of the Qur'an is equal (from Mecca to Medina), the one who migrated first should lead the imam. If their migration is together, the elder should lead the imam. let him not sit in the place allocated to him, but with his permission (these things) happen.)
1034-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hazm (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: bin Sa'd-i Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anh) used to lead the youth of his tribe to lead the prayer. He said to him: Although you have a great seniority, you (why do you do this)? (You do not lead the prayer yourself) was said. He said: I heard Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saying: He is a surety. If he leads the prayer well, the reward is for him and the congregation. If he does it badly, the blame is on him. So it's not for the community. )
1035-) - “... Harasha's brother Selamet binti'l-Hür (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) reported that he said: I heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: A time will come when he will stand up for an hour. They will wait and they will not find an imam to lead them in prayer. )
1036-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Ali al-Hamedani (radiyallahu anh): He went on a journey by ferry, and Ukbe bin Amir al-Cuheni (radiyallahu anh) was on the ferry. (Abu Ali says): It was time for one of the prayers. We asked Ukba (radiy-Allâhu anh) to lead us in prayer and we said: “Surely, being an imam is your right more than any of us, you are a companion who was honored by the conversation of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). But he refrained from this and said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: If he leads people in prayer and leads them correctly (— complete), the prayer (reward) is for him and for the congregation. And whoever misses something from this prayer, the blame is on him. It is not above the congregation.)
1038-) - “... From Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to lead the prayer briefly and fully. "
1039-) - “... From Jabir (bin Abdillah al-Ansari) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: bin Cebel al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh) led his friends in the night prayer. He extended the prayer for a long time. For this reason, a man left our congregation and offered the prayer alone. When Muaz (radiyallahu anh) was informed about the situation, Muaz said: He is a hypocrite. When this word reached the man, he entered the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and narrated what Muaz (radiy-Allâhu anh) had said against him. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Muaz (radiy-Allâhu anh): Muâz! Do you want to be Fettan? When you lead the people in prayer, lead them with the suras Al-Shams, Al-A'la, Al-Leyl and al-Alak. ) commanded. ".....Usman bin Abi'l-As (radiy-Allāhu anh) reportedly said: When (sall-Allāhu 'alaihi wa sallam) appointed me as the governor of Taif, the last advice and order he gave me was as follows: He said: Osman ! Make the prayer light and count all the people according to the weakest man among them, because surely among them there are those who are big, small, sick, far away, and have work-power. )
1041-) - “... Osman bin Abi'l-As (radiy-Allâhu anh) reportedly said: This is the last word (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) commanded me: When you lead a people in prayer, lead them lightly. )
1042-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I enter the prayer once and want to prolong it, but when I hear a child crying, I lighten my reading because I know the sadness of his mother because of his crying.)
1043-) - “... According to what is reported from Osman bin Abi'l-As (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I hear a child crying (while leading the prayer). Then I will lighten my recitation. )
1044-) - “... from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (I really (many times) stop with the intention of prolonging the prayer (qira'at) and when I hear a child crying, I cut it short so that it will not bother the mother.)
1045-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Samura as-Süvaî (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Why are you not pure as they are pure in the sight of their Lord? ) (radiyallahu anh) said: We: How can angels be pure in the sight of their Lord? we said. Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). they complete (fill) the front lines and stick to each other tightly without leaving any gaps in the line. ) commanded. " ..... According to what is narrated from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Keep your lines straight. Because straightening the lines is part of the perfection (beauty) of prayer.)
1047-) - “... from Nu'man bin Bashir (Ansari) (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to straighten the row of prayers until he made it like a spear or arrow tree. The narrator said: (Once our Master) saw a man's chest protruding beyond the level, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: correct it. Otherwise, Allah will make your faces opposite each other. ) commanded. "
1048-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “May Allah have mercy on those who fill the rows (in prayer). Angels also pray and ask for their sins to be forgiven. Whoever fills a gap in the ranks, Allah will raise him one degree because of this behavior. )
1050-) - “... From Barâ' bin Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: Allah and His angels send blessings on the first saff. )
1051-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If they knew what is in the first line (goodness and blessings) (to be able to take part in this page). for) casting lots would accrue. )
1052-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdurrahman bin Awf (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Allah and his angels bless those who stand in the first row. )
1053-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: The best of his ranks is the one at the back. The one with the least reward is the one at the front. The best of men's ranks is the front row. The one with the least reward is the one at the back.)
1054-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The best of his ranks is the one in front, and the one that has the least rewards is the one behind. The best of his women's ranks is the last one. The one with the least reward is the one at the front. )
1056-) - “... From Ali bin Shayban (radiy-Allâhu anh), who was one of the delegation sent by his people to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as a messenger; He said: We set out (from Yamama to go to Madinah). Finally, we arrived in the presence of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). And we swore allegiance to Him. We prayed behind it. Then we performed another prayer behind it. When he finished the prayer, he saw a man standing alone behind the row. The narrator said: When that man will return and leave, the Prophet of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood over him and said, “Turn towards him. (Because) He who stands alone behind the row has no prayer. ) commanded. "
1057-) - “... From Vabisa bin Ma'bed (radiyallahu anh); He said: The man stood alone behind the row to pray. After the prayer, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered him to repeat his (prayer). "
1058-) - “... According to what Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anh) has narrated, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Allah and his angels (first) send blessings on the right sides of the rows (in prayer). )
1059-) - “... From Berâ bin Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: When we prayed behind (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) one of the things that made us very happy (according to Mis'ar) was that we stood on his right side. "
1060-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma): He said: It was said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) that his left part remained muattal (without congregation). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever reconstructs his left (by standing there to pray) receives a double reward. ) commanded. "
1062-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiyallahu anh), Omar (bin al-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh) said: 'O Messenger of Allah! Would you like to make a prayer place from Ibrahim's office?' said. Then the command: (Make up a prayer place from Abraham's station) was revealed."
1063-) - From "... Bara" (bin Azib) (radiyallahu anh): He said: We prayed towards Bayt al-Maqdis (in Jerusalem) for eighteen months with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Two months after the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) entered Medina, the Qibla (Bayt al-Maqdisten) was turned towards the Ka'ba. He would turn his face towards the sky in a long time. Allah knew in his heart that his Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) loved the Ka'ba. He started to follow him and was looking at what order Gabriel would bring. Allah revealed the verse: (We certainly see that your face is turned towards the sky..... ). While we were in ruku, a man came to us and said that the Qibla was turned towards the Ka'ba. We completed our prayer on k'ats (by adding the remaining rak'ahs). After the Qibla was turned towards the Ka'ba, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to Gabriel: Jibril! He asked, "How is our situation regarding the prayer (which we have performed so far) towards Bayt al-Maqdis?" After that, Allah (Azza wa Jalla) = (and Allah will not make your prayer (which you once offered towards Bayt al-Maqdis) wasted (deprived of rewards).) Al-Baqara, verse 144. "
1064-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (The distance between the east and the west is the qibla.)
1066-) ... According to what is reported from Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When he enters the mosque, he should pray two rak'ahs before sitting down. )
1067-) - “... From Ma'dân bin Abi Talha el-Ya'merî (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh) stood up to deliver a sermon on Friday or wanted to deliver a sermon on Friday. After praising and praising Allah: People! You are really eating those two greens (called garlic and onion) that I consider only malignant. However, when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was alive, I used to see a man (in the masjid) from whom the subject of greenery was born. He was taken away (from the mosque) until he was taken to Baki's side. He said, 'Then, whoever (intends on) eat it without doubt, you can at least remove its smell by cooking it'. "
1068-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The one who eats the greenery (it is said) should not harm us with its (smell) in this mosque." He said: My father, Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh)'s Prophet (sallallahu anh) said about garlic. He used to add leeks and onions to this hadith that he narrated from the Prophet (peace be upon him). "
1069-) - "... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he eats anything from this green (garlic) (until its smell goes away), do not come to the mosque. .) "
1070-) - “... From Abdullah bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stopped by the Cuban mosque and prayed in it, a few people from the Ansar-i Kiram came and greeted him. . To Suhayb (radiy-Allâhu anh), who was with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (there), how would the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) receive their greetings? said. Suhayb said: He used to point with his hand. "..... From Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent me on a job. Then (on my return) I went to him while he was praying and greeted him. He pointed to me (with his hand). When he finished his prayer, he called me. And he said: "You just greeted me. I was praying."
1072-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh): He said: We used to greet (those who were present) in the prayer. Later on, we were told: There is (important) occupation in prayer. )
1073-) - “... from Amir bin Rebia (radiyallahu anh); He said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey. It was cloudy and we could not know the qibla direction. Finally, we prayed and put up a sign (to see if the direction we were standing was right). Then, when the sun came up, it was understood that we had prayed in a direction other than the qibla. We explained this situation to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). After that, Allahu ta'ala revealed the verse: "Wherever you turn, that is the direction of Allah." " Baccarat, 116
1074-) - “... According to what is reported from Tarik bin Abdillah al-Muharibi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When you do it, do not spit in front of you or to your right. But spit to the left (if empty) or under the (left) foot. )
1075-) - “... From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw a phlegm on the qibla wall of the mosque. Thereupon, he turned to those there: what is wrong with someone who gets up and turns to his Lord (prayer) and then throws phlegm in front of him? Would any of you like to be turned towards and phlegm thrown in his face? When one of you spit, let him spit to his left. Or let him spit in his (like a handkerchief) robe. ) commanded. He said: (The narrator who narrated this hadith to me) Ishmael showed me the work to be done by spitting on his clothes and rubbing his clothes. "
1076-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe (radiyallahu anh), he saw Shabes bin Reb'i spitting in front of him and said: Sebes! Don't spit in front of you. Because the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade this and said: When a man gets up and starts the prayer, Allahu ta'ala turns towards him and turns to him (with His mercy) until he leaves the prayer or does something bad. )
1077-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) spat (once) into his clothes while he was praying. Then he rubbed. '
1078-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, “The one who touches the pebbles inside of him is dealing with useless things. )
1079-) - “... According to what is reported from Muayqib (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about touching the pebbles while he was doing it: If you (forced) touch the pebbles one time (rubbing your hand) . )
1080-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he starts the prayer, no doubt, mercy will befall him. Therefore, do not touch the pebbles (in the place of prostration). ) "
1081-) - “... The wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) Maymuna (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to pray on the humra. "
1082-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed on a mat. "
1083-) - “... from Amr bin Dinar (radiyallahu anh); He said: (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma) prayed on his mat while he was in Basra, and then he said to his friends: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray on his mat.
1084-) - “... Abdullah bin Abdirrahman (radiy-Allâhu anh) said (reported from his grandfather through his father): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to us. He led me in prayer in the Abdul-Eshel mosque. I saw her putting her hands on her dress when she prostrated. "
1085-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abdirrahman bin Sabit bin es-Sâmi. According to what he narrated from his father (Abdurrahman) and from his grandfather (Sabit) (radiy-Allâhu anhum): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prayed among the Banu Ashhal tribe, clad in a robe, and (while prostrating) he put his hands on his clothing. protected from the coldness of the pebbles. "
1086-) - “... From Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: We used to pray together with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in times of severe heat. When one of us (due to the heat of the prostration place) was not able to put his forehead firmly on the ground, he would prostrate on it by spreading one side of his clothing (dressed on the ground). "
1087-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is appropriate for men, and clapping is suitable for women. )
1088-) - “... According to what is reported from Sahl bin Sa'd es-Sâirli (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Clapping is also appropriate for women. )
1089-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave permission to women to clap their hands and to men to say subhanallah. "
1091-) - “... From Amr bin Shuayb (bin Mohammed bin Abdillah bin Amr bin al'As), He from his father (Shuayb), He from his grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr) (radiyallahu anhum); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) praying (sometimes) barefoot and (other times) wearing his shoes. From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: No doubt, we saw the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) praying with shoes and mestizos. "
1093-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “I was ordered not to gather hair and clothes (so that the condition would not deteriorate or become dusty) while I was doing it.) " "... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: We are commanded not to collect hair and clothes (while praying) and not to perform ablution due to stepping on the dirty ground. "
1095-) - “... Abu Sa'd (with a title) from the people of Medina-i Münevvere said that he saw the following, according to what is reported from him (radiy-Allâhu anh):
1096-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiyallahu anhuma) reported that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Do not raise them to the sky (in prayer) so that they do not go blind quickly. )
1097-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: One day, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led his Companions in prayer. When he finishes the prayer, he turns his blessed face to the congregation and says: What is the matter with people (while praying) they stare at the sky? ) commanded. His (warning) words on this matter became so intense that he finally said: (Those who do such things will either give up what they are doing or Allah will definitely blind them.) "
1098-) ... From Jabir bin Seniura (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Some people who set their eyes on the sky will either give up (this) or they will not turn back to them until their eyes are blind. .) "..... (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma) said: A beautiful woman, one of the most beautiful, used to pray behind the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Some people should not see that woman. They would go to the front line. Some people would stay behind so that they would be in the last line, and when they were in ruku' they would look at (the woman) under their arm. Thereupon, Allahu ta'ala said about the situation with that woman: We know those who are ahead of you. We certainly know the rest. We also know. ) (Hijr: 24) revealed the verse.
1100-) - “... From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: A man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasulallah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)! “One of us prays in one dress,” he said. (He asked the verdict of this.) The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Can he find two clothes each? "
1101-) - “... It is narrated from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he entered himself while he was praying in a single robe that was wrapped around his neck. He said: '..... From Umar bin Abi Salama (radiyallahu anhuma): He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) praying (once) in a single robe that was placed on his shoulders with both ends crossed. . "
1103-) - “... From Keysân (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) praying in a dress in Bi'r-i Ulya. "
1104-) - “... From Keysân (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) performing the noon and afternoon prayers in a single garment that he gathered (on his blessed chest). "
1105-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When his son recited the verse of prostration and prostrated, the devil cried and said, "Woe to me! The son of Adam was commanded to prostrate. (following the order) He prostrated. Therefore, Heaven belongs to Him. I was commanded to prostrate myself, but I refrained from prostrating. He says, "Hell fire belongs to me," and walks away. )
1106-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (One day) I was with the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). A man came to him and said: I dreamed that night. I am praying towards the trunk of a tree. I read the verse of prostration and prostrated. Because I prostrated, the tree also prostrated. I heard the tree say (in prostration): (O Allah, reduce one of my sins with this (prostration), write me a reward with it, and make it a reward (good) for me in the (exalted) level.' Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: After that, I I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) reciting the verse of prostration and prostrating himself, and I heard our master reciting the word (mentioned) that the man conveyed from a tree while prostrating."
1107-) - “... from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh); He said: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prostrated, he would say: "
1108-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu'd-Darda' (radiy-Allâhu anh): He made eleven prostrations together with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (in connection with the recitation of the Qur’an). An-Najm (prostration in time) is one of them. "
1109-) - “... from Abud-Darda' (radiyallahu anh); He said: I made eleven prostrations with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). There was no verse from al-Mufassal (section) among them. They are (the surahs in which it is found): Al-A'raf, er-Ra'd, an-Nahl, Bani Israel (= Isra), Meryem, al-Hac, al-Furkan, an-Nami, as-Sajda, Sad and They are the prostrations of the Fussilat surahs. "
1110-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin al-As (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) taught him the fifteen verses of prostration found in the Qur'an. Three of them are in the chapter of Mufassal and two of them are in the chapter of Hajj. "
1111-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): He said: We together with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): . . . . . . We prostrated in the prostration verses of the surahs. "
1112-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: No doubt the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); prostrated in the prostration verse of the time.
1113-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (One day) A man entered the Masjid and prayed (two rak'ahs). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was on one side of the mosque. After the man prayed, he came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and greeted him. He said: "Aleyke' (s-Salam) come back and pray (again). Because you did not pray. ) ordered. The man returned (again) after praying and came and greeted the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He said: "Aleyke' (s-Salam) come back and pray (again). Because you haven't prayed yet. ) ordered. (The man came after praying again. When he realized that the prayer he offered after the greeting was not again) in the third (interview) the man said: So teach me, O Messenger of Allah! said. He also said: When you get up, do your wudu' completely. Then stand towards the qibla and say takbir. After (starting the prayer like this), recite what is easy for you from the Qur'an. Then bow down and stay in bowing until your limbs calm down. Then lift up (head) and stand upright until the bones settle in their joints. Then come to prostration and stay in prostration until the limbs are calm. Then raise your head and sit until the bones are settled in your knuckles. Then (except takbir) do this in all rak'ahs of your prayer. ) commanded. "
1114-) - “... From Muhammad bin Amr bin Ata' (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard Abu Humayd es-Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anhum) say the following in a place where Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh) had ten Companions: Abu Humayd said to the Companions there: “I know better than any of you,” he said. Companions asked him: Why (you know better)? You have not followed in His footsteps more than any of us. They said, 'You haven't had a conversation with him before any of us. Abu Humayd (radiyallahu anh) said: No, I know his way better than any of you. The Companions said to him: Then tell (let's see). Abu Humayd (radiy-Allâhu anh): When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood up for prayer, he would say takbir. He used to raise his hands up to the level of his shoulders (while saying takbeer) and stop for a while. Then he would read. Then he would say takbeer and raise his hands up to his shoulders. Then, bowing, he would put the palms of his hands on his knees and lean on them. He would neither lower his head nor raise it above the waist, keeping it in line with the nape of the waist. Later: . . . . . ' he said, raising his hands up to his shoulders. He would stand (standing) until all the bones (of the spine) were located in his joints. Then he would descend to the ground (for prostration). He used to keep his arms away from his sides (in prostration). Then he would raise his head (from prostration) and sit on it with his left foot on the ground. When he prostrated, he would bend the toes of both feet (to the qibla and their bottoms to the ground). Then he would prostrate (for the second time). Then he would say takbir and sit on his left foot (putting his feet on the ground) until every bone (of the spine) returns to its place. Then he would stand up. And he would do the same in the second rak'ah. Then, when he stood up from the second rak'ah (third rak'ah), he would raise his hands up to the level of his shoulders, as he did when starting the prayer. Then he would perform the remaining rak'ahs of his prayer in this way. Finally, after performing the prostration to be followed by salutation, he would sit on his left side by pulling his left foot back (= pulling it out from under it to his right side), he said. Companions: You are correct. They said, 'The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray as you described.
1115-) - “... from Amreta (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I asked Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) how was the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)? I asked. He said: When he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) wanted to make wudu, when he put his hands in the water bowl, he would mention the name of Allah and perform his wudu completely (and perfectly). Then he would stand towards the qibla and say takbir and raise his hands up to the level of his shoulders. Then he would bow. He used to put his hands on his knees (in ruku') and keep his arms (from his sides). Then he would raise his head and straighten his back, and it would take him a little longer to stand up than yours. He would put his hands (on the ground) towards the qibla (in prostration) and, as far as I could see, he would move his arms (from their sides) with all his might. Then he would raise his head and sit on his left foot (which he laid on the ground) and plant his right foot. Leaning (sitting) on his left side would make a difference. "
1116-) - “... From Umar (bin el-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh); He said: "As the language of Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) has proven, the obligatory prayer (with four rak'ahs) is two rak'ahs while traveling, the Friday fard is two rak'ahs, the Eid prayer is two rak'ahs. . "
1117-) - “... From Umar (bin al-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh): He said: As it is proven by the tongue of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) the fard prayer (four rak'ats) is two rak'ahs while traveling. The Friday fard is two rak'ahs, two eid prayers are two rak'ahs each. This is okay, it's not a muscle. "
1118-) - “... From Ya'lâ bin Umayya (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said to Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh)! Allah: (When you travel on earth, if you fear that the disbelievers will harm and harm you, there is no sin on you for shortening your prayers.) Nisa: 101 (said. ) However, now the people are safe. (What do you say to the people shortening their prayers when they are safe)? I asked. Omar (radiyallahu anh) : I was also surprised by the thing that surprised you, so I asked the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) about it. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is a charity given to you by Allah. Therefore, accept the alms of Allah. ) said. "
1119-) - “... According to what is reported from Umayya bin Abdillah bin Khalid (radiyallahu anh), he is Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma). : We find the decree of prayer and fear in the Qur'an. However, we can't find the rule of prayer (during the journey) in the Qur'an, Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh) asked himself: Allah sent us Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as a Prophet when we knew nothing. For this reason, he replied, "As Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) does, we do it only as we see it from him." "
1120-) - “... From (Abdullah) Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: When he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) left this town (Madina-i Münevvere), he would not perform any fard (except the evening fard) more than two rak'ahs until he returned to it. "
1121-) - “... (Abdullah) from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: In the language of your Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) he made it obligatory (four rak'ahs of prayer) as four rak'ahs at the time and two rak'ahs at a time. "
1122-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) no enemy is following him, no enemy is afraid of him, and there is no one to rush him. For no reason, he would perform the evening and night prayers together on the journey. "
1123-) - “... from Muâz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: On his journey to the Battle of Tabuk, the Prophet (pbuh) performed the noon and afternoon fards, as well as the evening and night prayers together. "
1124-) - “... From Hafs bin Asim bin Omer bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anhum); He said: We were with bin Omar (radiyallahu anh) on the journey (my uncle Abdullah). Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh) led us in prayer. After the fard (without performing circumcision), he and we both turned away. On his return, Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) saw that some of the congregation were standing up and praying: What are they doing? she asked. I said: They perform circumcision. Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh): 'If I had performed the Sunnah (on the journey), I would have performed my fard (not brazen) complete. O my brother's son! I became friends with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). He did not pray more than two rak'ahs (obligatory prayers) during his journey until his death. Then I became friends with Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh). He did not perform more than two rak'ahs. Then I became friends with Omar (radiyallahu anh). He himself did not perform more than two rak'ahs. After that, I became friends with Osman (radiyallahu anh). He did not perform more than two rak'ahs. This was the case until these people passed away. Allahu ta'ala says: Believers! Indeed, the Messenger of Allah is the best example for you.) "
1125-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made the hazar prayer and the expedition prayer obligatory. We used to perform circumcision before and after the fard. We used to perform circumcision before and after the fard. "
1126-) - “... From Abdurrahman bin Humayd al-Zuhri (radiyallahu anhuma); He said to es-Sâib bin Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anh): what (judgment) have you heard about dwelling? I asked. He said: I heard al-Alâ' bin al-Hadramî (radiy-Allâhu anh) say: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said; After the circumambulation, there is a license for the immigrant (in Mecca) to reside for three (nights).
1127-) - “... from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) arrived in Mecca on the morning of the fourth day of Dhul-Hijjah. "
1128-) - “... From Abdullah Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: During his conquest, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stayed in Mecca for nineteen days and prayed two rak'ahs (four rak'ah fard prayers). When we stay for nineteen days, we perform our prayers in two rak'ahs. When we pray more than this, we pray four rak'ahs. "
1129-) - “... From Abdullah Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) In the year of the conquest, he would stay in Mecca for fifteen nights and pray. "
1130-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: We set out from Medina to Mecca (for the farewell pilgrimage) with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed the four rak'ah obligatory prayers as two rak'ahs until our return to Madina. He said: I asked the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) how many days he stayed in Mecca. Anas (radiyallahu anh) replied: Ten days. "
1131-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Between unbelief and disbelief is abandoning the prayer (alone). )
1132-) - “... According to what is reported from Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The covenant (contracted) between them is prayer. Whoever abandons the prayer becomes a disbeliever. )
1133-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There is nothing between him and shirk but to leave the prayer. In this respect, when the servant abandons the prayer, he commits shirk. )
1134-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) delivered the following khutbah to us: People! Repent to Allah before you die. Before you get busy, rush to good deeds. Bring your Lord's right over you to its place by remembering your Lord a lot and by giving alms (giving) secretly and openly, so that you may be provided with sustenance, help and improvement. You should know that on this day of this month of this year that I am in, and here until the Day of Judgment, Allah has made the Friday prayer obligatory for you. Whoever abandons the Friday prayer while I am alive or after me, when there is a just or cruel president at his head, may Allah not put his work in order and bless him in his work. Know that, unless he repents, neither his prayer, zakat, pilgrimage, fasting, nor any good deeds are valid. Whoever repents, Allah will accept (or accept) his repentance. Be aware that no woman can lead any man in prayer. No Bedouin can be an imam for any emigrant. No sinner can lead any believer (= non-fasiq) in prayer. Unless the sinner uses force, and the believer is afraid of his sword and truncheon (a believer warns.))
1135-) - “... From Abdurrahman bin Ka'b bin Malik (radiyallahu anhuma), he said: I used to eat him when (Ka'b)'s eyes disappeared. Whenever I took him to the Friday prayer, when he heard the Friday prayer, he would ask for forgiveness and pray for Abu Umama Es'ad bin Zurare. Although I heard this from him, I waited for a while. (I didn't ask for your wisdom.) Then I said to myself = By Allah, my waiting is a weakness. Whenever he hears the Friday prayer, I always hear him praying and asking for forgiveness for Abu Umama: 'What is this? I'm not asking your wisdom. Then I took him again as I take him every Friday before. When he heard the adhan, he asked for forgiveness (for Abu Umama) as he always does. I said to him: Whenever you hear the Friday prayer, you pray for Es'ad bin Zurare. “Let me know what the reason is,” I said. Himself: son! It was he who led us the first Friday prayer in the Hezm (town) of Harre (village) belonging to Beni Peyâda in Nakiü'l Hadamat (area), when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) had not visited Mecca yet. said. Me: how many people were you in the day (Friday prayer)? I asked. He said: Forty men (we were) "
1136-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzayfa and Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He misled those before us from Friday. For Jews (as a day of worship) there is a Saturday. Sunday is also Christian. Now they have remained behind us until the Day of Judgment. We are the last of the people of the world. And (on the Day of Judgment) we will be the ones who will be judged before all creatures. )
1137-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Lubabe bin Abdulmunzir (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Friday is the greatest and most lofty of days in the sight of Allah. It is greater than the days of Eid-al-Adha and Eid-al-Fitr in the sight of Allah. It has five virtues. Allah created Adam (Alayhis Salam) on that day, Allah brought Adam (Aleyhis Salam) down (from Paradise) to the ground that day, and Allah killed Adam (Aleyhis Salam) that day. There is such an hour on that day that whatever the (believer) servant asks for from Allahu ta'ala, He will certainly give it unless he asks for something haram. Doomsday will come on that day. Angels, who have reached the highest rank, are afraid of Friday, the sky, the earth, the winds, the mountains and the sea. There is not a single individual (of the aforementioned beings) who is not afraid of this day. )
1138-) - “... According to what is reported from Shaddad bin Evs (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Friday is one of your most virtuous days. Adam (Aleyhis Salam) was created in him. Nefha (second trumpet blowing) is in it. And sa'ka (the first trumpet) is in it. From now on, bring a lot of blessings on me. Because your salawat (on that day) is presented to me. ) A man asked: Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) when your body has been eaten by the earth (Shaddad said), that is, how can our salawat be presented to you when it is rotten? The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): He forbade it to eat the corpses of the prophets. ) commanded. "According to what is reported from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: As long as the sins are not committed, Friday (prayer) will be expiation for the (minor) sins committed between two Fridays.)
1140-) - “... According to what is reported from Evs bin Evs es-Sakafi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he himself said; I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he said: On Friday, he makes sexual contact with his wife and performs ablution (to the mosque for Friday prayer) early; (there) he engages in worship (or catches up with the sermon); he goes on foot and never gets on a mount; sits close to the imam; If he listens to the sermon and does not speak at all, for every step he takes, he will gain the reward of a year of fasting (daytime) and worshiping at night. )
1141-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: I heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say on the pulpit: If he comes to Friday prayer, he should make ghusl (first). ) "... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is obligatory for everyone who has reached the age of maturity to have a ghusl on Friday. )
1144-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever makes wudu on the day will be satisfied with this (wudu license) and will gain virtue. How beautiful is this (license). The fard would have done enough. Whoever makes a ghusl is more virtuous. )
1145-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When the day comes, there are angels at each of the doors of the mosque. They write the people (who came to the mosque) in the order that they came first (first, second, third). When the imam (minbar) ascends, the angels roll up the notebooks and listen to the sermon. It is as if the one who deports to the prayer (who arrives early) has given alms, a camel, a cattle following him, and a ram coming after him. (Finally, he mentioned a chicken and an egg. The narrator Sahl added the following in his narration.) A person who comes to the mosque after the imam ascends the pulpit comes only to receive the reward of prayer. )
1146-) - “... from Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) explained the example of Friday and going early (as charity) by comparing it to the one who slaughters the camel, the one who slaughters the cattle, and the one who slaughters the sheep (as charity). While making this analogy, he finally mentioned the chicken. "
1147-) - “... from Alkama (radiyallahu anh); He said: I went to the Friday prayer with Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh). When he found three people (in the mosque) who had gone before him: (I am) the fourth of the four. The fourth (divine favor and mercy) is not far away. Undoubtedly, I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say, He said: According to the order of going to Fridays first, second and third, they will have a position close to Allah (close to His mercy and bounty) on the Day of Judgment. ) Then Abdullah said: (I am) the fourth of four people, the fourth one is not far away (from divine favor and mercy). "
1148-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Salam (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) heard himself (with his ear) saying on the pulpit on a Friday: It is okay if one of you buys a suit for Friday other than work clothes. ) ...
1150-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) delivered a sermon to the people on Friday and saw their nimâr cardigans on them, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is no harm in buying a suit for Friday, other than work clothes, if any of you finds financial means.” does not exist.)"
1151-) - "... According to what is narrated from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He performs ghusl (in accordance with the procedure) thoroughly on Friday, cleans himself well, and puts on a set of his best clothes. If Allah wears the scent of the fragrance of the household, he goes to the Friday prayer, listens to the sermon properly, and does not cause any harm to the two people sitting next to each other, his (minor) sins between that Friday and the other (past) Friday will be forgiven. . )
1152-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "This Friday is a feast day that Allah has assigned to Muslims. Now, anyone who wants to come to the Friday prayer should take a long ablution. And if there is a good smell, let it be rubbed off. Never stop using miswak. )
1153-) - “... Sahl bin Sa'd (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) said: We used to do the Qaylulet rest and fast food after the Friday prayer. ".....Salama bin al-Ekva' (radiyallahu anh) said: We used to perform the Friday prayer together with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam).
1155-) - “... According to what is narrated from Sa'd al-Karaz (radiy-Allâhu anh), the muezzin of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): While alive (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), Sa’d (radiy-Allâhu anh) On Friday, when the shadow was as big as the leash of the shoe, he would call the azan. "
1156-) - “... From Anas (bin Malik) (radiy-Allâhu anh): We used to perform the Friday prayer, then return (to our homes) and rest Kaylulet. "
1157-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to deliver two sermons (before the Friday prayer). He would sit for a while between two sermons (he would not speak during this sitting). Bishr, in his narration: . . . . . = added the sentence "while standing". " ". . From Amr bin Hurays (radiyallahu anh); He said: I saw the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) delivering a sermon on the pulpit and wearing a black turban on his (blessed) head. "
1159-) - “... from Jabir bin Samura (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to deliver a sermon standing up. But the thing is, it just sat a bit. Then he got up. "
1160-) - “... from Jabir bin Samura (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to deliver a sermon standing up. Then he would sit. Then he would stand up, recite verses (in the second sermon) and remember Allah. His sermon was neither long nor short. The Friday prayer was neither long nor short. "
1161-) - “... From Sa'd (al-Karaz) (radiyallahu anh): He said: While the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was addressing the war, he used to lean on the bow (holding it) and gave a sermon on Friday. time rested on the staff (which he held in his hand). "
1162-) - “... from Alkama (radiyallahu anh); He said: Did the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) deliver sermons standing or sitting? Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh) was asked a question. Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) also (to the questioner): : . . . . . . 'You don't read the verse = (and they left you standing),' he replied. "
1163-) - “... from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: When he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ascended the pulpit, he would greet (the people there). ".
1164-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: On the day when the imam was delivering the sermon, when you (just) said to your friend, “silence” (again) lağv ( =: You're dealing with Abes. ) "
1165-) - “... From Ubayy bin Ka'b (radiyallahu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the chapter 'Tabaraka' standing up (in his sermon) on Friday. He advises us (warning) with the days of Allah (speaking of great events that will take place in his day). Abu'd-Darda or Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh) poked me: When was the surah revealed? “I have not heard this surah until now,” he said. Ubayy (radiyallahu anh) pointed to him: When they turned away from the prayer, I asked the owner of the question (Ubayy (radiy-Allâhu anh) when this surah was revealed. You didn't tell me?' The questioner went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and told what happened between him and Ubayy (radiyallahu anh) during the sermon, and he related what Ubayy (radiyallahu anh) said to him after the prayer. wa sallam) : he said the truth. ) he said. "
1166-) - “... from Jabir bin Abdulah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: While (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was delivering the sermon (on Friday), Sulayk al-Gatafani (radiy-Allâhu anh) entered the mosque. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked: “Did you pray? Sulayk (radiyallahu anh): No! said. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (Then, perform two rak'ahs). '..... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): A man came while the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was delivering a sermon (on Friday). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ?) The man said: No! The Prophet (peace be upon him) said: (Perform two rak'ahs). "
1168-) - “... From Abu Hurayra and Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); They said: While (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was delivering the sermon, Sulayk al-Gatafani (radiy-Allâhu anh) came. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) asked him, "Did you pray two rak'ahs before you came?" Sulayk (radiyallahu anh) said: No. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Perform two rak'ahs of prayer and keep them light." "
1169-) - “... from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was delivering the sermon on Friday, a man entered the mosque and started to jump over the congregation. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said (to him): sit down! You both persecuted (congregation) and were late. ) commanded. "
1170-) - “... According to what is reported from Muâz bin Enes (al-Juhenî) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “If he jumps over the people (sitting in the mosque) on Friday, that person A bridge will be built on the way to hell.)
1171-) - “... From Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh). He said: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) descended from the pulpit on Friday (after the sermon), he would speak when needed. "
1173-) - “... Ubeydullah bin Abdillah (bin Utba) (radiyallahu anhuma) reportedly said: bin Kays (radiyallahu anh) wrote a letter to Numan bin Bashir (radiyallahu anhuma) to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi He asked, "Tell us what the Prophet recited in the Friday prayer (in the first rak'ah) together with the Friday Surah (in the second rak'ah)"? Numan: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) In the second rakat of the Friday prayer; . . . He would recite Surah ., he replied. "
1174-) - “... From Abu Inebe al-Havlani (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said during the Friday prayer (in the first rak'ah); . . . . and (in the second rak'ah); . . . . He recited the surah. "
1175-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever catches up with one rak'ah of his prayer, should add one rak'ah to that rak'ah. )
1176-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever catches up with one rak'ah, he has reached that prayer." )
1177-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: 'Whoever catches up with one rak'ah of his prayer or any other prayer, he has reached that prayer. )
1178-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: On Friday, the people of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to perform the Friday prayer together with him (by coming to his mosque). "
1179-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ebi'l-Ca'd ed-Demrî (radiy-Allâhu anh), who was honored as a Companion; The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Whoever misses the Friday prayer three times because he does not care much, his heart will be sealed.)
1180-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Allah seals the heart of those who leave the Friday prayer three times without an excuse. )
1181-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Is it possible for any of you to gather a herd of cattle a couple of miles away (from the city), so that it becomes impossible to obtain grass there and go further away, then when it is time for Friday prayer, he will not come and perform it himself. If it is (second) Friday, he (again) should not perform it, and on (third) Friday, he should not come and perform it. (This unexpected action from any of you) finally causes the (owner's) heart to be sealed. )
1182-) - “... According to what he narrated from Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person who does not even attend the Friday prayer should give one gold as charity, and if he is unable to do so, he should give half gold as charity." )
1183-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray four rak'ats before the Friday fard. He would not greet between these four rak'ahs. "
1184-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abdullah bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): when he performed his fard, he would go back (from the mosque) and pray two rak'ats in his house. Then he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to do this. "
1185-) - “... From Sâlim's father (Ibn-i Omar) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He would pray two rak'ahs (at home) after the Friday fard. "
1186-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said; He said: 'When you pray after the fard, perform four rak'ahs. )
1187-) - “... From Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhum): He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade sitting in a circle in the mosque before the Friday prayer. " " From Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade sitting in the form of contemplation on Friday. The narrator said: That is, while the imam is delivering the sermon. "
1189-) - “... from Saib bin Yazid (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had only one muezzin. When Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ascended (to the pulpit on Friday), the muezzin would call the adhan, and when he descended (from the pulpit after the sermon), he would bring residence. Abu Bakr and Umar (radiyallahu anhuma) were like that (when they were caliphs). When Osman (radiy-Allâhu anh) became the caliph and the congregation increased, he added the third call (the first adhan that is being recited) on the building called Zevra in the bazaar. When Uthman (radiyallahu anh) ascended the pulpit, the muezzin would call the call to prayer, and when he descended from the pulpit, the muezzin would reside. "
1190-) - “... From Adiyy bin Thabit's father (Sabit) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): When (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood on the pulpit for the sermon, the Companions would turn their faces towards him. "
1191-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): There is such an hour in his day that God grants the wish of every Muslim man who comes across that hour and prays at it and asks for goodness from God. ) commanded. And he gestured with his (blessed) hand to show that (that hour) was short. "..... From Amr bin Awf al-Muzeni (radiyallahu anh). He said: I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). He said: (There is an hour in the daytime on Friday. He was asked, "What time is it?"
1193-) - “... From Abdullah bin Salam (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: In a meeting where the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) was sitting, I said: Surely, we find this in the Book of Allah (the Torah): There is an hour on Friday that coincides with it, praying and doing something from Allah. Allah grants the wish of every believing servant who wishes. ' He said: Upon my words, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) pointed to me, saying: (Or a piece of a clock). Me: You're right, (or it's part of a clock), I corrected my statement. (By the way) Me: What time is this? I asked. He said: (It is the last of the daylight hours.) I said: The last hour of the day is not prayer time. He said: (No (it is the time of prayer.) Because as long as the believer performs the prayer and sits in his place with the intention of waiting for the prayer time to come after the prayer, he is counted within the prayer in terms of virtue.) "
1194-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If he continues to perform 12 rak'ahs of circumcision every day, a house will be built for him in Paradise, four rak'ahs before the noon fard, two rak'ahs after the noon fard, two rak'ahs after the evening fard, night prayer. two rak'ahs after the fard and two rak'ahs before the morning fard.)
1195-) - “... According to what is reported from Umma Habîba bint-i Abi Sufyan (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), (one of the respected wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) – the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he prays twelve rak'ahs (sunnah) during the day and night, a house will be built for him in Paradise. )
1196-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he performs twelve rak'ahs (except the fard) per day, a house will be built for him in Paradise. Two rak'ahs before the morning fard, two rak'ahs before and after the noon fard, two rak'ahs (I think he said) before the afternoon fard, two rak'ahs after the evening fard, and two rak'ahs (I think he said) after Isha fard. )
1197-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to pray two rak'ahs (before the morning fard) when the dawn was bright. "
1198-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to pray two rak'ahs before the morning (fard) as if the call to prayer was in his ears.
1199-) - “... From Hafsa bint-i Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), one of the respected wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Before getting up, he would pray two rak'ahs, which he kept lightly."
1200-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made wudu, he would go to prayer after performing two rak'ahs. "
1201-) - “... from Ali (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to pray two rak'ahs when he was going to reside. "
1202-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in the two rak'ahs before the morning fard (after the Fatiha): and; He recited his surahs.
1203-) - “... From Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: I looked at the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) for a month. in the two rak'ahs before the fard (after Fatiha); . . . . . . He recited his surahs. "
1204-) ... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to pray two rak'ahs before the morning fard and said: How beautiful are two surahs.) It is recited in the two rak'ahs before the morning fard (after the Fatiha). (These surahs); . . . . and . . . . . . (the suras).
1205-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "No prayer other than the obligatory prayer should be performed (or not performed) when he is going to reside for it."
1207-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Sarjis (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (one day) while performing the morning fard: he saw a man busy performing the two rak'ahs before the morning fard and prayed to the man after he made it: Filan)! Which of these two prayers do you count as a prayer?) "From Abdullah bin Malik bin Buhayne (al-Azdi) (radiyallahu anh) he said: While he was sitting for the morning prayer, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) passed by a man who was standing in the sunnah and said something to him. What When he left the prayer, we gathered around this man and asked him: What did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say to you? The man said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me, You will make it.)"
1209-) - “... From Kays bin Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (one day) was a man. He saw him praying two rak'ahs after the morning fard and the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to him: (Do you perform the morning prayer twice?) and the man said to him: I had not performed the two rak'ahs before the morning prayer, but I answered him.
1210-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) missed the morning sunnah by staying asleep and made it up after the sun came up. "
1211-) - “... Kaabûs (bin ebi'l-Mahârık) (radiy-Allâhu anh) said, in a narration from his father, Abu'l-Mahârik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He sent a message to ) and asked which prayer was the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) prayer that he liked to perform the most, and Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) replied: he made a horse. He would keep the standing (= Qiraat) long in this and would make his bowing and prostrations beautiful. "
1212-) - “... From Abu Ayyub (al-Ansari) (radiyallahu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to pray four rak'ahs (prayer) before the fard of the noon prayer, when the noon time entered. He would not greet between the horses. And he said: When it shifts from the middle of the sky to the west, the doors of the sky will certainly be opened (for those four rak'ahs). )
1213-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: When he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) missed the four rak'ahs (sunnah) before the noon fard, he would perform it after the two rak'ahs at the end of the noon fard. "Abdillah (Our Author) said: Only Qays narrated this hadith from the Branch.
1214-) - “... From Abdullah bin al-Haris (radiyallahu anh); He said: Muawiya (radiy-Allâhu anh) sent (a messenger) to Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) (the honorable wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) one day). I went with the ambassador. He asked the ambassador Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ). Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) replied: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had sent an official (to collect zakat). (One day) he was making ablution in my room for the noon prayer. There were many immigrants with him. He took great care of them. At this time, the door was knocked. He also went to the door. Then he made the noon obligatory and sat down to distribute the zakat brought by the collector. Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha) said: She was busy with this work until the afternoon prayer. After performing the Asr fard, he entered my room and prayed two rak'ahs (prayer). Then he said: Because I was busy with his work, I did not perform these two rak'ahs after the noon prayer, but after the afternoon prayer. )
1216-) - “... From Asim bin Damra es-Saluli (radiyallahu anh); He said: We asked Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) the sunnah prayer that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed during the day. He said: You are not able to perform this sunnah (continuously). We said to him: You let us know, we'll take what we can from it. He said: When he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) made the morning fard, he would delay performing the prayer. Finally, at the time of the afternoon prayer, when the sun was higher (at an altitude) from here, that is, from the western horizon, he would get up and perform two rak'ahs (sunnah). After that, he would delay the prayer. At the time of the noon prayer, when the sun was higher than the eastern horizon, he would get up and perform four rak'ahs (sunnah). When the sun left the middle of the sky (= when the noon time entered), he would perform four rak'ahs (sunnah) before the noon fard. He would pray two rak'ahs (sunnah) after the noon fard and four rak'ahs (sunnah) before the afternoon fard. The first two rak'ahs of these four rak'ahs and the last two rak'ahs, Mukarrabîn to the angels. He used to distinguish between the prophets and the Muslims who followed them and the believers by greeting them. (radiyallahu anh): The daytime sunnah of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) is these sixteen rak'ahs. “Few continue to do so,” he said.
1217-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mugaffel (al-Muzeni) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “There is a prayer between two adhans (i.e. both adhans and iqama). ) (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said this three times. The third time he said: (For anyone who wishes). "
1218-) - “... From Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh). He said: While he was alive (for the evening fard), the muezzin really used to call the adhan. (But) because of the large number of people who got up and performed the two rak'ahs (nafilah) before the evening fard, it was thought to be iqamah. "
1219-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, he used to perform the evening prayer (the fard of it in the mosque), then he returned to my room and recited two rak'ahs (sunnat) from Rafi' bin Hadic (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had visited us in the tribe of Banî Abdil-Eşhel. He led us the evening prayer in our mosque. Then: perform two rak'ahs (sunnah) in your homes. ) commanded. "
1221-) - “... From Abdullah bin Mes'ud (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said in the two rak'ats after the evening fard (after Fatiha): . . . . . and; . . . . . . He would read (times). "
1222-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If he prays six rak'ahs (sunnah) after the evening prayer (in fard) without saying bad words, this (sunnah) is equivalent to twelve years of worship for him. )
1223-) - “... From Harice bin Huzafe al-Adevi (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) came to us (leaving his house for the morning prayer) and said: Allah has bestowed upon you a prayer that is better than the world and all that is in it. This is the witr prayer. Allahu ta'ala has permitted you to perform this prayer between the night prayer and the dawning of dawn. ) commanded. "
1224-) - “... from Ali bin Abi Ta'lib (radiyallahu anh); He said: It is not necessary to perform the witr prayer behemahal. It is not like your fard prayers. However, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed the witr prayer and then said: People of the Qur'an! Perform the witr prayer. Because Allah is witr (= one) and loves witr. )
1225-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Allah is Witr (only one), He loves Witr. O people of the Qur'an! Perform your witr prayer. ) a'râbi asked Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh): What does the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say? asked Abdullah (radiyallahu anh). - This judgment is neither for you nor for your friends. (It is reserved for memories) he said. "
1226-) - “... From Ubayy bin Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform the witr prayer with the times of Fatiha. "
1227-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to perform the witr prayer after Fatiha and at its times. ...
1229-) - “... from Abdulaziz bin Gureye (radiyallahu anh); She said: We asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha) what the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited in the witr prayer (after Fatiha). He said: He is in the first rak'ah after Fatiha. . . . in the second rak'ah; . . . . and in the third rak'ah; . . . . He would recite the surahs, he replied. "
1230-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform the night prayer in two rak'ahs and he would perform one rak'ah witr. "
1231-) - “... According to what Abu Miclez (radiyallahu anh) narrated from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhu); Ibn 'Umar said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: His prayer is two rak'ahs, and his witr (prayer) is one rak'ah. ) Miclez: I said to Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma): Tell me! If I can't open my eyes from sleep. Tell me! What if I fell asleep? said. Ibn 'Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) said to me: Please turn off the (showcase) at the time of that star's (appearance). I raised my head (to the sky). I saw that the star of Simak (pointed by him) can be seen. Then Ibn-i Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) repeated the hadith: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: His prayer is two rak'ahs. Witr (prayer) is also a rak'ah (performed) before Fajr. )
1232-) - “... From Al-Muttalib bin Abdulah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The man said to Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anhuma): How should I perform the witr prayer? she asked. When Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) replied, “Perform a single rak'at of witr,” the man said, “I am afraid that the people will say butayra (= stump) (for a single-rak'ah prayer that I will perform). Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anhuma): . . . . . . . . said. That is: This prayer (with one rak'ah) is the sunnah of Allah and His Messenger. ( = It is an act of worship that they make legitimate. )
1233-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would greet at the end of every two rak'ahs and would perform witr as a single rak'ah. "
1234-) - “... From Hasan bin Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: My grandfather Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) taught me the following sentences that I was reciting in his (prayer) qunut: (O Allah! Free me from trouble in this world and in the hereafter, free me from troubles. Order (or love me too), make me worthwhile with those you have guided. Protect me from the evil of destiny. Bless the blessings you have given me. Surely you can judge (with whatever you wish), you cannot be judged. Surely, your beloved (servant) will not be humiliated, you are pure from all kinds of deficiencies. O Our Lord! Your goodness (and goodness) is abundant, you are decent and clean from everything that is not worthy of your personality.)
1235-) - “... from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to say after the witr prayer: I seek refuge in your consent from your anger. I seek refuge in your forgiveness from your punishment, I seek refuge in you from your punishment. I cannot praise you in a way worthy of you. You have the lofty qualities and superior perfection that you praise. )
1236-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) would not raise his hands (into the air) in any of his prayers other than the prayer of rain. He would raise his hands (into the air) until the whiteness of his armpits could be seen (in the rain prayer). "
1237-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma) reported that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When you pray, pray with the palms of your hands (raising your hands up). Do not pray with the outsides of your palms. When you stop praying, rub the palms of your hands on your face. )
1238-) - “... From Ubayy bin Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform the witr prayer and recite qunut before ruku' (in the last rak'at of the vitrine). "
1239-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He was asked about Qunut in the morning prayer; “We used to recite qunut before and after ruku,” he replied. "
1240-) - “... Muhammad (bin Sirin) (radiyallahu anh) reportedly said: I asked Anas bin Malik (radiyallahu anh) about the condition of kunut (in the morning prayer). He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited Kunut after ruku'. "
1241-) - “... From Masrûk (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I asked Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed the witr prayer. Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said: She has performed witr before, in the middle of the night, at all times. At the end of his life, the witr prayer would end towards the dawn. "
1242-) - “... from Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the witr prayer at all times of the night, before and in the middle of the night. The vitriol ended towards the time of dawn. "
1243-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Those of you who fear that you will not be able to wake up should perform the witr prayer before the night, and then go to sleep. Those of you who hope to wake up at the end of the night should perform the witr prayer at the end of the night. Because at the end of the night, the angels are ready to read the Qur'an. It is virtuous to read the Qur'an at the end of the night. ) "
1244-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Whoever falls asleep or forgets before performing the witr prayer (before dawn), let him perform it when he wakes up or when it comes to his mind. )
1245-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Perform the witr prayer before dawn (= before dawn). )
1246-) ... According to what is narrated from Abu Ayyub-i Ansari (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "His (divine prayer) is a right. Now, whoever wishes, let him perform five rak'ahs, if he wishes, let him perform three rak'ahs, and whoever wishes, let him perform one rak'ah. )
1247-) - “... Sa'd bin Hisham (bin Amir al-Ansari) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) reportedly said: I said to Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): Mother of believers! I asked him to tell me about the witr prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) (the nature, time and number of rak'ahs). He said: We used to prepare the miswak and ablution water for him. At night, when Allah wished, He would wake him from sleep. He would use the miswak (when he woke up from sleep), perform ablution, and perform nine rak'ahs (without greeting, one after the other). He would not sit in tashahhu until the eighth rak'ah. After the eighth rak'ah (tashahhuda), he would sit and pray to his Lord. He used to remember Allah, praise and pray to Him. Then, without saluting, he would stand up and stand. After performing the ninth rak'ah, he would sit and remember Allah, praise Him, pray to his Lord and send salawat on his Prophet. Then he would greet us so that we could hear it. After the salutation, he would perform two rak'ahs sitting down. Here they are all eleven rak'ahs. When Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) grew old and became fleshy, he would perform seven rak’ats of witr. And after this, he would pray two rak'ahs (sitting). "
1248-) - “... from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform witr in seven or five rak'ats. He would not take a break between these rak'ahs by saluting or speaking. "
1250-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas and (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (his four-rak'ah fards) as two rak'ahs while traveling made it legitimate. Two rak'ahs are complete, not abbreviated. It is sunnah to perform the witr prayer while traveling. "
1251-) - “... From Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to perform the two rak'ahs (nafilah) that he kept lightly after sitting down. ".. From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) she would pray one rak'ah of the vitrine. Then she would pray two rak'ahs. She would recite these two rak'ahs while sitting. He would get up and then go to ruku'.
1253-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: I used to find the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) at the end of the night only lying next to me. (Or—I would have run into him.)
1254-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: When the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed the morning sunnah, he would lie on his right side. "
1255-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: When he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed the morning sunnah, he would lie on his (right) side. "
1256-) - “... from Said bin Yasar (radiyallahu anh); He said: I was with (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) (on a trip to Mecca). I stayed behind (towards the end of the night) and made my showcase. Then (when you caught up with him) why did you lag behind? she asked. When I replied: I performed the witr prayer, he himself said; Isn't the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) a good example for you? said. I said yes (it is a good example). He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to make witr on his camel. "
1257-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to perform the witr prayer on his camel. "
1258-) - “... From Câbir bin Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) asked Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh): When will you make the showcase? Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) replied, “After nightfall, before nightfall. Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): O Omar! (when will you do it?) he asked. Omar (radiyallahu anh) replied: At the end of the night. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Abu Bakr! You have kept the sanctioned (prudent) one. O Omar! And you took the (way) of strength. ) ... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh), and he explained the same. "
1260-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led the prayer. Either he did too much or he did less. (Râvi İbrahim said: This hesitation is from me.) Thereupon: O Messenger of Allah! Was something added to the prayer? it was said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): I am only a human being. I forget as you forget. When one of you forgets, let him make two prostrations while sitting). Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) turned to the qibla and made two prostrations. ) commanded. "
1261-) - "... According to what is reported from Iyaz (radiy-Allâhu anh), he asked Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh) a question, saying: He is praying but does not know how many rak'ats he has prayed. Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "If someone does not know how many rak'ahs he has prayed, let him complete the prayer according to the exact number of rak'ahs he knows and before saluting, he sits down." so let him prostrate twice. )
1262-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) led us the noon prayer as five rak'ahs. When he greets him, he asks: Was the prayer (rak'ah) added to it? it was said. The Prophet asked: (What is it?). The situation was explained to him. Thereupon, he bent his leg (prepared for prostration) and prostrated twice. "
1263-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Buhayne (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led (us) a prayer. I think it was the noon prayer. When he was in the second rak'ah (tashahhuda), he stood up without sitting down. Then he made two prostrations before saluting. "
1264-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Buhayne (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) forgot to sit in the second rak'ah of the noon prayer and stood up. When he finished his prayer and saluted, he made two sajdahs and saluted. "
1265-) - “... According to what is reported from al-Mughira bin Branch (radiyallahu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: when he gets up, let him sit down immediately (if he realizes it) before he gets up. And when he is just right (if he realizes), let him not sit anymore. (At the end of the prayer) let him make two prostrations of sahvin.)
1267-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When he falters in the rak'ahs of his prayer, let him slack off and build on what he knows (the rak'ahs) of which he certainly knows." When he believes that (the rak'ahs) are complete, let him prostrate twice (before salutation). If his prayer was full (more) (with two prostrations of sajdah) it would be a nafilah. If his prayer was incomplete, that rak'ah would be to complete his prayer. And the two (sahw) prostrations he makes at the end of the prayer are for the nose of the devil to crawl into the ground. )
1268-) - “... From Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led us a prayer. I don't know if it's too much or too little. The Prophet asked (us) the situation after the prayer. We told him (the situation). Thereupon, the Prophet bent his leg and turned to the qibla and made two prostrations. Then he saluted. After the salutation, he turned his face towards us and said: If there was something new about prayer, I would have informed you about it. I'm only human, like you, I forget. So remind me when I forget. And whoever of you breaks in prayer (rak'ahs), let the one closest to the truth test (search) and complete the prayer on him. Let him greet and prostrate twice). "
1269-) - “... from Abdullah bin Mes'ud (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When the prayer is broken in the number of rak'ahs, let him speak the truth, then make two prostrations. ) poster; That's the main thing. "No one can afford to deny it," he said. "
1270-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saluted (after noon or afternoon prayer), forgetting two rak'ahs. A man called Zülyedeyn. To the Prophet: O Messenger of Allah! Is the prayer shortened or have you forgotten? she asked. The Prophet said: (The prayer was not shortened, nor did I forget it). Zülyedeyn: He said to the Prophet: Then (I am on the floor): You prayed two rak'ahs! The Prophet asked (to those who were there this time): (Is it as Zülyedeynin said?). (The Companions:) They answered yes. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stepped forward and led two more rak'ahs. Then he made two prostrations of sahw. "
1271-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Sirin (radiyallahu anh); Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led us (once) one of the noon and afternoon prayers as two rak'ahs and greeted us. Then he stood up and leaned against the palm log inside the mosque where he was leaning (while the sermon was being delivered). Those who rushed out of the congregation left the mosque even though they said that the prayer was shortened. Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) and Umar (radiyallahu anh) were also in the congregation. These are two. They hesitated to say anything to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). There was also a man with long hands called Zûlyedeyn among the congregation. This man said: O Messenger of Allah! Is the prayer shortened? “Did you forget?” he asked. Upon this, the Prophet replied: "The prayer was not shortened, I did not forget it either." Zûlyedeyn (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: Surely, you have only prayed two rak'ahs. (This time) Our Master asked (the people there): (Is it like Zülyedeyn said?). (They said:) Yes, Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood up for prayer. He offered two more rak'ahs, then saluted, then prostrated twice, then saluted. "
1272-) - “... From Imran bin al-Husayn (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saluted (one day) in three rak'ats of the afternoon fard. Then, after getting up and entering his house, al-Hırbak, a man with long hands, stood up and said: Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)! Is the prayer shortened? he called. Thereupon, the Prophet came out in anger, dragging his izar, and asked (what had happened). When the (situation) was explained, our master performed the rak'ah that he had abandoned. Then he saluted. Then he made two prostrations. Then he saluted. "
1273-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Satan comes to one of you during prayer and comes between him and his heart (—confuses his prayer. ) Even (one of you) ) does not know whether it makes more or less. Now, when this happens, let him prostrate twice before saluting. Then say hi. )
1274-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: Satan comes between the son of man and his heart. (He takes it away from his purpose.) Now he cannot know how many rak'ahs he has prayed. When this happens to a man, let him prostrate twice before saluting. )
1275-) - “... According to what is reported from Alkame (radiy-Allâhu anh): (Abdullah) bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh) performed the sajdah prostrations after the salutation and explained that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did so. "
1276-) - “... According to what is reported from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He said, he said: There are two prostrations after the salutation for sajdah. )
1277-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to prayer (once). After reciting the takbir of iftitah, he gestured to the congregation (with his blessed hand to keep them in their place without disturbing their condition). Thereupon, the community waited for the situation. After he went and took his ablution (blessed), he led the congregation in prayer, even though water was dripping from his head. When he returned from the prayer and left, he said to the congregation: I came to you (from home) as junub and did not remember (the situation) until I entered the prayer. ) commanded. "
1278-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever experiences nausea without vomiting, nosebleeds, vomiting with nausea, and mezes while inside, should immediately turn around and perform ablution. Then he should (come) build on his prayer (complete the rest) and not speak at all during this time. )
1279-) - "... According to what Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) has narrated, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When his wudu is broken while performing prayers, he should hold his nose with his hand and then leave. ) ... ..... With her act, Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) narrated the like of it from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). "
1281-) - “... From Imran bin Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I was addicted to the disease of nasûr. I asked the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) how to perform the prayer. He said: hair. If you can't do it, do it sitting down, if you can't do it, do it by lying on your side.)
1282-) - “... from Vâil bin Hucr (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I saw the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) praying while he was sitting, leaning on his right side. "
1283-) - “... from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: I swear by (Allah) who captured the blessed soul of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to perform most of the prayers he performed while sitting. And the most beloved deed to him was the good deed that the servant does constantly, even if it is little. "
1284-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); . He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to recite while sitting (when he performed nafilah). When he wanted to ruku', he would stand up for a period of time that a person would recite forty verses, (then he would ruku').
1285-) - “... From Aisha (radiyallahu anha): She said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) standing up for the entire night prayer until he got old. I've never seen it do it in any other situation. After he got older, he started to perform sitting down. When forty or thirty verses remained from his recitation, he would stand up and recite it standing up. Then he would bow. "
1286-) - “... From Abdullah bin Shakîk al-Ukayli (radiyallahu anh): He said: I asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha) about the night prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: She used to perform (night prayer) standing for one long night and sitting down another long night. When he read while standing, he would bow while standing. And when he read while sitting, he would bow while sitting. "
1287-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (one day) the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) passed him while he was praying while sitting, then: the prayer offered is half the prayer offered standing. ) commanded. "
1288-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) left the house (one day) and saw a few people sitting and praying. Then, in terms of :) the prayer performed sitting is half of the prayer performed standing). "
1289-) - “... According to what is reported from Imran bin Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh): He asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the condition of the man who was sitting and praying; Upon this, our Master (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he prays standing up, he is the best. Whoever prays sitting, he will have half the reward of the person who prays standing. And whoever prays while lying down, his reward is half the reward of a person who prays sitting down. ) commanded.”
1290-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: When Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) died and fell ill (Abû Muâwiya said: When his illness got worse), Bilâl (radiy-Allâhu anh) came to inform him that it was time for prayer. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Convey my order to Abu Bakr. Let the congregation lead the prayer.” We: O Messenger of Allah! Abu Bakr really has a soft heart. When he takes your place, he cries and therefore cannot be heard (his voice to the congregation). That's why we asked Omar if you ordered him to lead the prayer. (Our Lord) said after this statement: (Send my order to Abu Bakr. Let him lead the congregation in prayer. Indeed, you are the women of Yusuf's (Prophet) day). "Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: Upon this, we conveyed the command to Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh). He felt a lightness in himself and went to pray between the two men and leaning on them. His feet were crawling on the ground. When Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) felt that he was coming, he began to retreat. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to him: (Do not leave your place). The narrator said that Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came forward. Finally, the men who helped him made him sit next to Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh). ) and the congregation followed the prayer of Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh).
1291-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) to lead the congregation in prayer during his (last) illness. Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) was now leading the congregation in prayer. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) left the house (to the masjid) feeling lightness. At that moment, Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) was leading the congregation in prayer. When Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) saw him, he wanted to retreat. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Be like him. ) he pointed. Then the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sat next to Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) in line with him. From now on, Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) was performing the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), and the congregation followed the prayer of Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh). "
1292-) - “... from Salim bin Ubayd (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) fainted during his (last) illness. Then when he sobered up, he asked: Is it time? Yes, they said. He said: (Convey my order to Bilal, let him call the adhan, and convey my order to Abu Bakr, let him lead the congregation in prayer). Then (again) passed out. Then he sobered up and asked: (Is it time for prayer?). Yes, they said. He said: (Order Bilal to call the adhan. Order Abu Bakr to lead the congregation in prayer.) Then he fainted again. Then, when she got sober, she asked: "Is it time for prayer?" They said, "Yes. He is a kind-hearted man. He will cry when he (your altar) will stand for prayer and will not be able to hear (the voice of the congregation). : "Order Bilal to call the adhan. Order Abu Bakr to lead the congregation in prayer. You are indeed the women of the day of Yusuf (the Prophet). It was conveyed to the Prophet (pbuh) and he recited the adhan. It was also conveyed to Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh). He also led the prayer in the congregation. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) felt lightness and said: (Look at the man who will take me to my seat and take me to the mosque) Thereupon, Barîre (radiy Allahu anhâ) and a man came. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went with them. When Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) saw him, he wanted to back down. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) pointed to him and wanted to say: (Stay in your place!). Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came forward. Finally, he sat next to Abu Bakr (radiy-Allāhu anh) and stood there until Abu Bakr (radiy-Allāhu anh) finished his prayer. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed away.
1293-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was in Aisha’s (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) room when she died. Meanwhile, he said: (Call me Ali). Aisha (radiyallahu anha): O Messenger of Allah! He said to you (Shall we call Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh). He said: (Call him). Hafsa (radiyallahu anha): O Messenger of Allah! He said to you (Shall we call Omar (radiyallahu anh). (Call him) commanded. Umm al-Fadl (radiyallahu anha): O Messenger of Allah! He said to you (Shall we call 'Abbas (radiyallahu anh). He: (Yes) he said. When the people gathered (beside him), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) looked up and did not say anything. After a while, Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: Get up and leave the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Later, Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) came to inform the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) that the time for prayer had come. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Order Abu Bakr to lead the congregation in prayer.” Thereupon, Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said: O Messenger of Allah! Indeed, Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) is a gentle-hearted man who is imprisoned by recitation. When he cannot see you (in prayer), he will weep, and the congregation will weep. I wish you would order Umar (radiyallahu anh) to lead the congregation in prayer, he said. Then Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) went out and led the congregation in prayer. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) felt a lightness in himself and went out (to the mosque) between the two men and leaning on them. His feet were crawling on the ground. When the congregation saw him, they warned Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) by simile. Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) also acted to retreat. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) pointed to him and wanted to say: (Stay in your place!). Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came forward and sat on the right side of Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh). Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) stood. Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) was following the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Congregation too. He was following the prayer of Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh). Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “He started recitation from the place where Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) had reached.” Râvî Vekî said: Such is the sunnah. He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) died during this illness. "
1294-) - “... from Mughir bin Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh); He said: (One day, during the journey to the Battle of Tabuk, at the time of the morning prayer), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was left behind (from the Companions). Then the two of us caught up with the caravan. At that time, Abdurranman bin Awf (radiyallahu anh) led the congregation one rak'ah (from the morning fard). When Abdurrahman (radiyallahu anh) felt that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was coming, he acted to retreat. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) signaled him to complete the prayer. (After the prayer), our master said to Abdurrahman: You did it, do this!). "
1295-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) fell ill (for a while) and a group of his Companions came to visit him. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) started the prayer where he was sitting. The visitors followed him standing. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) signaled to them to sit down. When he came out of the prayer, he said: He is to be followed so that he will be followed. So when he comes to ruku, you are also there (raise his head) when he raises his head (from ruku). And when he prays sitting, pray sitting too.)
1296-) ... From Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) fell from the horse (once) and his right side was bruised. We went to visit Him. Meanwhile, the time for prayer has come. He sat down and led us in prayer. We sat and prayed behind him. When his prayer is over, he is led so that he can be followed. So, when he says takbir, say takbir, when he bows, say: when he says: When he prostrates, prostrate, and when he prays sitting, all of you pray sitting. ) commanded. "
1297-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), he himself; The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Imam is made to be followed. In that case, when that iftitah says takbir, say takbir, and when he reaches ruku', say, ruku'. If he prays standing, pray standing, and if he prays sitting, pray sitting too. ) From Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) fell ill. We stood behind him (fard) prayer. He was praying while sitting. (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) looked at us and saw us standing. Then he pointed to us. We sat down and prayed by connecting to his prayer. When he saluted, he said: You will do what the Persians and Romans did. While their kings are sitting, they stand in the presence of their kings. Don't do that, follow your imams. If the imam prays standing, you also pray standing, and if the imam performs it sitting, you also perform it sitting.)
1299-) - “... From Abu Malik al-Ashcai Said bin Tariq (radiyallahu anhuma); He said to my father (Tariq): my father! Undoubtedly, you prayed behind the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman (radiyallahu anhum) (behind) and Ali (radiyallahu anh) here in Kufa for five years. Did these people recite the Kunut (prayer) in the morning prayer? said. Dad: son! He said Muhdestir (= it was invented later). "
1300-) - “... from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was prohibited from reciting Kunut in the morning prayer (or he forbade reading Qunut).
1301-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was reciting the Kunut (prayer) for a month in the morning prayer and cursing a group of Arab communities (in it). Then he left. "
1302-) - “... From Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: When he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) lifted his head from the second ruku of the morning prayer: Save Allah, Ayyash bin Abi Rabia and the weak believers in Mecca. my god! Put severe pressure on the Mudar tribe (= destroy, punish. ) Just like the famine years of Yusuf (Aleyhis Salam) by bringing years of famine on them. ) he prayed. "
1303-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered to kill these two black animals, the scorpion and the snake, in prayer. "
1304-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: While he was praying, a scorpion stung him. Then: curse the scorpion. He does not leave one who stands in prayer and no one else. Kill him in the harem (area) and the hill (the place outside the harem). ) commanded. " ..... According to what is reported from Rafi' (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) killed a scorpion while he was praying.”
1306-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade two prayers. He (forbidden) to pray until the sun rises after the morning prayer and until the sun sets after the afternoon prayer.
1307-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: After the prayer, there is no prayer until the sun sets, and after the morning prayer, there is no prayer until the sun rises. ) "
1308-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: Omar bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh) is the merdi (= reliable, truthful and very religious) many men—who I think is Omar (radiyallahu anh). They witnessed in my presence (= they informed me) that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: After the prayer, there is no prayer until the sun rises, and after the afternoon prayer there is no prayer until the sun sets. )
1309-) - “... from Amr bin Abese (radiyallahu anh); I (one day) came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said, "Is there a more beloved (acceptable) hour in the sight of Allah than another? I asked. He said: The middle of the night (it is the most acceptable hour.) Now (from that time) until the break of dawn, make it as vain as you wish. After the morning prayer, stop praying until the sun rises and as long as it is like a shield (after sunrise) and until it shines. Then make it as vain as you wish, until its shadow rises over it (= during the time until the sun reaches the middle of the sky). Then stop praying until the sun deviates from the middle of the sky. Because hell is ignited in the middle of the day. After that, do whatever you want until you perform the afternoon prayer. After the afternoon prayer, stop praying until the sun goes down. Because the sun sets between the two horns of the devil and rises in the middle of the two horns of the devil.) ".... From Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh): He said: Safwan bin al-Muattal (radiyallahu anh), Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) He said to him: O Messenger of Allah! I want to ask you something that you know and I do not know. The Prophet said: (What is it?). Safwan (radiy-Allâhu anh) asked: Is there a time when it is makruh to pray at night and during the day? Our Lord: (Yes. When you perform the morning prayer, stop praying until the sun rises. Because the sun rises with the two horns of the devil. After sunrise, pray until the sun stands upright like a spear over your head (within the elapsed time). Angels are present at the prayer and that prayer is acceptable. Stop praying when the sun is like a spear (upright) over your head. Because that hour is such an hour that Hell is ignited and the gates of Hell are opened in it. The sun is on your right head. (continues) until it deviates. When the sun turns away, the prayer performed until you perform the afternoon prayer is acceptable. And angels are present in it. After performing the afternoon prayer, stop praying until the sun goes down.) "... According to what is reported from Abu Abdillah as-Sunabihi (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The sun rises between the two horns of Satan.) Or he said: His two horns rise with the sun. When the sun rises, the devil leaves it. When the sun is in the middle of the sky, the devil is with the sun. When the sun turns to the west (or he said: (when it leaves) the devil leaves the sun. When the sun approaches the group, the devil is with him. When the sun goes down, the devil leaves. Therefore, do not pray during these three hours )
1312-) - “... According to what is reported from Cubayr bin Mut'im (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Sons of Abdi Manaf! Do not hinder anyone who circumambulates this bayt (Ka'ba) and prays at any time of the day or night. )
1313-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If you catch up with them, pray in your homes at the time you know. Then perform (again) with them, and do what you pray with them in vain. ) ..... According to what is narrated from Abu Zer (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: pray on time. If you catch up with the imam leading the congregation in prayer on time, pray with them. In this case, you will have performed your prayer (on time and in congregation). If this is not the case, (that is, if the imam is going to lead the congregation after its time, you perform your prayer on time. Then pray with them too). ) ..... According to what is reported from Ubade bin es-Samit (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There will be some orders that will delay the prayer by being busy with work. (Perform your prayer on time and) perform the prayer you pray with them in vain. )
1316-) - "... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported that: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said the following about salât-i havf: He starts the prayer with a group, and performs a prostration (rakat) together. they do. A group is between those who stand for prayer and the enemy. Then, those who have prayed one rak'ah together with the command will go and be found in the place of those who have not yet prayed (waiting) against the enemy. This time, the group that did not pray will come and perform a prostration (rak'ah) with their orders. Then the emir will leave having finished his prayer, and each group will perform one remaining rak'ah by themselves. If there is a more severe fear, everyone will pray by himself, either on foot or as a rider. ) said: He means rak'ah by prostration. " '..... Sahl bin Abi Hasme (radiyallahu anh) is reported to have said the following about salat-i havf: He prays towards the qibla. A group from the congregation also stands with him. The other group is against the enemy and faces their faces. He waits facing those who are praying. After the imam leads those who are standing in prayer one rak'ah, they bow down by themselves, after they do their prostration in the same place (after finishing their prayer), they go to the place of those who are waiting for the enemy, and the people there come. Now the prayer becomes two rak'ahs for the imam and one rak'ah for those who come. Then they perform one more rak'ah and make their prostration. Bin Bassâr said: I asked Yahya bin Saîd al-Kattan about this hadith. Yahya He told me from Shu'ba (reported) He from Abdurrahman bin al-Qasim (reported), He from his father (reported), He from Salih bin Hawwat (reported), He from Sahl bin Abi Hasma (reported), he was the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) He narrated the same hadith of Yahya bin Said (al-Ansari) from e sallam. bin Basshar said: Yahya bin Said al-Kattan said to me: Write the hadith of the branch next to the hadith of Yahya bin Said al-Ansari. I have not memorized Shu'ba's hadith. However, it is the same as the hadith of Yahya. "
1318-) - “... from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led his Companions with salat-i Hawf. After bowing down with the whole congregation, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the row behind him prostrated. Others were standing. When the Prophet stood up for the second rak'ah, those who waited performed two prostrations by themselves. Then the front line tensed up to stand in place of the second line, and the second line advanced, stopping at the front line. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) bowed with all of them. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the row behind him prostrated. When they lifted their heads from prostration, the others prostrated as well. The entire congregation bowed down with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). And each group performed the prostrations of one rak'ah by themselves. The enemy was in the direction of Qibla. "
1319-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Mas'ud (al-Ansari) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The sun and the moon do not eclipse because of the death of any person. When you see that he is being held, immediately get up and pray.) . . From Numan bin Bashir (radiyallahu anh); He said: While he was alive, the sun was eclipsed. The Prophet came to the masjid (from his house) worried and dragging his rida. He prayed continuously until the sun came up. Then he said: People think that the sun and the moon are eclipsed only because of the death of a great man. However, it is not so. Undoubtedly, the sun and the moon are kept neither for the death of anyone nor for the life of anyone. When Allah looks at something of His creatures, that thing awes Him. )
1321-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There was a solar eclipse while he was alive. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) went to the mosque, stood for prayer and said takbir. The community also sided with him. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) kept his recitation long. Then he said takbir and performed a long ruku'. Then raise your head; said. Then he stood and gave a long recitation. This recitation was slightly less than the first stanza. Then he said takbir and performed a long ruku'. This ruku' was a little shorter than the first ruku. Then he (raised his head and said; Then he did the double of this in the last rak'ah. Thus, he completed four ruku' and four prostrations. And before he left the prayer, the sun came up. He got up after the prayer and delivered a sermon to the people. After praising him, he said: The sun and the moon are two verses of Allah's verses (indicating the majesty of Allah).
1322-) - “... from Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led us the kusuf prayer (due to the eclipse). We did not hear His voice in prayer. ".... From Asma (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the daughter of Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh), she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led us the Kusuf prayer and stopped praying. He extended the standing position. Then he bowed. He also extended the ruku (head from ruku) and straightened himself up, extended the standing stance. Then he bowed. He extended the ruku (again). He lifted (head from the ruku). He prostrated. He extended the sajda (also). ' Then he lifted the (tie) and went to prostrate. He extended the prostration (your head from the prostration.) He lifted it. Then he prostrated (again) for a long time. Then (after completing the prayer) he said: He came so close to me that he If I had dared, I would have brought you one of its clusters, and the fire of Hell was so close to me that I began to say, 'O my Lord! I am among them!' . ) said: I think Ibn Abi Mulayka said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: I saw a woman (in Hell) scratching a cat. 'What's going on with it?' I asked. They said: This woman imprisoned this cat until she died. He neither gave him food nor let him eat of the vermin of the earth. )
1324-) - “... From Ishaq bin Abdillah bin Kinane (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: One of the amirs sent me to ask (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) about his prayer, (Ishak went and When I asked Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) said: What is the obstacle for that amir to ask me personally? Then he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) dressed modestly and insignificantly. He went out walking slowly and bowing in awe, in awe. He led two rak'ahs of prayer, as he did on Eid. And he did not deliver a sermon like this one (on Eid and Friday)."
1325-) - “... According to what is reported from Abbad bin Tamim's uncle (Abdullah bin Zayd bin Asim) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went up to Musall for istiska, turned to Qibla, and turned his rida. and he observed that he led two rak'ahs of prayer. .....Abbad bin Tamim's uncle was narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). According to what Sufyan narrated from al-Mas'udi, al-Mas'udi said to Abu Bakr bin Muhammad bin Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh): Did the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) lower the upper part of his rida or the right side of his rida? did he take it in his left pocket? I asked. Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh): No. He took his right side in his left pocket, he replied, he said. "From Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) he said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) one day went to istiska. He led us two rak'ahs of prayer without adhan and residence. Then he delivered a sermon to us. Raising his hands and turning his face to the Qibla, he prayed to Allah. He prayed. He turned his Rida, and took the left pocket on the right side and the right pocket on the left side. "
1328-) - “... According to what is reported from Şürahbîl bin es-Sımt (radiy-Allâhu anh), Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh) Ka'b bin Murre! Tell us hadiths from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). And beware of (wrong words), he said; Ka'b (radiyallahu anh) said: A man. He came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! Avoid Allahu ta'ala. (Say rain) he said. Thereupon, Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) raised his hands and prayed, “O Allah! Give us a good, abundant, general, urgent, not late, beneficial and harmless rain.” He said: Before the second Friday prayer, they were revived with a lot of rain. The narrator said: The Companions came to him (again) and complained about the excess of rain (this time) and said: O Messenger of Allah! They said the houses were destroyed. Thereupon, the Prophet said: (Let it rain) around us. not on us) he prayed. The narrator said: Upon this prayer, the cloud broke apart and retreated to the right and left of the city. "
1329-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: Arabi came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said, “O Messenger of Allah! “I come to you from a people whose shepherds do not go herd because of the drought, and none of the male camels can raise and lower their tails,” he said. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) immediately ascended the pulpit and praised Allah; He prayed, "O Allah! Give us a rain that saves lives, has a good end, general, abundant, soaking, urgent and without delay." Then he descended from the pulpit. Everyone around said: (With heavy rain) we have been revived. "
1330-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prayed for rain. He raised his hands in such a way that; I saw the white of his armpits. (Or this whiteness was seen.) Mu'temir said, I think it was in istiska. "
1331-) - “... From (Abdullah) Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) while I was praying for rain on the pulpit in Medina and all the gutters in Medina were running loudly before I descended from the pulpit, I looked at the poet's blessed face; . . . . I remember the word many times. This word belongs to Abu Talib. "
1332-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: I bear witness that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led the Eid prayer before the sermon. Then he delivered a sermon. Then, knowing that he could not make his voice heard (in the sermon), he went to a place close to them, preached and advised them, and ordered them to give alms. Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) grabbed it with his hands (for charity) and opened it like this. Now every woman started to throw her earrings, ring and whatever she had (on Bilal's skirt). "
1333-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led the Eid prayer on the day of Eid without adhan or residence. "
1334-) - “... from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: (Madinah governor) Marwan took out the pulpit (to Musalla) on the day of Eid and began to deliver the sermon (on the pulpit) before the Eid prayer. A man stood up and said: Marwan! You opposed the sunnah. You took out the pulpit (from the mosque to Musalla) on the day of Eid. However, the pulpit was not removed. You started the sermon before the prayer. However, the khutbah (prayer) was not read before, he said. Abu Saîd (i Hudri) (radiy-Allâhu anh): The man fulfilled his duty, (because) I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) that if he sees a sin and is able to change it with his hand, let him change it with his hand. If he can't afford it, change it with his language. If he can't change it with his tongue, let him change it with his heart. Changing it with the heart is the weakest of Iman (fruit). )
1335-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), then Abu Bakr and after him Umar (radiyallahu anhuma) used to lead the Eid prayer before the sermon. "
1336-) ... From Sa'd al-karaz (radiyallahu anh), the muezzin of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: In rak'ah, he would say takbir five times before the qira'ah. "
1337-) ... From the grandfather of Amr bin Shuayb (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhum): He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: 'atta) said five (times) takbirs. "
1338-) - “... From Kathir's grandfather (Amr bin Avf al-Muzeni) (radiyallahu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: He recited the takbir five (times) in the rak'ah (before the king). "
1339-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) recited seven takbirs (in the first rak'ah) and five (times) in the last rak'ah, in addition to the two takbirs of ruku', during the Fitr and Sacrifice Eid prayers. "
1340-) - “... From Numan bin Bashir (radiyallahu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in both Eid prayers (after Fatiha): . . . . . He recited his surahs. "
1341-) - "... According to what is reported from Ubeydullah bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhu): (radiyallahu anhu) went out on an Eid day (prayer) and what the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) did on such days (after Fatiha) He sent Abu Vakid al-Leysi (radiyallahu anh) to ask him what he read and Abu Vakid said: (Our Lord), . . . . and; . . . . . He replied that he would (read) their surahs.
1342-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), in both Eid prayers (after Fatiha); . . . . . and. . . . . He recited his surahs. "
1344-) - “... From Abu Kahil (al-Ahmesi) (radiyallahu anh); He said: I saw the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) reciting a sermon on a beautiful camel, holding his camel’s bridle by an Abyssinian. "
1345-) - “... According to what is reported from Nubayt (radiy-Allâhu anh), he went on a pilgrimage and said: I saw the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) delivering a sermon on his camel. "
1346-) - “... from Muezzin Sa'd (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to say takbir from time to time during the sermon. He used to say a lot of takbir in his two eid sermons. "
1347-) - “... From Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to go out on the day of Eid (Musallaya) to the congregation, lead the two-rak'ah Eid prayer and salute the congregation, then stand and turn his face towards the congregation. The congregation would be sitting in a sitting position. It was women who gave the most alms. They gave their earrings, rings and whatever they had. "
1348-) - “... from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) went out and delivered a standing sermon on the day of Fitr or Eid-al-Adha. Then after sitting for a while (again) he stood up (he delivered the second sermon.)
1349-) - “... From Abdullah bin es-Saib (radiyallahu anh): He said: I was present at the Eid prayer together with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). After he led us the Eid prayer: we finished. Anyone who wants to sit for the khutbah (listening to the khutbah) should sit down. If you want to go, go. ) commanded. "
1350-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went out (to Musa) and led the congregation for the Eid prayer. He did not pray before and after the Eid prayer. "
1351-) - “... From Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) never prayed before or after the Eid prayer on any Eid day. "
1352-) - “... from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would never pray before the Eid prayer. When he returned home after the Eid prayer, he would pray two rak'ahs. '
1353-) - “... from Sa'd (al-Karaz) (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to walk to the Eid prayer (Musalla) and return walking. " ". . From Umar (radiyallahu anhuma): He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to walk to the Eid prayer (Musalla) and return walking. " " From Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh); He said: It is sunnah to go to the prayer on foot. "
1356-) ... From Abu Kafi (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to walk to the Eid prayer. "
1357-) - “... from Sa'd (al-Karaz) (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to go after the house of Saîd bin Ebi'l-As (radiy-Allâhu anh) when he went out with Mûsâlla for both Eid prayers. Turning from the road, from the Bani Zurayk road, he took al-Belata by the houses of Ammar bin Yasir (radiy-Allâhu anh) and Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh).
1358-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he used to go to the Eid prayer by one way and return by another way, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to do this. "
1359-) - “... from Abu Rafi (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to go to the Eid prayer on foot and would turn back from the way he came from. "
1360-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) went to the Eid prayer, he would return from the way he had come. "
1361-) - “... According to what is reported from Amir (radiyallahu anh), Iyâz al-Ashari (radiyallahu anh) al-Anbar, why do I not see that you are imitating as it was done with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)? he said. "
1362-) - “... From Kays bin Sari (radiyallahu anh): He said: What happened when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was alive, I have certainly seen it all. I just didn't see anything. (It is also this:) He was imitated on the day of Fitr (festival). "...
1364-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to go to Musalla in the morning on the day of Eid, and the anaza (short spear) would be taken in front of him. When he arrived at Musalla, the anaza (short spear) would stand before him. He would stand for the Eid prayer towards the Anaza (short spear). The reason for doing so is this. Musalla was an empty square. There was nothing to suture on it. "
1365-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) when he performs an Eid day (prayer) or another prayer (in an open place) spear) was erected. He used to pray towards the war. The community was also behind him. Nafi said that = That is why the amirs adopted the war. "
1366-) - “... It was narrated from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took a battle as a sutrah and led the Eid prayer in Musalla. "
1367-) - “... from Umm Atiyya (radiyallahu anha); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered us to take women out (to Eid prayer) on the days of Fitr (Eid al-Fitr) and Eid al-Adha. The narrator said that Umm Atiyya (radiyallahu anha) said: We said: What will happen to a woman who does not have a jilbab (cover)? we asked. He said: Let the woman (religion) dress her brother in her own jilbab. )
1368-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Atiyya (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Take out (adult) women and veiled women (from the house). Let them be present at the feast (prayer) and at the invitation of the Muslims. Women who are in menstruation (monthly menstruation) should stay away from the Mûsalla of the congregation (where they perform Eid prayers). )
1369-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to take his daughters and wives (to Eid prayer) on both Eids. "
1370-) - “... According to what is reported from Iyas bin Ebî Ramla al-Shamî (radiy-Allâhu anh), the man said (in an assembly where I was present) to Zayd bin Erkam (radiy-Allâhu anh): Did you spend Eid and Friday with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)? she asked. Zayd (radiyallahu anh) replied: Man: What would our master do (that day)? she asked. Zayd (radiyallahu anh) said: He led the Eid prayer. Then he gave permission for the Friday prayer and said: Whoever wants to pray should do it. )
1371-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "Two Eids have been gathered on this day of yours. Now, whoever wishes, his Eid prayer is also sufficient in place of the Friday prayer. We, insha'Allah, will perform the Friday prayer as well. )
1372-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: " . . While the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was alive, two feasts were gathered (in one day). Those who want to come should come. Those who want not to come should not come. )
1375-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade (believers) to carry weapons on Eids in Islamic countries unless they are against the enemy. "
1376-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to perform ablution on the day of the Feast of Fitr and the day of Eid-al-Adha. "
1377-) - “... Al-Faqih bin Sa'd – who was honored as a Companion – (radiyallahu anh) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to make ablution on the day of Eid al-Fitr, the day of Eid-al-Adha and the day of Arafa. (The narrator said that) al-Fâkih used to order his household to make ablution these days. "
1379-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to perform the prayer in pairs (rak'ah) at night. "
1380-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (The night prayer is two rak'ahs.)
1381-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked about his prayer (to greet him from the missed rakats). He said: ) pray in pairs (rak'ah). When he is afraid of the dawn, he performs one rak'ah of witr (or one rak'ah, he sings that night prayer).
1382-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray two rak'ats at night. "
1384-) - “... From Ummu Hani' bint Abi Talib (radiyallahu anha): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed eight rak'ats for the mid-morning nafila on the day of conquest (Mecca). He saluted (after) both rak'ahs. "
1385-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There is salutation in both rak'ahs. ) ..... According to what is narrated from Al-Muttalib, that is, Ibn Abi Vedaa (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: His prayer is two rak'ahs in pairs. You recite tashahhud in both rak'ahs. You explain your poverty by begging, you express your poverty with humiliation. When you pray (after the prayer), you raise your hands and say, "O Allah, forgive me." Whoever does not do this, his prayer (in terms of reward and virtue) is incomplete. )
1387-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, he said: He fasts in Ramadan with faith and only seeking the pleasure of Allah, and spends his night with tarawih (or other worship) If he does, his past sin is forgiven. ) ..... From Abu Dharr(-i Gıfari) (radiyallahu anh): He said: We fasted a month of Ramadan together with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). He did not perform tarawih (or) revive the night for us in any of his nights (from the month of Ramadan) until seven nights were left. When it was the seventh night (from the end of the month to the beginning), he led us to prayer until about a third of the night had passed. (Or he had that part of the night revived.) Then it was the sixth night (from the end) following that night. (But) he did not perform tarawih prayer on it. Finally it was the fifth night (from the end). He led Taraweeh for us until about midnight passed (from him). Me: Messenger of Allah! “We hope you will order us to revive the remaining half of our night,” I said. They said: The person who performs tarawih prayer together with the imam until he returns from the prayer is equivalent to (completely) reviving one night. Finally, it was the third night following (from the end). He gathered his (respected) wives and relatives. The congregation also gathered. Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh) said that our master extended the tarawih prayer that he led us that night so much that we were afraid that we would miss the sahur meal. It was said: What is Falah? Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh) replied: Felah is to eat the suhoor meal. Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh) said: After that night, our master did not lead us from the tarawih prayer in the remaining two nights of Ramadan. "..... From An-Nadr bin Shayban (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I met Abdurrahman (bin Awf's son, Abu Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ)] and said: 'Remember a hadith you heard from your father about the bear. Abu Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh): Well, according to what my father told me, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) told me about the month of Ramadan and said: It is such a month that Allâhu ta’âlâ made fasting obligatory on you. Now, whoever keeps his fast by believing and only asking for Allah's approval and revives his nights with tarawih (or other worship) will be cleansed of his sins like the day his mother gave birth to him. )
1390-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When someone falls asleep, Satan ties a three-knotted rope around his neck at night. If that person wakes up and remembers Allah, a knot is untied. When he gets up and performs ablution, one (more) knot is untied. When the prayer stops, all the knots are untied. Now, that person (who gets up for the night prayer) wakes up in the morning with the knot untied, light, pleasant in the heart and good. If he does not do (remembering Allah, performing ablution and praying), he will wake up in the morning in a state of lethargy, with a bad heart and without any good. )
1391-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was told about this state of a man who slept until morning and did not wake up to pray. The Prophet said: (The devil has put a hole in this man's ears.) "
1392-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He said: Abdullah!) Don't be like a man or something. That night he would get up for prayer. Then he stopped getting up for night prayers. )
1393-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: : O my son! Don't sleep too much at night. Because sleeping too much at night leaves a man poor on the Day of Judgment. ) "
1394-) - “... According to what was reported by Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he prays a lot at night, his face will be beautiful (light) during the day. )
1395-) - “... From Abdullah bin Salam (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: When (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) came to Madinah (in Hijrah), the people quickly went to him and it was said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came. So I came in public to look at Him. When I looked carefully at the face of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), I knew that his face was not a liar (= that's how I recognized him.) His first words were: people! Spread the greeting, eat, pray at night while the people are asleep. (If you do so) you will enter Paradise with greetings. )
1396-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said (-i Hudri) and Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When a man wakes up, wakes up his wife and the two of them pray two rak'ahs, they are written as 'men and women who remember Allah a lot. ) "
1397-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "May Allah have mercy on the man who gets up (from sleep) and prays and wakes his wife up to pray. May Allah have mercy on the woman who gets up at night (from sleep) and prays and wakes her husband up to pray. )
1398-) - “... From Abdurrahman bin es-Sâib (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: bin Abi Waqqas (radiyallahu anh) came to us (as a guest) while his eyes were closed. I (came to him) greeted him. 'Who are you? she asked. I told him (who I am). On top of that: Hello my brother's son! I heard that he recites the Qur'an with a beautiful voice. He said, I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saying: This (sublime) Qur'an has been sent down in a powerful way. Now cry when you read it. If you don't cry, try to cry. Try to beautify your voice while reading it. Whoever does not try to recite the Qur'an in a beautiful voice is not one of us. )
1399-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), she said: ) I was late. Then I went. He asked me: (Where were you?). Me: I was listening to a man from your Companions reciting the Qur'an. I said, I have never heard from anyone the same as his recitation and voice. Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said that our Master got up to listen to that Companion. I got up with him too. After (going and listening to him), the Prophet turned to me and said: Salim mawla is Ebi Huzeyfe. Praise be to Allah, He has made the like of it in my ummah. ) ..... According to what was narrated from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When you hear his voice while reciting, the man you think is afraid of Allah, no doubt recites the Qur'an in the most beautiful voice. is the reader. )
1401-) - “... According to what is reported from Fadala bin Ubayd (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Just as the master listens to the voice of a beautiful concubine, Allahu ta'ala listens better to the voice of a man who recites the Qur'an with a beautiful voice. )
1402-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered the mosque and heard a man reciting the Qur'an. He then asked: Who is (the reader)?). It was said that he is Abdullah bin Kays (radiyallahu anh). Our Prophet: This man was given a tune from the tunes of David (Aleyhis Salam). ) commanded. "
1403-) - “... From Barâ bin Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Embellish the (reading) of the Qur'an by making it beautiful. ) "
1404-) - “... According to what is reported from Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "For a person who falls asleep without making his (night) group or part of it and recites it between the morning prayer and the noon prayer (at that time), it is written as if he had recited it at night. ) " " . . According to what is narrated from Ebud-Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "For a person who gets up and goes to bed with the intention of praying and falls asleep until the morning (time of prayer), the prayer (reward) he intends is written, and his sleep is a gift (given) to him by his Lord." will be donated. ) "
1406-) - “... From Evs bin Huzeyfe (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: We came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in the delegation of Sakîf (in Madinah). He hosted Hey'et al-Ahlaf to Muğîre bin Şu'be (radiy-Allâhu anh). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) placed Bani Malik in a tent of his own. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to come to us every night after the night prayer and talk to us by standing on his feet. because he was tired) he would take turns resting his feet. (= He put the weight of his body on one foot, and after a while he would put it on the other foot. ) Most of his speech was about the things that happened to him with his tribe, Quraysh, and he used to say: Our state before the migration and our state after the migration are not the same. We were weak before the hijra, we were exposed to insults. After we went to Medina, war (destined for both sides) was taking place between us and them (Meccan polytheists). We were victorious over them, they were vanquishing us. ) (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to us one night after his customary time. Me: O Messenger of Allah! "You're late to come to us tonight," I said. HE IS ; My hizb (remembering that I hadn't read it on time) immediately got the job done. I didn't like leaving without completing it either,) he said. (radiyallahu anh) said: I asked the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): How do you divide the Qur'an into factions? I asked. They said: Three, five, seven, nine, eleven, and thirteen (we are making the surah a hizib), and al-Mufassai is making a hizib.
1407-) - “... From Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: I have memorized the Qur'an. And I read it all in one night. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I am afraid that you will get tired of reading the whole Qur'an every night, after a long time has passed. For this, you download a hatim once a month. ) I ; O Messenger of Allah! I said, let me use my strength and my youth. He said: In that case, download a hatim once in ten days. ) Me (again): I said: Release me so that I can enjoy my strength and youth. He said: So in seven days hatmet. ) I said (again): Let me use my strength and my youth. He refused (from this). " ". . . From Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: Whoever reads the entire Qur'an in less than night time has not understood it. )
1409-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: I do not know that the Prophet of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) recited the entire Qur'an in one night until the morning. "
1410-) - “... Umm Hani' bint Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anha) said: While I was on the roof of my house, I heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) chanting at night (in his prayer). "
1411-) - “... From Abu Zer(r-i Gıfârî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) repeated a verse in the prayer (one night) until morning. The verse is this: (If you tame them, they are your servants. And if you forgive them, you are surely a saint and a judge. )
1412-) ... From Huzeyfe (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed his nafilah at night. When a verse of mercy is mentioned in his recitation (in prayer), he would ask for mercy, when a verse of torment was mentioned, he would seek refuge (in Allah from punishment) and glorify when a verse mentioning that Allahu ta'ala is free from deficiencies is mentioned. "
1413-) - “... Abu Layla (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: While the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was performing voluntary prayers at night, I prayed next to him. He recited a verse of torment in his recitation. At the end of the verse, he said: "I seek refuge in Allah from the fire of Hell. Woe to those who live in Hell." "
1414-) - “... from Qatade (radiyallahu anh); He said: I asked Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh) about the recitation of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He said: (reading the suspenseful letters) he used to raise his voice. "
1415-) - “... from Nufey' bin al-Haris (radiyallahu anh); He said: I went to Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) and asked: Did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recite the Qur'an openly or secretly (in the night prayer)? I asked. He said: openly, sometimes secretly. Me: Akbar. I said, "Praise be to Allahu ta'ala, who has given breadth to this religion." "
1419-) - “... Abu Salama bin Abdirrahman (bin Awf) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) reported that he said: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) got up for the night prayer, what would he start the prayer with? ? I asked. He said: (When he started the prayer) he recited the following prayer: Lord of Gabriel, Mikail and Israfil! Creator of the heavens and the earth, the scholar of all things hidden and obvious! You judge between your servants regarding the religion in which they differ. Guide me with your will to the disputed right. Surely, you guide to the straight path. ) Abdirrahman bin Omar said: Memorize the word Gabriel as a hemzeli. Because this is how it was narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam).
1420-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ). He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray eleven rak'ats between the time when he was empty of the night prayer and the time when the dawn would break. He would greet at the end of both rak'ahs of it. And he used to make one rak'ah at the end of it. He used to prolong the prostrations in all rak'ahs so long that one of you could recite fifty verses before he even lifted his head from the prostration. When the muezzin finished the adhan of the morning prayer, he would get up and pray two rak'ahs lightly. "
1421-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to pray thirteen rak'ahs at night. "
1422-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to pray nine rak'ats at night. "
1423-) - “... From Amir al-Sha'bî (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I asked Abdullah bin Abbas and Abdullah bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhum) about the night prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). They said: He used to pray thirteen rak'ahs. He would pray eight rak'ahs of this. Then he would pray three rak'ahs as witr and two rak'ahs after fajr. "
1424-) - “... From Zayd bin Khalid al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh): I said: I will carefully follow the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) tonight. And I have made a pillow for myself an edge of the threshold or tent of His house. At night, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) got up. He performed two rak'ahs, which he kept lightly. Then he performed two rak'ahs, which he held long and kept very long. Then he performed two rak'ahs. These were a little shorter than the previous rak'ahs. Then he offered two more rak'ahs. These were also a little shorter than the previous rak'ahs. Then he offered two rak'ahs. These were also slightly shorter than the two rak'ahs before them. Then he performed two more rak'ahs. Then he performed one rak'ah as one. All of them are thirteen rak'ahs.
1425-) - “... (Abdullah) Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) slept one night in the room of Meymune (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), one of the most respected wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), who was his aunt. He said: I lay in the direction of the width of the pillow. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and his wife lay down in the direction of the pillow's length. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) slept. At midnight or just before or a little later, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) woke up and recited the ten verses at the end of Surah Al-i Imran after he lost sleep by rubbing his face with his hand. Then he went to a hanging water bottle, took a good ablution from it and started to pray. Abdullah bin Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma) said: I got up and did the same as what he did. Then I went and stood on his (left) side to pray. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) put his right hand on my head and grabbed my right ear and began to bend it. He prayed two rak'ahs, then two rak'ahs, then two rak'ahs, then two rak'ahs, then two rak'ahs, then two rak'ahs, then witr as one rak'ah. Then he lay until the muezzin came to Him. (When the muezzin came), he performed two light rak'ahs and went to the morning prayer. "
1426-) - “... from Amr bin Abese (radiyallahu anh); He said: I came to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and said: O Messenger of Allah! Who became a Muslim with you? I asked. He said; free and a slave. ) Me: Is there any other hour more acceptable to Allah than one? I asked. He said: (Yes. The most acceptable time is the last half of the night.) "
1427-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to sleep before the night and revive its end with worship. ".....According to what was narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Two-thirds of it has passed) and one-third of it remains, our Lord, Blessed and Exalted, is in an unknown state to us every night ( descending to the first sky) until dawn says: He wants something from me so that I can give it to him? Who is praying for me so that I can answer his prayer? Who asks me for forgiveness so that I can forgive him?)
1429-) - “... According to what is reported from Rifaa al-Juheni (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Ta’âlâ does not make a request until half or two-thirds of the night has passed. From the end of this period until the dawn, he says: My servants should not make any requests from anyone other than me. Whoever prays to me, I will answer him. Whoever wants something from me, I will give it to him. Whoever asks me for the forgiveness of his sin, I will forgive him.)
1430-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Mas'ud (Ukbe bin Amr al-Ansari al-Badri) (radiyallahu anh). Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever recites the last two verses of his term in one night, these verses are enough for him. I came across him while circumambulating (the Kaaba) and he told me this hadith. "
1431-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Mas'ud (Uqba bin Amr al-Ansari al-Badri) (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he reads the verse, those verses are enough for him. )
1432-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “When he gets sleepy (in prayer), let him sleep (interrupt the prayer) until his sleepiness goes away. Because when he prays even though he is sleepy, he does not know what he is saying. It is hoped that he will curse himself while asking for forgiveness. )
1433-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered the mosque (one day) and saw a rope stretched between two pillars and asked: What is the rope? (Those who were there) said: This rope belongs to Zeynep (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), (one of our Master's venerable wives). He prays here. When he gets tired of standing, he clings to this rope. Thereupon, our Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: untie, untie the rope. As long as one of you is light and strong, let him pray. Sit down when you're tired. ) commanded. "
1434-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When he got up for the night prayer, the Qur’an (which he recited because he fell asleep) was incomprehensible from his language and he said what he said. If he does not know, let him sleep (interrupting the prayer). )
1435-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Allahu ta'ala will build a house in Paradise for a person who performs twenty rak'ahs (nafilah) between the prayers and the night prayers. )
1436-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "For a person who performs six rak'ahs (nafilah) after his prayer and does not say anything bad in between, this prayer is ten. equated to two years of worship. )
1437-) - “... from Asim bin Amr (radiyallahu anh); He said: A soldier from his people came (to Madina) to go to the caliph Omar (radiyallahu anh). When they came to him, Umar (radiyallahu anh) asked them: We are Iraqi people, they said. Omar (radiyallahu anh): Did you come with the permission of your commander? she asked. They said: Yes. The narrator said: They asked him about the ruling of praying in his own house. Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about this. He said: As for him to perform the (nafilah) prayer in his own house; this is a light. Light up your homes now. ) ... Umayr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the son of Umar bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh) (described it) from Umar bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh). (thus) has. ..... According to what is narrated from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he performs the obligatory prayer (in a mosque), he should give a share of his prayer to his house. Because Allahu ta'ala gives goodness to his house from the prayer he will perform at home. )
1440-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Do not make your houses graves.)
1441-) - “... From Abdullah bin Sa'd (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: To the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); Is the prayer in my house or the prayer in the mosque better? I asked. He said: Don't you look? How close is it to the mosque? Surely, praying in my house is more beloved to me than praying in the mosque. Fard prayer is an exception to this. )
1443-) - “...From Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh):. He said: I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). He said: If he prays twelve rak'ahs of morning prayer, Allah will have a golden mansion built for him in Paradise. ) . I was Muâza al-Adevivye (radiy-Allâhu anh). He said to Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): Would the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) perform the morning prayer? I asked. He said: (he would do) as four rak'ahs and he would increase it as much as Allah wished. ..... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he continues the double (two rak'ahs) of the morning prayer, his sins will be forgiven, even if they are as much as the foam of the sea.)
1446-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to teach us istikhara (the quality and prayer) as if he were teaching us a surah from the Qur'an: When someone wants to do something, he should pray two rak'ahs, not obligatory (with the intention of istikhara). After the prayer, he should pray like this: Since you know the best about me, I ask you to be guided to the best one, and I ask you to help me from your strength and ask you to be able to do better. I ask for your great bounty (and grace). Because You are omnipotent. I am not capable of anything. You know (everything). I don't know (something). You are all-knowing of all that is hidden (to everyone). my god! If this job I want (indicating what he wants to do here) is good for my religion, my life and the hereafter (or if it is good for my present and future affairs) in your knowledge, make it predestined for me. (Raise my strength for this.) Make this right for me. And bless me with this work. And if there is evil in your knowledge (he says here the same as what you said for the first time), turn this deed from me, and turn me (and my heart) away from this work, and destined me for good wherever it is! Then make my soul content with this goodness. )
1447-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abi Evfâ al-Aslemî (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) came to us and said: If anyone has a need in the sight of Allah or in the presence of someone from Allah's creation; perform ablution and pray two rak'ahs. Then let him pray: 'There is no god but Allah, the Caring and the Karim. I glorify and praise Allahu ta'ala, the Lord of the great throne. Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the worlds. Undoubtedly, I ask You for the reasons that cause your mercy, the qualities that require your forgiveness, the spoils of every good deed, and to be safe from every sin. I ask You to forgive all my sins, relieve all my sorrows and fulfill all my needs in accordance with your consent! Then ask Allah for your wishes regarding the world and the hereafter. Because no doubt that wish is appreciated. )
1448-) - “... From Osman bin Hunayf (radiyallahu anh); He said: A man who is blind or with little vision came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Pray to Allah for me, and he will grant me well-being. (Heal my eyes) he wished. Our Lord: You leave the reward of this disease for yourself in the hereafter. This is more beneficial. And if you wish, I will pray. ) commanded. : Pray, he said. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered the man to perform ablution well, perform two rak’ahs of prayer, and pray with the following prayer: Surely, I ask You and I turn to You with the Prophet of mercy, Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam).
1449-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Rafi' (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): My uncle! To you. Shall I give you a gift? Am I not helpful to you? Shouldn't I do my bit against you? Abbas (radiyallahu anh): Here you go, O Messenger of Allah! said. Our Lord said: (Perform four rak'ahs (nafilah) prayers. In each rak'ah, recite the Fatiha and a surah. When the recital is finished, say "Welhamdulillahi wa la ilaha illallahu vallahu akbar" fifteen times before performing ruku'. Then ruku' (after the rosary of ruku) Say it once. Then raise your head (from ruku). Say this ten times when you stand up. Then prostrate. After the rosary in prostration, say this ten times. Then raise your head (from the rosary) ten times (after praising this sitting). Then prostrate. Recite it ten times after (again) the tasbih on it. Then raise your head and say it ten times (in your sitting position) before standing up. Here it is seventy-five times in each rak'ah. This dhikr is three hundred times in four rak'ahs. If your sins were like piles of sand, Allah would forgive them for you.) Abbas (radiyallahu anh). What if no one has the strength to say it in one day? she asked. The Prophet said: (Say this on a Friday (in a week). If you cannot afford to do it (in a week), say it in a month). And finally he said: (Say this in a year). "
1450-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to Abbas bin Abdi'l-Muttalib (radiy-Allâhu anh): Abbas! O Uncle! Shall I not give you ten traits (the expiation of ten kinds of sins)? Shall I offer you a treat? Shall I let you know? When you commit it (the expiation), Allah Almighty forgives your sin for you. The past, the hereafter, the old, the new, the mistake, the intentional, the small, the big, the secret, the open. (These sins) are ten characteristics (types). (The expiation of these ten traits) is one who prays four rak'ats. You recite Fatiha and a surah in each rak'ah. When you finish the reading in the first rak'ah, while you are still standing, fifteen times; . . . . . . . . , you read the dhikr. Then you bow. You say (this) ten times while you are in the state of ruku'. Then you raise your head from ruku. You say that ten times. Then you bend down for prostration. Say this ten times while in prostration. Then you raise your head from the prostration. You say that ten times. Then you prostrate, say it ten times. Then you raise your head from prostration and say it ten times. The sum of these is seventy-five times in each rak'ah. You do (this) in four rak'ahs. If you can afford to perform this prayer once a day, do it. Do it once every Friday (every week) if you can't afford it. If you can't do that, do it once a month. If you can't do that, do it once in your life.)
1451-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "When it is the fifteenth night of the month, get up to worship at night. And fast the day (the fifteenth day) of that night. Because that night, when the sun went down, Allahu ta'ala (whose nature is unknown to us) descended to the sky closest to the world (from that moment) until it was fajr: Is there anyone who asks forgiveness from me? let me forgive him. Does anyone want sustenance from me? I will provide for him (with a calamity) is there anyone who is obsessed? Let me give him good health (I will save him from trouble.) Is there anyone like this? is there anything like this? commands. )
1452-) ... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) she said: I realized that (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had left my room one night (the fifteenth night of Sha’ban). I immediately went to look for him. I saw that it is in Bakıyy. He lifted his head to the sky. Me: Aisha! Were you afraid that Allah and His Messenger would persecute you?) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: I do not have this (fear and bad suspicion). “But I thought you went to some of your wives,” he said. Thereupon, he said: Allahu ta'ala descends to the heavens, which is closest to the world, on the fifteenth night of the month of Sha'ban (in a way that is unknown to us). And He forgives sins (or sinners) more than the number of hairs of the sheep of the Kelb tribe. )
1453-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh). Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Allâhu ta’âlâ looks at the fifteenth night of Sha’ban (with mercy on His servants) and forgives everyone. He does not forgive only those who associate partners with Him or an observer. ) "...
1455-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ebî Evfâ (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: On the day when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was given the good news of the beheading of Abu Jahl, he prayed two rak'ahs (thank you). "
1456-) - “... From Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was given the good news that a great need was seen. Thereupon, he immediately prostrated himself. "
1457-) - “... According to what is reported from Ka'b bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): When ta'ala accepted his repentance, he prostrated himself (thankfully). "
1458-) - “... Abu Bakrata (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) When something important came to him that made him happy or with which he was happy, he would prostrate himself in gratitude to Allah Almighty. "
1459-) - “... from Ali bin Ebl Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: When I heard a hadith from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), Allah used to make me benefit from that hadith as much as he wanted. And when someone else told me a hadith from him, I used to offer an oath to the narrator. I would attest to him when he took the oath. Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) also narrated a hadith to me. Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) spoke the truth. He said: Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There is no man who commits a sin; he makes wudu after committing a sin, performs ablution well, then prays two rak'ats (Mis'ar said: Then he prays) and forgives his sin. He asks Allah, but Allah will not forgive him. ) commanded. "
1460-) - “... According to what is reported from Asim bin Sufyan as-Sakafi (radiy-Allâhu anh): Although they wanted to join the war, they missed the war and kept watch (or they were busy with asceticism and obedience to obtain the virtue of the war.) Then They returned to Muawiya (radiyallahu anh). In the meantime, Abu Ayyub and Ukbe bin Amir (al-Juheni) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) were with Muâviye (radiy-Allâhu anh). Asim (radiyallahu anh): Ebâ Ayyub! We missed the war this year. According to what we have been informed, he said that the sins of those who pray in four mosques will be forgiven. Abu Ayyub (radiyallahu anh): My brother's son! Shall I show you something easier than that? Surely, I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: If he performs ablution as ordered and performs (fard) prayers as ordered, his past sinful deeds will be forgiven. ) Is it like this, O Uqba? he replied. Ukba (radiyallahu anh) also confirmed Abu Ayyub (radiyallahu anh) by saying: '
1461-) - “... According to what is reported from Osman bin Affan (radiyallahu anh), he said the following. : I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). He said: If there is a flowing river near the house of one of you and the owner of the house bathes in that water five times a day, what will be left of his body? Thereupon, the Prophet said: Prayer removes sins as water removes dirt. ) commanded. "Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: A man touched a woman inappropriately, that is, he did something deficient in fornication, I will no longer know what he did. But I know that it was not adultery. He came to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and told what had happened to him, then Allah sent down the verse of Subhanahu wa Ta'ala, and that man said: O Messenger of Allah! Bukhari, Tirmidhi and Nasai reported the hadith of (radiyallahu anh) from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh).
1464-) - “... From Abdullah Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: Our Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was ordered to perform fifty prayers on the night of Mi'raj. Then he applied to your Lord to pray five prayers. "
1465-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh): I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He said, he said: ta'ala has made five prayers obligatory for His servants. Whoever does not deprive the slightest of their rights by taking their rights lightly, Allahu ta'ala will certainly fulfill His promise that He will be included in Paradise on the Day of Judgment (without torment). There is no promise in the sight of Allah for a person who neglects their rights and leaves something out of them. If he wishes, he can abhor him, if he wishes, he will forgive him.)
1466-) - “... From Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: One day, while we were sitting in the mosque, a man came riding on his camel. After making his camel kneel on one side of the mosque and tie his feet, he asked those sitting in the mosque: Which of you is Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)? said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was leaning among those sitting in the mosque. Anas (radiyallahu anh) said: The people there said: This is the white man who is leaning on Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The man said to him: O son of Abdulmuttalib! (he) addressed. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) replied, “I am listening to you.” The man said to him: O Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)! I want to ask you (something) and I will be severe in asking questions. “Don't be mad at me,” he said. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (Ask whatever you want to ask). The man said to Him: I am asking you by the Lord of your Lord and the Lord of those before you. Did Allah send you as a Prophet to all people? she asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (O Allah! (You are a witness) Yes). Man: I'm asking you for God's sake. Did Allah command you to pray five prayers every day and night? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (O Allah! Yes). Man: Well, for God's sake, I'm asking you. Has Allah ordered you to fast this month (= Ramadan) of the year? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (O Allah! Yes). Man: Well, I'm asking you in the name of Allah. Has Allah ordered you to take this charity from our rich and distribute it to our poor? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (O Allah! Yes.). After that, the man said: I believed in the religion you brought and I am the ambassador of my people behind me. “I am Dimâm bin Salabe, the brother of Bani Sa'd bin Bekr,” he said. "
1467-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Qatada bin Rib' (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He (Azza wa Jalla) said: I have enjoined five prayers on your ummah and promised myself that I will include those who continue in their time and hold fast to Paradise. There is no promise with me for those who do not continue to fulfill them on time. ) "
1468-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A prayer performed in this mosque of mine (in Mecca) Except for Masjid Haram, it is better (in terms of reward) than a thousand prayers performed in other mosques.)
1470-) - “... From Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma). It was narrated that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "One prayer in this mosque (in Madinah) is better (in terms of reward) than a thousand prayers performed in other mosques, except Masjid Haram (in Makkah).
1471-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) announced that he said: One prayer in this mosque (in Madinah) is better (in terms of reward) than a thousand prayers performed in other mosques, with the exception of Masjid Haram (in Makkah). One prayer performed in Masjid Haram (in Mecca) is better (in terms of reward) than one hundred thousand prayers offered in other mosques. )
1472-) - “... From Maymuna (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the son of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He said: (one day): O Messenger of Allah! I said, "Give us a fatwa about Beytül-Makdis (Masjid al-Aqsa)". He said: It is the place of Judgment Day. Get there and pray inside. Because one prayer in it is like a thousand prayers in another place. ) Me: can you let me know what to do if I can't afford to travel all the way there? I asked. He said: You give him olive oil as a gift, it is used for lighting. Whoever does that, it's like they got there.)"
1473-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When he finished his building, he made three wishes from Allahu ta'ala:
1476-) - “... According to what is narrated from Usayd bin Zuhayr al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh), one of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “A prayer performed in his mosque is like an Umrah (virtuous).”
1480-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh). He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to deliver a sermon based on a palm stump. When the pulpit is united, he moves towards the pulpit. . . . . .
1484-) - “... From Al-Mughira (bin Shu'be) (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood up during the night prayer so much that both of his feet (or two of his calves) swelled. He (from Aisha (radiyallahu anha)) said: Messenger of Allah! God has forgiven your past and future sins. It was said, "Why do you put up with such difficulties in worship?" The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) replied (with night worship against this divine forgiveness): Should I not be a servant? "
1485-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray (at night) until his feet (or calves) swelled. He said to himself: Surely, Allah has forgiven your past and future sins. He was asked, "Why do you pray so many supererogatory prayers when this is the case?" He replied, "Should I not be a grateful servant?" "
1486-) - “... from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said to (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Which prayer is best? it was asked; himself: (the one who is long) said. "
1487-) - “... From Abu Fâtime (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): O Messenger of Allah! I said, 'Let me know about a deed that I will stand straight on. He said: hug. Surely, you do not prostrate to Allahu ta'ala, so that Allah does not raise you a level with it. And let him not make a mistake from you with it)
1488-) - “... From Ma'dân bin ebî Talha al-Yamurî (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I met Sevban (radiyallahu anh). I said to him: Tell me a hadith that I hope will benefit me from Allahu ta'ala. Ma'dân (radiyallahu anh) said: (radiyallahu anh) remained silent. Then I went back and said the same as what I said. He was (again) silent. I repeated three times. After that, Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh) said to me: Hold on to prostration (prostrate abundantly) because I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He said: There is no servant who prostrates, except that Allah will not raise him one degree by prostration. And let him not drop a sin from him with that prostration. ) Ma'dân (radiyallahu anh) said: ... Then I came across Abu'd-Darda' (radiyallahu anh). I wished him the same. He also said the same as the words of Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh). "
1490-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) heard him say: There is no servant who prostrates, but Allah does not give him any good deeds with that prostration. Let him not write, erase one of his sins, and raise him one degree with that prostration. Prostrate a lot now. )
1491-) - “... From Enes bin Hakim ed-Dabba (radiyallahu anh); He said: Hurairah (radiyallahu anh) said to me: When you reach the people of your city, inform them that I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: The first thing that a Muslim slave will be brought to account for today is the fard prayer. If he has performed the obligatory prayer completely (no problem). Otherwise (to the angels by Allah): does he have supererogatory prayers? will be ordered. If it has nafilah, the obligatory prayers are completed from it. Then the same will be done about other fard deeds.)
1492-) - “... According to what is reported from Temîm ed-Dârî (radiy-Allâhu anh). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The first thing that a slave will be brought to account for on the day is the (fard) prayer. If he has done the fard completely, it will be considered a reward for him. If he did not do the fard completely, Allah Subhanahu wa Ta'ala said to his angels: Can you find anything for my slave from voluntary prayer? He will command you to replenish. Then other deeds are considered (calculated) accordingly.
1493-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He said: When someone is going to perform the prayer (i.e. sunnah), is he incapable of moving forward or retreating or to his right or left (retiring)?)
1494-) - “... According to what is reported from Al-Muğîre bin Branch (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “He cannot pray in the same place unless he moves from the place where he led the obligatory prayer. ) ...
1496-) - “... from Abdurrahman bin Shibl (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade three things: pecking (to prostrate as quickly as possible), the spreading of a predatory animal (spreading its arms on the ground in prostration) and a camel's (to collapse around water) making a homeland in a certain place. from taking the place where he prays (in the mosque) as his home.) "
1497-) - “... It is narrated from Yazid bin Abi Ubayd (radiyallahu anh) that bin al-Ekva' (radiyallahu anh) used to come to perform the morning prayer. (He used to go to the pillar near the Mushaf of Osman bin Affan (radiyallahu anh) in the Masjid an-Nabawi and pray in a place close to it. I would point to some parts of the mosque by saying: "You don't pray there? I saw him (alaihi wa sallam). He would desire this place (to pray)."
1498-) - “... From Abdullah bin es-Saib (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (Mecca) praying on the day of Conquest. He left his shoes on his left side. "
1499-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said with an honor, he said: Do not take off your feet. If you take it off, put it between your feet. them neither to the right side nor to the right of his friend; neither on your side nor behind you, so that you do not torment those in between. )
1500-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ali (radiyallahu anh). Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “There are six (rights) for a Muslim, in terms of customs and traditions. He greets when he meets her. When he invites him, he accepts his invitation. When he sneezes (and praises Allah when he sneezes), he accepts it. (Wishing him mercy) When he gets sick, he visits him. When he dies, he goes to his funeral. He desires for himself what he desires for himself.)
1501-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There are four characteristics for a Muslim: When he sneezes (and says Alhamdulillah), he is called Teşmit. it does. (He says Yerhamü-kellah.) When he invites, he accepts his invitation. When he dies, he is present at his funeral. She visits him when he is sick. )
1502-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Five things are the right of a Muslim over another Muslim. Refusing the greeting (= greeting the greeting), accepting the invitation, being present at the funeral, visiting the sick, praising the person who sneezes when he praises Allah (wishing mercy on him). ) ..... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: While I was in the tribe of Beni Selime, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) visited me on foot and Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) visited me. "
1504-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would not visit any sick person after three days (after illness). " ". . . According to what is narrated from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When you enter him, give him hope for the longevity of his life and dispel his grief. Because this hope does not turn anything away. And it pleases the heart of the patient. )
1506-) - “... From (Abdullah) Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) visiting a sick man: . what does he pull?) he asked. The man said: I have an appetite for wheat bread. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If he has wheat bread with him, he should send it to his brother. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “When a patient craves something, let him eat it.” "
1507-) - “... Enes bin . From Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went to a patient and visited him. And : do you taste the thing? Do you want a donut?) he asked. The man said: Yes. The people there demanded donuts for him. "
1508-) - “... from Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) told me: (Ask him to pray for you when you come near a sick person. Because his prayer is like the prayer of angels (acceptable).)
1510-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If an angel from the sky visits the sick person: You have done a good and good job. Your walk was beautiful and beneficial. You have prepared yourself a mansion from Heaven, he exclaims. )
1511-) - “... According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Instill Lailâhe illallah (to those who are on your deathbed). )
1512-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Suggest Lailahe illallah (to those who are on their deathbed). )
1513-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Cafer's father (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Suggest (to those who are on their deathbed) dhikr. ) Companions: O Messenger of Allah! How is (this suggestion) for the living? they asked. He said: it is beautiful; it is more beautiful. )
1514-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Say no. Because surely the angels say to what you say: Amen!) Me when Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh) passed away. Arriving at the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) he said: O Messenger of Allah! I said that Abu Salama (radiyallahu anh) died. He said: (Say: O Allah! Forgive me and him. And give me a righteous successor after him.) Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: I have done (this). Allah gave me a better wife than him, (who is) the Messenger of Allah, Muhammad (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). -"
1515-) - “... According to what is reported from Ma'kil bin Yasar (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Read the sura (that is, the 'Yasin' surah) next to your deceased. )
1516-) - “... From Abdurrahman bin Ka'b bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); According to what his father (Ka'b bin Malik) (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated: Umm Bishr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the daughter of al-Barâ bin Ma'rur, who came to him when he (radiy-Allâhu anh) died: Ebâ Abdurrahman! He said, "If you come across such a man (after he died), say hello to him for me." Say Ka'b (radiyallahu anh): May he forgive you, Umm Bishr! “We are (currently) too busy with other things,” he said. Umm Bishr (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): Ebâ Abdurrahman! Did you not hear the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: The souls of the believers are in green birds. They get sustenance from the trees of Paradise. ) Ka'b (radiyallahu anh) replied: (I heard). Umm Bishr (radiyallahu anha) said: This is it. "
1517-) - “... From Muhammad bin al-Münkadir (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: When bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anh) was on his deathbed, I went to him and said to him: Say hello to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). "
1518-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); One day (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered her room, and death blocked the breath of a relative who was with Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) at that time. (She was dying.) When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw the state of sadness in Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), he said to her: Do not grieve for your relative. Because this (suffering) is one of his good deeds. ) commanded. "
1519-) - “... According to what is reported from Burayda (bin al-Husayb) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He dies with sweat. )
1520-) - “... From Abu Musa (radiyallahu anh): He said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) when the servant who entered his bed ceased to recognize people. He said: When he observes the angels charged with receiving and the things related to the realm of barzakh). )
1521-) - “... From Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha): He said: Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered the (funeral) of Abu Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh). Abu Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh) had an open eye. The Lord closed His eyes. Then he said: When the soul is taken, the eye follows it.)
1522-) - “... According to what is reported from Shaddad bin Evs (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When you are present with (those who are on their deathbed), close your eyes (when you die). Because the eye follows the soul. And say no. Because the angels say to the household of the dead; Amen, they say. )
1523-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: While bin Maz'un (radiy-Allâhu anh) was dead, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) kissed him, and I seem to be looking at the tears flowing down his cheeks while kissing him. "
1524-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas and Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhum): While he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) died, Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) kissed him. "
1525-) ... From Umm Atiyya (radiy-Allâhu anha): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to us while we were washing his daughter, Umm Kulthum (radiy-Allâhu anha), and said: Three or five (with water and sidr) times) or even more if necessary. For the last time, use a camphor or camphor type fragrance. Let me know when you've finished the washing job. ) commanded. We let him know when we finished washing. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) gave us his own izar called 'Hakv' and said: Make an underwear for my daughter.
1526-) - “... Hafsa narrated the same hadith that Muhammad bin Şîrîn had narrated from Umm Atiyya (radiy-Allâhu anhâ). In Hafsa's hadith, the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) hadith: (Wash my daughter, not in pairs) alone. ) command. Also in Hafsa's hadith: wash three or five times. ) command. (Likewise) in Hafsa's hadith: start washing from the right side and from the ablution limbs. ) command. Again in Hafsa's hadith, Umm Atiyya (radiyallahu anha) said: And we combed Umm Kulthum's (radiyallahu anha) hair and made three braids. "
1527-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Do not open it. Do not look at the thigh of the living or the dead. ) ..... According to what is narrated from Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "People you trust should wash it.) "... Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh) said: If he washes a dead body, shrouds it, spreads fragrance on his shroud, carries his corpse, prays on it, and does not spread what he sees against the dead (from bad signs), he will be out of his mistakes like the day he was born from his mother. ) ..... Abu Hurayra -(radiyallahu anh)' According to what is narrated from: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (Whoever washes a dead body (after washing) should make a ghusl.)
1531-) - “... From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): He said: If the view that appears now had appeared earlier, no one other than his wives would have washed the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (his funeral). "
1532-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) returned from Baki and found me sick with a pain in my head. Me at that time: Wow! I was saying. Him: Aisha! In fact, I should say wow. ) commanded. Then he said: ((O Aisha!) Even if you died before me, if I stood by you and washed you, shrouded you, performed your funeral prayer and buried you, nothing would harm you.) "
1533-) - “... From Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: When they wanted to start washing the (deceased) Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), someone from inside called out to them: Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)’ Do not peel off his shirt! he called. "
1534-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali bin Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh): When he washed (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) he searched for (urine and faeces) in the dead but could not find what he was looking for and said: May my father be sacrificed for you. . You are very clean. He said, 'You were clean when you were alive, and you are clean when you were dead. "
1535-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali (bin Abi Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Whenever, wash me with seven lads of water from the well called Ghars. )
1537-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) Sehuliyya (called) was shrouded in three pieces of white and thin cloth. "
1538-) - “... From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was shrouded in three parts: the shirt in which he died and the Najran material hulle. "
1539-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: The best one is the white one. For this, shroud your dead in white clothes and wear white clothes. )
1540-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (The best of the shroud is the hulle.)
1541-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When someone takes over his (deceased) religious brother's equipment and invocation, let him make his takf in a good way. )
1542-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: When the son of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) died, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to his Companions: Do not include him in their shrouds unless you look at him (my son). (When the washing was finished and he was going to wrap himself in his shrouds) Our Master came to him and bent over him and wept. "
1543-) - “... From Hilal bin Yahya (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (bin el Yernân) (radiy-Allâhu anh) used to say when he had a funeral: Do not announce his death to anyone. I'm seriously afraid this is nai. I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) with these two ears. Naiden refused. "
1544-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Transfer quickly. If the dead is a good person, there is good in front of him, you will reach that good as soon as possible. If the funeral is not a good person, it is an evil, you will have it off your shoulders (as soon as possible). )
1545-) ... From Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The one who follows should carry it by holding all the sides of the body (in order). Because it is sunnah to do so. Then (by carrying it again) if he wishes, let him do it in vain. Let him carry it if he wishes. "
1546-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ashari) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw that the Companions took a dead body quickly and said: Let him be dignified. ) commanded. " ". . . From Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the maula of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) saw some people riding on their riding animals and attending a funeral, and he said: "Do you not feel ashamed that the angels of Allah walk on their feet even though you are a rider?" "
1548-) - “... According to what is reported from Al-Mughira bin Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh), he said: 'I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He said: He goes behind the funeral. The pedestrian walks on the side of the corpse he wishes. )
1549-) - “... From the father of Salim (Abdullah bin Omar) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); I saw Abu Bakr and Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) walking in front of the funeral on foot. "
1550-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman (radiyallahu anhum) would walk in front of the funeral. " ..... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He is the one who is obeyed. Of course, he is not (wake up). Those who went in front of the funeral attended the funeral. they don't.)
1552-) - “... From Imran bin al-Hisayn and Abu Herze (radiyallahu anhuma); They said: We went out with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) to present a funeral. The Prophet saw some people who had thrown off their rida and were walking in shirts. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (to them): Do you hold the act of the age of ignorance? Or are you trying to be like them by doing the same thing as the age of ignorance? I seriously wanted to curse you so that you would return (from the grave) in a form other than this one. ) commanded. Thereupon, the men took their rida and never did so again.
1553-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Do not delay it when it is ready. )
1554-) - “... Who from Hürde (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: When Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiy-Allâhu anh) dies, he willed: Do not bring micmer (fire) behind the funeral. The people there asked him: Have you heard anything about this matter? He said: Yes, from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam).
1555-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The funeral in which a hundred Muslims pray, will be forgiven.” “.... From Abdullah bin Abbas' maula, Kureyb (radiy-Allâhu anhum); He said: bin Abbas ( A son of radiyallahu anhuma died. Then Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) said to me: Kurayb! Get up and see if anyone has gathered for my son (un funeral) and said (I looked and) I said yes. Thereupon: to you! He asked, "How many people do you think? Are there forty (people)?" I said: They are more. Thereupon, he said: Take my son's corpse. I testify that I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: The intercession of the believing community of forty people who intercede for one believer will be accepted.)
1557-) - “... According to what is reported from Mersed bin Abdillah al-Vezani (radiyallahu anh), he said:. bin Hubaira ash-Shamî (radiy-Allâhu anh)—This person was a Companion. — when a corpse was brought, when he saw few people who came with the corpse, he would divide them into three ranks. Then he would lead the funeral prayer. And he used to say: No doubt the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he performs prayers on a funeral in three rows, their arrangement makes it wajib (= fixed) that the dead person's forgiveness or being in Paradise. )
1558-) - “... From Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (Once) a funeral was passed by the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (and some Companions). The funeral was commemorated with goodness (by the Companions who were there). The Prophet: (fixed) it happened. ) commanded. Then another burial was passed from there. That funeral was commemorated with evil by the Companions who were there. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) also (again): (fixed). ) commanded. Thereupon, Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh) said: O Messenger of Allah! For that (first) funeral, you said: "It has become obligatory." For this (final) funeral, you said: "It has become wajib.' The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: His witness or necessity (wajib and fixed) Believers are Allah's witnesses on earth. "
1559-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He once said: A funeral was passed by the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (and some of his companions). ) he commanded. Then they passed another funeral by Him. This funeral was commemorated (by the Companions there) with an evil that is considered one of the evil acts. The Lord said: (= fixed) it happened. Surely, you are Allah's witnesses on earth.) "
1560-) - “... From Samura bin Junduh al-Fezari (radiyallahu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) led the funeral prayer of a woman (Ummu Ka'b from Ansar) who died in puerperium. (In prayer) He stood right in the middle of the corpse. "
1561-) - “... from Abu Galip (radiyallahu anh); He said: I saw Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh) doing the following: While leading the funeral prayer of a man (named Abdullah bin Umayr), he stood at the level of the head of the corpse, then another corpse of a woman (from the Ansar) was brought. Jamaat Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh): O Ebâ Hamza! They said, 'Let's pray for it. Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh) stood to pray towards the level of the middle of the na's (right). Then al-Alâ' bin Ziyâd (radiy-Allâhu anh) said to him: Ebâ Hamza! He said, "Did you see that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood where you stood while the man was leading the funeral prayer, and the woman stood where you stood while leading the funeral prayer and did the same as you did." Enes (radiyallahu anh) said: Yes. Thereupon, al-Alâ' (radiy-Allâhu anh) turned to us and said: (Remember this). "
1562-) ... From Ebû-l Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) recited the Fatiha (sura) of the Quran (while leading the prayer) on the funeral. " ..... From Umm Sharik al-Ansariyya (radiyallahu anha): He said: He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered us to recite the Fatiha (sura) of the Holy Qur'an on the funeral (when we pray).
1564-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) He said: When you pray on it, pray for it with sincerity. )
1565-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): He said: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) prayed on a funeral, he would recite the following prayer: forgive our man and woman! Let those whom you have made live among us live according to the religion of Islam! Kill those whom I will kill among us, in faith! Do not deprive us of the reward of this funeral and do not lead us astray after that. )
1566-) - “... From Vasile bin el-Eska' (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led the funeral prayer on a Muslim man. I heard him praying like this: (My God! So and so of his son is under your protection. He is dependent on your book that will lead to your salvation. Protect him from the torment of the grave and the torment of the fire. You are a faithful one and a realizer of the right. Forgive him. , have mercy on him. Surely you are Ghafur. You are Rahim. )
1567-) - “... From Avf bin Malik al-Eşcaî (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I witnessed (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performing the funeral prayer on a (dead) man from the Ansar. And I heard (with my ear) reciting the following prayer (at the funeral prayer): Peace be upon him. Forgive him. Have mercy on him. Protect him from trouble. forgive him. Purify him (from sins) with the kinds of mercy in the form of water, snow and hail. Make him clean from sins and faults as his white dress is cleansed of dirt. Give (him) a house better than his house in return for the house (he left in this world), give (him) a better family than his family, and protect him from the temptation of the grave and the torment of the fire. )
1568-) - “... from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); He said: Neither the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), nor Abu Bakr nor Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) gave us permission for anything as much as they gave permission for the funeral prayer. That is, they did not tie the (funeral prayer) to a time. "
1569-) - “... From Osman bin Affan (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prayed on the (funeral) of Osman bin Maz’un (radiy-Allâhu anh). And he uttered takbir four times over the funeral (in prayer). "..... From Al-Heceri (radiyallahu anh): He said: I performed the funeral prayer of his daughter together with Abdullah bin Abi Evfa al-Aslemi (radiyallahu anh), one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). anh) uttered takbir four times (in prayer) on his funeral. After the fourth takbir (not immediately saluting) he stopped for a while. I heard the voices of 'Subhanallah' from several places in the rows to warn the imam of the congregation. Then he saluted. Then: You made my takbir five times. The congregation said: "We were worried about this," they said. He said: "I will not say takbir five times. Then he would greet.” . The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) uttered takbir four times during the funeral prayer. "
1572-) - “... from Abdurrahman bin Abi Leyla (radiyallahu anh); He said: bin Erkam (radiyallahu anh) used to say takbir four times over our funerals. He recited takbir five times (once) on a funeral. I asked this to him. He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to say takbir five times. "
1573-) - “... According to what is reported from Kathir bin Abdillah's grandfather (Amr bin Avf El Yeskuri) (radiy-Allâhu anhum): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) recited takbir five times (at his funeral prayer).
1574-) - “... From Al-Mughira bin Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh): He said: I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He said: The funeral prayer is performed on it.) "..... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Then, the funeral prayer is performed on it. And it becomes an heir. According to what is reported by Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Perform the funeral prayer on it, because they are certainly one of your farat (= pioneers). )
1577-) - “... From Ismail bin Abi Khalid (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: I said to Abdullah bin Abi Evfâ (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): Have you seen Ibrahim, the son of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)? that : He died when he was young. If there had been a divine decree that there should be a prophet after Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), the son of Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would have lived. However, there is no prophet after the Prophet. "
1578-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: When the son of Abraham (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) passed away, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led the funeral prayer. And he said: There is a person in Paradise who breastfeeds him. Had he lived, he would have been a siddiq prophet. If he had lived, his Coptic uncles would have been freed. And no Copt was to be used as a slave. )
1579-) ... From Huseyin bin Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anhuma); She said: When Kasim, the son of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) died, (his mother) Hatice (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: O Messenger of Allah! Kasım's little milk overflowed. He wished that God had kept him alive until he reached the age of milk. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “It will be in Paradise for her to complete her milk.” Hatice (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: O Messenger of Allah: If I knew this, this knowledge would make his (death) job easier for me. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If you wish, I can pray to Allahu ta’âlâ so that I can hear his voice.” Khadija (radiyallahu anha) said: No, I approve of Allah and His Messenger. "
1580-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: On the day of the (war), the bodies of the martyrs were brought to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) began to lead the prayer over ten funeral groups in turn. The funeral of Hamza (radiyallahu anh) was as it was. Other corpses (at the end of the prayer) were removed (and other corpses were placed in their place). "
1581-) - “... from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was placing two and three of the martyrs of Uhud (war) in a grave. And (to us): Which one learned and memorized the Qur'an more?) was asking. When one of the martyrs, two or three each, was pointed out, he would put him before the grave (and to the qibla side) and said: (On the Day of Judgment) I am a witness that they sacrificed their lives. ) commanded. And he was ordering the martyrs to be buried in their blood without being washed and prayed on them. "
1582-) - “... From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered that the iron and leather parts of the martyrs of Uhud be stripped and they should be buried with their blood in their clothes. "
1583-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: Although the martyrs of Uhud were transferred to Medina, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered them to be taken back to the places where they were martyred. "
1584-) - “... According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he prays in the mosque on a funeral, nothing will happen to him. )
1585-) - “... From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) it said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not pray in any place other than the mosque on Suhayl bin Beyda (radiy-Allâhu anh). Mâce said: The hadith of Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) is stronger. "
1587-) ... From Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) personally included a deceased man in the grave at night, and the lamp was lit in the grave (to illuminate the burial). "
1588-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, he said: Do not bury your dead at night unless you meet a necessity.) "
1589-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “And pray (you can) over your dead during the day.
1590-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma). He said: When Abdullah bin Ubayy died, his son (Abdullah) (radiy-Allâhu anh) came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlallah! Give me your (blessed) shirt. Let me shroud my father with him, he said (Our master gave his shirt). Then the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Let me know when it is ready (I will perform the prayer.) "You shouldn't be praying," he said. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) offered his prayer. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): I am choosing between two things: (Allahu ta’âlâ has said:) Whether you seek forgiveness for hypocrites or not. ) Repentance: He said 80. Thereupon, Allah Subhanah said: Do not pray over any of the hypocrites who die. And don't stand on his grave. ) Repentance: He revealed 84 verses. "
1591-) - “... From Tâbir (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The leader of the hypocrites in Medina (Abdullah bin Ubayy) died and he bequeathed the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) to make his own shirt a shroud for him. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed his funeral prayer. He shrouded her with his own shirt and stood by his grave. Thereupon, Allâhu ta'âlâ said: Do not pray over any deceased person, and do not stand by his grave. )-" ..... According to what was narrated from Wasile bin al-Aska (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Pray on a Muslim dead body and make jihad together with every amir.)
1593-) - “... from Jabir bin Samura (radiyallahu anh); He said: A man from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was injured. The wound tormented him. Thereupon, the wounded slowly went to the place where the iron parts of the arrows were and strangled himself with them. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did not pray over him. Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: The Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) not performing prayers was an act of disbelief. "
1594-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: A black woman was sweeping the Prophet's Mosque. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) could not see him. A few days later he asked about the woman. It was said: That woman died. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: You did not inform me? Then he went to his grave and prayed over it. "
1595-) - “... From Yezîd bin Sabit (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the elder brother of Zayd bin Thabit; He said: "Day) We went out (out) with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). When our Lord reached Baki, he encountered a new tomb and asked to whom it belonged. They said: So-and-so belongs to the woman. Our Lord recognized that woman and said: Didn't you inform me about her funeral? They said: You were sleeping in the middle of the day. You were fasting. That's why we didn't like to let you know. The Prophet: (such a thing again) I don't know. As long as I am among you, when any of you dies, be sure to inform me of him. Because the prayer I perform on him is a mercy for him.) Then he went to the tomb. And we sided with Him. He made four takbirs on the grave (prayed).
1596-) - “... from Amir bin Rabia (radiyallahu anh); He said: a woman died. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was not informed. He was informed after the burial. Thereupon he said: You did not inform me about this?). Then be pure on his Companions: his grave). ) and he led the prayer on it. "
1597-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma): He said: The man died. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was visiting him (while he was sick). They buried him at night. In the morning, they informed the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) of his death. The Prophet said: What prevented you from informing (at night)? They said: It was night, there was darkness. We didn't want to trouble you. Thereupon, the Prophet went to the man's grave and prayed on it. "
1598-) - “... from Enes (radiyallahu anh); He said: After a dead body was buried, the Prophet (peace be upon him) performed the funeral prayer on the grave. "
1599-) - “... from Burayda (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed the funeral prayer on a dead body after burial. "
1600-) - “... from Abu Said (radiyallahu anh); He said: a woman. He was sweeping the Masjid an-Nabawi. He died in the night. In the morning, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was informed of the death of the woman. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: You did not inform me (at night)? ) commanded. Then he went out with his Companions and stood on the woman's grave. Even though the congregation was behind him, he said takbir on the woman (he led the funeral prayer). She prayed to him, then came back. "
1601-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Negus has died. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and his Companions went out to Baki. Our Prophet (PBUH) lined up behind us and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood in front of us and said four takbirs. " ..... According to what is reported from Imran bin al-Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Your brother Negus has died. Pray on him.) Imran (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: He stood up to pray. We prayed behind him. I was in the second row. He led his prayer in two rows."
1603-) - “... According to what is reported from Mucemmi' bin Câriye al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Your brother Negus has died. Get up and pray. ) The Prophet lined us up behind him in two rows. "
1604-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe bin Esid (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) took the Companions (out) and prayed over a brother who died in another place. ) commanded. Companions: Who is he? they asked. The Prophet said: (Negus!). " ..... From Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed the funeral prayer (in absentia) on the Negus (radiy-Allâhu anh) and said four takbirs (in prayer).”
1606-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If he performs a funeral prayer, he will receive one qirat (reward).” Whoever waits until the burial is finished, he will have two carats (good deeds). ) Companions: What are two carats? they asked. He said: It is like a mountain. )
1607-) - “... According to what is reported from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "There is one qirat (reward) for the person who prays on the funeral, and two qirats (thawab) for the person who is found in the burial of the corpse. ) (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked what the qirat is. He said: (The mountain) is like it. )
1608-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubay bip Ka'b (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There is a qirat (thawab) for the one who prays on the funeral. There are two carats (good deeds) for those who are present at the funeral until the burial is finished. I swear by (Allah) in whose hand is Muhammad's soul, that the carat is greater than this mountain of Uhud. )
1609-) - “... According to what is reported from Amir bin Rabia (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When you see it, stand up until the corpse passes and leaves you behind, or until you are lowered (to the ground). (Stand up.) "
1610-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: A funeral was passed by the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He stood up and said (to us): get up. For surely there is fear and dread for death. ) commanded. "
1611-) - “... from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood up because a funeral had passed, and so did we. Finally he stopped standing and sat down. Now we stopped standing up and sat down. "
1612-) - “... From Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went with a funeral; the corpse would not sit until it was lowered into the grave. Then a Jewish scholar stopped by him and said: Muhammad! “This is how we do it,” he said. After that, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) sat down and said (to us): Oppose. (Sit down.)) he commanded. "
1613-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: Once I could not find him—that is, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) at home—but I called him.) I saw that he was in the Bakî' cemetery. He said: O you, the cemetery (people) of a believing people! You are farats for us, and we are sure to join you. my god! Do not deprive us of their reward. And do not lead us astray from the right path after them. ) The pioneers who will go there to make the necessary preparations at the destination of a tribe that will set off are called. ..... From Burayda (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) taught his Companions (what to say) when they would go out to the cemetery. (One of them who went to the cemetery) used to say: O believers and Muslim people of this land! Insha Allah we will join you. We wish God's comfort to ourselves and to you. )
1698-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)'s daughter) Fatima (radiyallahu anha) said to me: Anas! How did your hearts please to scatter soil on the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)? said. ... According to Thabit (radiyallahu anh) from Anas (radiyallahu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) died, Fatima (radiyallahu anha); O father, whose death we informed Gabriel! Article. My father, who was surprisingly close to his Lord! O my father, whose rank is Cennetü'l-Firdevs! O my father, who responded to the invitation of his Lord, he explained his sadness. he said; I saw Thabit (radiyallahu anh) when he narrated this hadith. She cried so much that I saw her ribs come and go. "
1700-) - “... Enes bin . From Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: The day the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) entered Madinah, everything in Madinah shone. Then, on the day of his death, everything in Madinah became dark. And while we had not finished the burial of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) yet, we did not find our hearts on the old situation. "
1701-) - “... From Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: While we were alive (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) we used to avoid opening up and talking to our wives for fear that the Qur'an (verse) would be revealed about us. When the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) passed away, we talked (with them freely). "
1702-) - “... from Ubey bin Ka'b (radiyallahu anh); He said: When we were together with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), our goal and purpose was one. When he passed away, we looked like this, we looked like this. (Our targets were separated.)
1703-) - “... From Umm Salami bint Abi Umayya (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the respected wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He said: While he was alive, when people stood up to pray, no one's eyes would go beyond the place where their feet were. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) died, when one of the people stood up for prayer, no one's eyes would go beyond the place where they put their foreheads (in prostration). Then the caliph Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) died. And Umar (radiyallahu anh) (revolution) became. Now, when one of the people stood for prayer, no one's eyes would deviate from the direction of the qibla. Osman bin Affan (radiyallahu anh) (revolution) became. There was strife (in this period). People looked left and right. "
1704-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), after the death of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) said to Omar (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) He said, 'Let's go to visit Umm Ayman (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) just as he was going to visit her.' Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: When we all came to Him (Umm Ayman) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), Umm Ayman (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) cried (with the sadness of the Prophet’s (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) death). Abu Bakr and Umar (radiyallahu anhuma) asked him: Are you crying? They said that happiness in the sight of Allah is better for the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). He: I know without a doubt that the happiness with him is better for his Messenger. But he said, "I am crying because the revelation from the sky has been interrupted." Anas (radiyallahu anh) said: Eymen (radiyallahu anha) caused Abu Bakr and Omar (radiyallahu anhu) to cry. They started to cry along with him. "
1705-) - “... According to what is reported from Evs bin Aws (es-Sakafi) (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Friday is one of your most virtuous days. Adam (Aleyhis Salam) was created in him. Nafha (second trumpet blowing) is in it. And the Sa'ka (first trumpet blowing) is in it. From now on, bring a lot of blessings on me. Because your salawat (on that day) is presented to me. ) A man . O Messenger of Allah! How can our salawat be presented to you when your body has been eaten by the earth (Shaddad (radiyallahu anh), he said) that is, it has rotted? she asked. He said: (Allah has forbidden the earth to eat the corpses of the prophets). "
1706-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu'd-Darda' (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "Bring abundant blessings on me on the day. Because angels are present in that salawat. And certainly, when a (believer) person will send blessings on me, it will be offered to me (simultaneously) until his salawat is finished. ) Abu'd-Darda (radiyallahu anh) said: And after your death (is it like this)? said. Lord: And then. Undoubtedly, Allahu ta'ala forbade the Prophet's corpses to eat on the ground. The prophet of Allah is alive, he is provided with sustenance. ) commanded. "
1710-) ... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He said: If he fasts during Ramadan with faith and seeking his reward from Allah, his past sins will be forgiven) ..... Abu Hurayra (may Allah be pleased with him) According to what is narrated from Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When the first night of the month comes, the devils and the rebels of the jinn are put in chains. The gates of Hell are closed, but none of them are opened. The gates of Paradise are opened, but none of its doors are closed, and a caller says: O seeker of good (doing good), turn toward, o seeker of evil! keep Calm. He calls those who are freed from fire by Allah. This (the work of summoning and emancipation) happens every night of Ramadan. ) ..... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There are people who are freed by Allah (from the Hellfire) at every time of iftar. This happens every night (of Ramadan). )
1713-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: The moon has entered and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: You have entered the moon. In it is a night better than a thousand months. A person who is deprived of the earnings of this night will be deprived of all the good, and the person who does not have a share of happiness will be deprived of the good of this night.)
1714-) - “... From Sıla bin Züfer (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (Whether it was from Ramadan or Sha'ban) we were next to Ammar (bin Yasir) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) on the day of the sacrifice. . A (cooked) sheep was brought. Some of the congregation abstained from eating (him). Thereupon, Ammar (radiy-Allâhu anh) said, “If he fasts today, he will certainly have rebelled against Abu Kasim (Muhammad) (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). "
1715-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade hastening to fast for a day (with the intention of Ramadan) before seeing the crescent. "
1716-) - “... According to what is reported from Al-Qasim Abu Abdirrahman (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard Muâwiya bin Abi Sufyan (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) saying on the pulpit: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) He used to say on it: This is the day. We fast before that day comes. Now whoever wishes can hold it in advance. And whoever wishes, delays fasting until that day. )
1718-) - “... According to what is reported from Rebia bin al-Ghaz (radiyallahu anh), she asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha) about the fasting status of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and Aisha (radiyallahu anha) replied: Shaban He said that by fasting the whole month, he would finally connect Shaban with Ramadan.
1719-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Do not meet the Ramadan (month) fast with one or two days (fasting). However, the man who has the habit of fasting keeps that fast (keep it.))
1720-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When the month is half, there is no fasting until Ramadan comes. )
1721-) - “... From (Abdullah) Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: A'rabî came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: I saw the Ramadan crescent tonight. The Prophet said to him: Do you testify that there is no god but that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah? The man said: Yes. The Prophet: O Bilal! Make a public announcement for them to fast tomorrow. ) commanded.
1722-) - “... From Abu Umayr (Abdullah) bin Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: My uncles, one of the Companions of the Ansar, told me a hadith: The crescent of Shawwal was not seen because of the cloudy weather. For this reason, we fasted in the morning (the thirtieth day of Ramadan). That day, towards the evening, a congregation came and witnessed in the presence of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) that they had seen the crescent yesterday (evening). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered the Companions to break their fast and go to the Eid prayer tomorrow. "
1723-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Fast when you see the crescent moon and have iftar when you see the Shawwal crescent. Please pay. (Celebrate Ramadan by making it thirty days.) Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma) used to fast one day before the Ramadan crescent (when the weather was cloudy). "
1724-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Fast when you see the crescent moon and iftar when you see the moon of Shawwal. If it is cloudy, fast for thirty days. )
1725-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: How many days have passed?). Hurayra (radiyallahu anh) said: We replied, "Twenty-two days have passed and eight days are left." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said three times (pointing with the fingers of his hands): this is this, the moon is this, the moon is that. ) commanded, and the third time he smashed a finger. "
1726-) - “... According to what is reported from Sa'd bin Abi Vakkas (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (pointing with the fingers of his hands): this much, this much and this much. ) commanded. And the third time (with the ball of one finger) he stated the number twenty-nine. "
1727-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was alive, keeping the Ramadan fast for twenty-nine days was more than keeping it as thirty days. "
1728-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Bekreta (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "The months of Eid (which are) Ramadan and Dhul-Hijjah are not missing. )
1729-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The day of Ramadan is the day you break your fast. The day of sacrifice (festival) is the day you sacrifice the animal. )
1731-) - “... From Aisha (radiyallahu anha): He said: Hamza al-Aslemi (radiyallahu anh) told the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): I am fasting a lot. Will you allow me to fast while traveling? she asked. The Prophet said: fast, if you wish) "..... From Abu'd-Darda' (radiyallahu anh) said: It is possible that when we were with him on one of the journeys of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) one very hot day, I saw ourselves in such a situation that everyone He was putting his hand on his head because of the heat. There is no fasting person in our congregation other than the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and Abdullah bin Rawaha (radiy-Allâhu anh).
1733-) - “... According to what is reported from Ka'b bin Asim (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Fasting while traveling. (Matlub) is not an act of worship.) Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Fasting (matlub) while traveling is not an act of worship. )
1735-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdurrahman bin Awf (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, He said: A person who fasts in Ramadan is like one who does not fast in the past. ) Ishaq said: This hadith is nothing. "
1736-) - “... From the sons of Abdul-Ashhel (who was one of the sons of Abdullah bin Ka'b, according to Ali bin Muhammed) Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: their cavalry raided us and took our goods. Then I went to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He was eating his lunch. Me: (To the table) Get close, eat. ) commanded. I said: I am fasting. He said: (Sit down, let me tell you about fasting. Surely, Allah (Azza wa Jalla) sent down half of the four-rak'ah obligatory prayer from the neck of the traveller, and He sent down the fast from the necks of the traveler, pregnant woman and breastfeeding.) I swear by Allah that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered both or one of those who are pregnant and breastfeeding. I regret and regret why I did not eat the food of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). "
1737-) - “... From Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave permission not to fast during Ramadan for a pregnant woman who is afraid of harming herself, and for a lactating woman who is afraid of harming her child. "
1739-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ). He said: When we were with the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), we used to see the menstrual period (in the month of Ramadan). He used to order us to make up for the fast (in the number of days we did not fast) after (cleansing). "
1740-) ... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): He said: A man. He came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said; “I'm screwed,” he said. The Prophet asked: (What destroyed you?). The man said: I had sexual intercourse with my wife during Ramadan (daytime). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Free a slave). The man said: I can't find it. Our Lord; He said, "Fast two months in a row." The man said: I can't afford it. The Prophet said: (Feed sixty poor people.) The man said: I can't find it. The Prophet said: (Sit down). The man also sat down. While the man was sitting and waiting, a basket of dates called arak was brought. The Prophet said to him: (Go and distribute this date as charity). Man: O Messenger of Allah! “I swear by Allah, Who sent you with the truth (religion) that there is no family more needy than our family between the two black-stoned mountains of Medina,” he said. The Prophet (him) said: (Well, go and feed this to your family members). ... The author has also narrated this hadith from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) in a second veil. There is the following addition to this: And the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to the man: (And fast for one day instead of that day). "
1742-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he breaks his fast for one day in Ramadan without permission, it will not be enough for him to fast throughout the year. )
1743-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he eats (something) forgetfully while fasting, he should complete his fast (continue). Because God made him eat and drink. )
1744-) - “... From Esma' bint-i Ebî Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said; While (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was alive, we broke our fast-breaking fast on a cloudy day. Then the sun came up. Abu Usama said: I said to Hisham: Those who break their fast have been ordered to make up for that day's fast (?). Hisham said: There is no escape from accident. "
1746-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There is no need for qada for a fasting person who vomits except Whoever makes himself vomit needs an accident. )
1747-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “One of his good traits is miswak (using). )
1748-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) put on eyeliner while fasting. "
1749-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The fast of those who take care and those who are cupped will be broken. )
1750-) - “... From Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saying: “The fast of those who take care and those who are cupped is broken.)
1751-) - “... According to what is reported from Shaddad bin Aws (radiyallahu anh): One day, after eighteen nights, while walking in Baki with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), our Master met a man who was in a state of care and the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): The fast of a person who takes care and is cupped is broken. ) commanded. "
1752-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was cupped while fasting and in ihram.
1753-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to kiss his wife during the fasting month (daytime). "
1754-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to kiss (his wife) while fasting. And which one of you can control your soul as the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did?
1755-) - “... from Hafsa (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to kiss (his wife) while fasting. " ". . . From Maymuna (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the son of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) was asked about the situation of the man who kissed his fasting wife while fasting. He said: (The fast of both of them will be broken.)
1757-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibrahim (an-Nahai), al-Aswad (bin Yazid) and Masrûk went to Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) and said: Would he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) conduct himself while fasting? they asked; Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: She used to do it and she was the one with the most self-control. " ..... From Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: The old fasting person was granted permission, and the young fasting person was considered makruh."
1760-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There are people who fast; There is nothing other than fasting and starving himself. And there are many people who avoid the night prayer that nothing but sleeplessness will come to them when they get up. )
1761-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He should not say ugly words when it is a fasting day. And let nothing of the necessities of ignorance work. If anyone behaves ignorantly towards him, let him say = I am a fasting man. ) "
1762-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): eat and drink on time. Because there is abundance in it. ) commanded. "
1763-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Ask for help from the morning meal for fasting and from the noon rest to get up for night worship.)
1764-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); Zayd bin Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: We ate sehur together with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), and then we got up for the morning prayer. (Anas (radiyallahu anh) said:) Me: How long was the time between your meal and your morning prayer? I asked. Zayd (radiyallahu anh) said: Enough to recite fifty verses. "
1765-) - “... from Huzeyfe (radiyallahu anh); He said: I ate the sehur meal with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). The time of sehur (it is so close to the time of dawn that it is almost) is the dawn (it can be said.) With this difference; The sun (that is, the dawn) has not yet broken. "
1766-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Do not let the adhan prevent any of you from eating the suhoor meal. Because He calls the adhan so that your sleeper wakes up and the one who got up for night worship returns (to his rest or needs). Fecir is not the light coming out like this, it is the common way out on the horizon of the sky. )
1767-) - “... According to what is reported from Sahl bin Sa'd (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “As long as they hurry to break their fast, they will always live in goodness.”
1768-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "As long as they hurry to break their fast, they live on goodness. Hurry up iftar. Because the Jews delay their (iftar) meals. )
1769-) - “... According to what is reported from Salman bin Amir (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he breaks his fast, he should break it with dates. If he cannot find dates, let him break his fast with water. Because water is a cleaner.)
1770-) - “... According to what is reported from Hafsa (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There is no (saheeh) fasting for those who do not intend to fast. )
1771-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to me and asked: “Do you have anything (to eat) with you?” We too; No, we say. He also stands on his fast by saying: Then I am fasting. Then we are presented with something to eat, and she breaks her fast. (Râvi Mujahid said: I asked Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) how this could happen. She said: The situation is like the situation of a person who gives some and keeps some after leaving a charity.
1772-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): He said: I swear by the Lord of the Kaaba! I did not say, "A person who wakes up as a junub should break his fast". This word was said by Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). "
1773-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to spend the night as junub (because of approaching his wife). Then Bilal (radiyallahu anh) would come and inform him that it was time for the morning prayer. He would also get up and make ghusl. I used to watch the ghusl come down from his head. Then He took him out to the Masjid. I heard his voice in the morning prayer. Mutarrif said: I asked the narrator Âmir (ash-Sha'bî): (This situation) is it during Ramadan? I asked. He said: Ramadan and anyone else are equal. "
1774-) - “... From Rafi' (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I asked Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) the condition of a man who wanted to catch up and woke up as junub in the morning (our master's wife). He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to wake up as a junub, not because of irritability, but because of approaching his wife, then he would take his ablution and complete his fast. "
1775-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah biti al-Shihhir (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “If he fasts all the time, he neither fasted nor did he (it is counted).
1776-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever fasts does not fast (it is considered). "
1777-) - “... from Al-Minhal (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) orders fasting on the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth days of every month and says: (fasting) is like always fasting or like always fasting. ) would command. ..... According to what is reported from Qatada bin Melhan al-Qaysî, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said something like this. Mâcete said: Shu'ba was wrong. Hemmâm narrated correctly. "
1779-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If a person fasts three days out of every month, that is constant fasting. ) commanded. In the book (Azza wa Jalla): (Whoever does a good deed, he will be given ten times that goodness. En'am : 160 verse of the Qur'an confirms this. Therefore, every day (fasting) is equivalent to ten days (fasting)'.
1780-) - “... According to what is reported from Muâza al-Adeviyya (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) three days from each month. He was fasting, he said. I asked: From which part of the moon (would it amount?). Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) ; “He didn't care what part of the moon it was from,” she replied. "
1781-) - “... From Abu Salama (bin Abdirrahman) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: I asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha) about the fasting of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He said: (in some months) he used to fast so much (that we would say: He always fasted. And in some months) he would be so fasting that we would say: he stopped fasting. And I have never seen him fasting more (voluntarily) in a month than in Sha'ban. He used to fast most of the month of Sha'ban. "
1782-) - “... from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to fast so much in some months that we used to say: he will not stop fasting. And in some months he would stop fasting so much that we would say: he will not. Since his visit to Madinah, he has not fasted any month except Ramadan. "
1783-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The most beloved fasting is the fast of Dawud. Because he used to fast one day and break fast the next day. And the most beloved (nafilah) prayer to Allah is the prayer of David. He slept in the middle of the night. He used to spend one-third of it in prayer and (last) one-sixth of sleep. ) '
1784-) - “... From Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh): He said: bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh): O Messenger of Allah! What is the situation of a person who fasts for two (continuous) days and leaves the fast for one day? she asked. The Prophet said: (Can anyone have the power to do this?). Omar asked: O Messenger of Allah! He asked, "What is the situation of a person who fasts for one (continuous) day and does not fast for two days?"
1785-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As (radiyallahu anhuma), he said: I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He said: (Aleyhisselâm) He fasted all year, except on the first day of Eid-al-Fitr and the first day of Eid-al-Adha. )
1786-) - “... According to what is reported from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the maula of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "If he fasts for six days after Ramadan (and fasts) after Eid, his fast becomes the fast of the whole year. Whoever does good will be given ten times that goodness. )
1787-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Ayyub (-i Ansari) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If he fasts in Ramadan and then fasts for six days after Shawwal, his fast is like fasting throughout the year. )
1788-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he fasts for a day in the way of Allah, Allah will remove Hellfire from his body with that day's fast. seventy years away. )
1789-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If he fasts for one day in the way of Allah, Allah will keep his body seventy years away from the fire of Hell."
1790-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The days of tashrik are the days of eating and drinking. ) ..... From Bishr bin Suhaym (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) addressing the days of tashrik: No one other than a Muslim person will be able to enter? And surely these are the days of eating and drinking. ) commanded. "
1792-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh). He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade fasting on the day of Fitr (the first day of Ramadan) and Eid-al-Adha. "
1793-) - “... From Abu Ubayd (Sa'd bin Ubayd) (radiyallahu anh): He said: I was with Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh) on Eid-al-Adha. First he performed the Eid prayer, then (in the sermon he delivered): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade fasting on the day of Fitr and the day of Sacrifice. “The day of sacrifice is the day you eat the meat of your sacrifices,” he said. "
1794-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade fasting on Friday. However, he did not forbid his fast on Friday with the day before or the day after. "
1795-) - “... From Muhammad bin Abbad bin Ja'far (radiyallahu anh): He said: While circumambulating the Ka'ba, to Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhu): The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said Friday did he forbid the day from fasting? I asked. He said: I swear by the Lord of this Bayt, yes. (he forbade.)
1796-) - “... from Abdullah bin Mes'ud (radiyallahu anh); He said: I rarely saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) without fasting on Friday.
1797-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Busr (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He said: Except for fasting, which is obligatory. Do not fast on Saturday. If any of you (that day) finds nothing (to eat or drink) other than a grape stick or a bark, let him suck it. ) ... Humayd bin Mes'ade ..... as narrated by Abdullah bin Busr's brother (as-Sammâ') (radiy-Allâhu anhum), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: he explained the same. "
1799-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) : There are no other days (when good deeds will be found) more beloved to Allah than the righteous deeds we have in these days (that is, the first ten days of Dhul-Hijjah). ) commanded. O Messenger of Allah! Is jihad in the way of Allah also (not more beloved)? they asked. He: ) Jihad in the way of Allah. Unless a man goes to jihad with his soul and wealth and cannot bring back anything from his own wealth and self. He said, "His deed is better than the deed in these ten days." "
1800-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There are no days in this world where worship is more beloved to Allah than the worship of Allah Subhanahu in ten days. And no doubt, one day's fast in those days will definitely coincide with one year's fast and one night in them will definitely coincide with the night of power. )
1801-) - “... From Aisha (radiyallahu anha) she said: "I never saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) fasting for ten days of Dhul-Hijjah. "
1802-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'I hope that fasting on the day of Arafa will make expiation for the year before it and the year after it. )
1803-) - “... According to what is reported from Qatada bin Nu'mân (radiy-Allâhu anh): I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He said: If he fasts on the day of Arafa, the year before it and the year after it (his sins) will be forgiven. )
1804-) - “... From Ikrima (radiyallahu anh): He said: I went to Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh) in his house and asked him about the ruling of fasting on Arafat on Arafat. He said; (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prohibited fasting on the day of Arafa in Arafat. "
1805-) - “... From Aisha (radiyallahu anha): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to fast on the day of Ashura and ordered to fast on that day. "From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: After emigrating to Medina, he found the Jews there fasting (the day of Ashura). And he asked: What fast is this day? It is the day when Allah saved Musa (from his enemies) and had Pharaoh drowned. He said: 'We are closer and more rightful than you.) And he fasted that day. He also ordered to fast that day. "
1807-) - “... From Muhammad bin Sayfi (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) asked us on the day of Ashura: "Did any of you eat anything today?" We replied: There are some who eat from us and some who do not. He said: "All of you who have eaten (something) and have not eaten (something) anymore, complete the rest of your day (with fasting) and send news to the people of Arud. Let them complete the rest of the day (with fasting). ) The narrator said: He meant the people of Arud around Medina. "
1808-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) : If I survive until next year. I will fast on the ninth day of Muharram. ) commanded. Ali said: Ahmad bin Yunus narrated this hadith from Ibn Abi Zi'b and added the following: Fearing to miss the day of Ashura (The Prophet (pbuh) said so.) ..... Abdullah bin Omar (bin al-Khattab) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) said: The day of Ashura was mentioned in the presence of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is a day when the people of ignorance fast. From now on, those who want to fast on that day should keep it, and those who do not want to fast on that day should leave that day's fast. )
1810-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I hope that he will forgive (sins) of the previous year by fasting on the day of Ashura. )
1812-) - “... from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to fast on Mondays and Thursdays. He said to him: Messenger of Allah! He was asked about his wisdom, "You fast on Monday and Thursday." He said: And on Thursdays, Allah forgives every Muslim. The angry ones are exceptional. Allah says: 'Leave them until these two resentful people reconcile'.)
1813-) - “... From the father or uncle of Abu Mucîbe al-Bahili (radiy-Allâhu anhum); He said: Arriving at the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) he said: O Prophet of Allah! "I'm the guy who came to you last year," I said. He : happened? I see your body weak. ) commanded. (The narrator said: O Messenger of Allah, the addressee of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)! (The man said:) I said: O Messenger of Allah! I am strong. He said: (Fast the month of patience (Ramadan) and a day after it). I said (more than that) is enough. He said: (Fast for the month of patience and two days after that.) I said: Surely I have enough strength (more than that). He said: (The month of patience, fast for three days after that.) and fast for the forbidden months.)
1814-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): The man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Which fast is best after Ramadan? she asked. He said: Shahrullah (fasting), which we call.) "
1815-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade Rajab (bear) fasting. "
1816-) - “... According to what is reported from Muhammad bin Ibrahim: Usama bin Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) used to fast during the forbidden months. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to him; fast for the month. ) ordered. Thereupon, Usama (radiy-Allâhu anh) always fasted the month of Shawwal until he passed away, leaving the forbidden months of fasting. "
1817-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The zakat of the body is also fasting. ) The narrator Muhriz, in his own narration, said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: It is half of patience. ) added what he commanded. "
1818-) - “... According to what is reported from Zayd bin Khalid al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Whoever gives iftar (meal) will have the same reward as those fasting people without detracting from their rewards. )
1819-) - “... From Abdullah bin Zubayr (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) opened his iftar in the presence of Sa’d bin Muâz (radiy-Allâhu anh). Later: . . . . . . . . . he commanded. "
1820-) - “... from Umm Ümâre (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to us. We offered him food. One of those with him was fasting. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When a meal is eaten with him, angels pray and ask forgiveness for him. )
1821-) - “... According to what is reported from Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh): “O Bilal! We are eating our sustenance. Bilal's bounty is in heaven. O Bilal! Do you know that his bones are glorified as long as food is eaten next to the fasting person and that the angels beg forgiveness for him?)
1822-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When you are invited to a meal while you are fasting, let him say: I am fasting."
1823-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If a person is invited to a meal while he is fasting, let him respond. Now he can eat if he wishes, or stop eating if he wishes. )
1824-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There is a class of people whose prayers cannot be rejected in the sight of Allah: the head of the just state, the prayer of the fasting and oppressed until they break their fast." Allah raises the prayer of the oppressed above the cloud on the Day of Judgment, the gates of heaven are opened to him, and Allahu ta'ala says: O oppressed! Even after a while, I will help you behemah) commands. "According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, he said: There is a prayer that is not rejected for every fasting person when he breaks his fast.) Ibn-i Abi Mulayka said. I heard bin Amr bin al-As (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) recite the following prayer when he broke his fast.
1827-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would not go to the Eid al-Fitr (Eid prayer) unless he fed his Companions from the fitr alms. "
1828-) - “... From Burayda bin Husayb (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) would not go out until he ate (something) on the day of Eid al-Fitr, and he would not eat (something) until he returned from the eid prayer on the day of Eid-al-Adha. "
1829-) - "... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He said: If he dies while he has a month's fasting (debt) on him, he will pay for it. Let him feed (meal) to a poor person instead of a day. )
1830-) - “... From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): The woman came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah: Two months of uninterrupted fasting (debt) on my sister’s neck. although he died. said. The Prophet asked: (Tell me. If a debt was found on your sister's neck, would you pay that debt?). The woman said: Yes, I would. The Prophet said: (Then, Allah's right is a right that must be paid first.) "
1831-) - “... From Burayda bin Husayb (radiyallahu anh); He said: The woman came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! My mother died even though she owed fasting on her. Shall I fast for him? she asked. Our Lord; (Yes) he said.
1832-) - “... From Atiyye bin Sufyan (radiyallahu anh); He said: According to what our delegation, who went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about his tribe's acceptance of Islam, told us; The delegation came to him (Madinah) during the month of Ramadan. He set up a tent in Masjid an-Nabawi for the delegation; When the delegation became Muslim, they fasted the rest of the month of Ramadan. "
1833-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “A woman cannot fast any day other than the month of Ramadan without her permission while she is ready. )
1834-) - “... From Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prohibited women from fasting without the permission of their husbands. "
1835-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “When he visits a tribe, he can fast only with their permission. )
1836-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The one who does not fast is in the position of one who is patient, and one who is nafilah fasting. )
1837-) - “... According to what is reported from Sinan bin Senna al-Aslami (radiy-Allâhu anh), one of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: there is a retaliation for his good deeds. )
1838-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: We made i'tikaf together with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) for one year (to search for the Night of Power) for ten nights (together with the daytime) in the middle of Ramadan. The Messenger of Allah (to us, leaving the place of Itikaf on the morning of the twentieth day): I was shown all the signs of the Night of Power. Then it was forgotten. You seek the night of power in the odd nights of the last ten days of Ramadan. ) commanded. "
1840-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) she said: When the last ten days were over, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would revive his night, engage in serious work (in terms of worship) and wake up his family members (for worship). . "
1841-) - “... From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray for ten days every year (in the month of Ramadan). When he died in the year (in the month of Ramadan), he i'tikaf for twenty days and the Qur'an was presented to him once every year (in the month of Ramadan by Gabriel). In the year of his death, it was presented to him twice. "
1842-) - “... From Ubayy bin Ka'b (radiyallahu anh). He said: (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to i'tikaf (every year) during the last ten days of Ramadan. He went on an expedition for one year (in Ramadan). When it came to the next year (in Ramadan), he i'tikaf for twenty days. "
1843-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: When the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) wanted to i'tikaf, he would perform the morning prayer, then go to the place (in the mosque) that he wanted to i'tikaf. (One year) He wanted to i'tikaf for the last ten days of Ramadan. He commanded. A tent was set up for him (inside the Masjid). Then Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) ordered a tent to be brought. A tent was also set up for him. Hafsa (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) also ordered that a tent be brought. A tent was set up for him. When Zeyneb (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) saw the tents of Aisha and Hafsa (radiy-Allâhu anhu), he ordered a tent to be set up. It was built for him. Then, when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw this situation, he said (to his three respected wives): Do you want goodness and piety? And (that year) he did not i'tikaf in Ramadan. He i'tikaf for ten days in Shawwal. "
1844-) ... According to what is reported from Omar bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh): He had one night's i'tikaf debt, which was also due to ignorance (time). He asked the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about this situation, and the Prophet ordered him to fulfill his Itikaf (debt). "
1845-) ... From Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma): He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) used to i'tikaf during the last ten nights of Ramadan. Nafi' said: Abdullah bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) showed me the place in the Masjid where the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) believed. "
1846-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma). He said: When he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was going to i'tikaf, his mat would be thrown behind the pillar of repentance (in the Masjid) or his bed would be put there. "
1847-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) i'tikaf in a Turkish tent (made of felt in the Masjid). There was a piece of mat in the place of the tent door. Abu Said said: The Messenger of Allah took this mat with his hand and put it on one side of the tent. Then he stuck his head out of the tent and addressed the congregation (in the Masjid). "
1848-) ... From Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: (while I'tikaf in the masjid) I used to go in for a need (accident) even though there was a patient in my room, and I would ask about the condition of the patient just by passing him. Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to enter his room only for the sake of qada when they were in Itikaf (together with the household). "
1849-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He follows the funeral and visits the sick.)
1852-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: Once, one of the wives of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) made i'tikaf with him and saw redness and yellowness in his blood (during this i'tikaf on days other than menstruation). Sometimes (due to the shedding of blood) he would put a basin under it. "
1853-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said about mutakif: (or mutakif) imprisons (= hinders) sins, and good deeds are written for him as if he did all good deeds. )
1854-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Umama (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he prays two nights of Eid-al-Fitr and Eid-al-Adha, hoping for his reward from Allah (and only for His sake), his heart will not die on the day that hearts die.)
1855-) - “... From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent Muâz (radiy-Allâhu anh) to Yemen (as governor). (While sending) he said to him: You are going to a people of the People of the Book. Invite them to testify that there is no god but Allah and that I am the Messenger of Allah. If they obey (you) for this invitation, inform them that Allah has made obligatory on them five (times) prayers every day and night. If they obey (you) for this reason, inform them that Allah has made it obligatory for them to pay alms (zakat) on their property. This charity is taken from their rich and given to their poor. If they obey (you) for this reason, avoid the elite of their wealth (don't choose the best quality for zakat). Avoid the curse of the oppressed. Because there is no veil between that curse and Allah. )
1856-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: On the Day of Judgment, the property of anyone who does not pay (subject to zakat) will be put in the shape of a male bald snake to be a necklace around his neck. ) commanded. Then, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) confirmed this for us in the book of Allahu ta'ala: Let those who are stingy with the wealth that Allah has bestowed on him should not think that this stinginess is good for them. On the contrary, it is hard for them. What they were stingy with will be around their necks on the Day of Resurrection. The inheritance of the heavens and the earth belongs to Allah. Allah is aware of what you do. ) Al-i Imran: He recited 180 verses. "
1857-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, he said: Everyone who has sheep, goats and cattle but does not pay their zakat, these goods will be the largest and fattest on the Day of Judgment. They come with their condition and hit the owner with their horns and trample them with their feet. When the end of the animals (who beat and trample on their owner) comes to an end, their heads return to their owners and thus become a blessing to him. This persecution will continue until Allah decides between people.)
1858-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "The camels, which are not given the right to zakat (on the Day of Judgment), come and trample their owner with their soles, while cattle, sheep and goats (who are not given zakat) come and trample their owners with their nails," he said. adorned with horns. The kenz (trade goods, money, gold and silver) (for which zakat is not given) comes in the shape of a bald male snake and will meet its owner on the Day of Judgment. The owner runs away from him twice. Then (again) it appears before its owner. The owner ran away again: What (the event) is between you and us (past) (that you do not leave me) ? he asks. Snake: I am your (non-zakat) kenzine (= property). I am your self, he says. The owner tries to protect himself from the snake with his hand. The snake gnaws at his hand. )
1859-) - “... From Khalid bin Eşlem (radiy-Allâhu anhum), the maula of Omar bin al-Khattab; He said: (One day) Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma) and I went out (out of Medina). An Arab came from behind and said to Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma): Allah; What is the nature of (to accumulate money and property) in the commandment (those who accumulate (= accumulate) gold and silver and do not spend it in the way of Allah..... )? she asked. Ibn 'Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) said to him: Those who hoard gold and silver and do not pay their zakat, there is destruction and torment. Before zakat was made obligatory, the wealth that was accumulated in excess of need was considered kenz (accumulation that causes torment). When the command for the obligation of zakat was sent down, he replied, "Allahu ta'ala made zakat a cleaner of goods," and then he turned around and said: "If I had as much gold as the mountain of Uhud, which I knew the number of, gave zakat and worked for the sake of Allah (Azza wa Jalla), I would not be worried (for this reason). "
1860-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When you give the zakat of your property, you will have paid the (right of) property on it.)
1861-) - “... According to what is reported from Fatimah bint-i Kays (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There is no right other than zakat. )
1862-) - “... Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: I have definitely forgiven you from the zakat of horses and slaves. But give one-fourth of the silver tithe (as zakat). One dirham (give) for every forty dirhams. )
1863-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Ömer and Aisha (radiyallahu anhum); He said: He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to receive half a dinar out of every twenty dinars and more than that, and one dinar (zakat) out of forty dinars. "
1864-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). He said: There is no zakat on the property until one year has passed. )
1865-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh), he is himself. He heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: There is no zakat on dates less than the amount of vesk, less than five okyyas (silver) and less than five camels. )
1866-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is no zakat on anything less than a camel. There is no zakat less than five okiyyes (silver). And there is no zakat on anything less than five wask (dates, grapes, and grains). )
1867-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh): (bin Abdilmuttalib) (radiy-Allâhu anh) asked the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to hasten to give his zakat ahead of time. The Prophet gave him permission in this regard. "
1868-) - “... Abdullah bin Abi Evfâ (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported that he said: When a man brought the zakat of his property to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), the Prophet would pray for his mercy and forgiveness. I brought the zakat of my property before Him. The Prophet: Give mercy and forgiveness to the family of Abu Awfa. ) he prayed. " ..... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: When you give, he said: "O Allah! Make this zakat a means of great reward and it Do not forget to ask for the reward of zakat by saying "do not commit a debt (payable to the owner of the right) without
1871-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu Anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is no zakat on small camels. There is nothing in all four camels. When the number of camels reaches five, his zakat becomes a shaat. Up to nine camels (it is like this.) When the number of camels reaches 10 (from this), his zakat is two shaats up to fourteen, and when the camels are fifteen (from this), his zakat is three shaats. When the camels reach 20, their zakat is four shât. Until the number of camels reaches 24 (this is the rule). In the absence of bint-i mahad, a male ibn-i lebun is given. If one camel becomes more, its zakat becomes one bint-i lebun. Until the number of camels reaches 45 (this is the ruling). Until the number of camels reaches 60 (this is the rule.) If there is one more camel, its zakat will be a penalty. Until the number of camels reaches 75 (this is the rule). Until the number of camels reaches 90 (this is the rule). zakat is two hikka. Until the camels reach 120 (this is the rule.) and one bint-i lebun (zakat) for forty camels. )
1874-) - “... According to what is reported from Cerîr bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The officer (from the property owners) will only return with contentment.
1875-) - “... From Muâz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent me to Yemen (as the manager of zakat and other affairs) and gave me forty cattle and buffaloes each. He ordered me to take one musinna and one tebi' or one tebia (as zakat) out of every thirty. "
1876-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There is one tabl' or one tebia in baccarat (cattle and buffalo) and forty (bakar) one musinna (zakat).)
1878-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Their zakat is taken on the water they water their flocks." )
1879-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The zakat of goats and goats is one shaat up to one hundred and twenty in forty grains. When one is more than two, it is up to two hundred. If there is more than one, the zakat of up to three hundred is three shât. If it becomes more, it becomes zakat for every hundred grains. Collective goods are not distributed and scattered goods are not collected for fear of zakat (increase or decrease). Both Khalids (= those who mix their partners or their property with someone else's property) receive their share of the zakat they give from him. The zakat officer cannot take the old (neither) defective (nor) offspring (such as rams and goats) as zakat. However, the owner of the zakat officer can take the offspring whenever he wishes. )
1880-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A person who acts unjustly is like one who refuses to give zakat. )
1881-) - “...From Rafi bin Hadic (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: A zakat officer who works is like a veteran who works in the way of Allah until he returns home. )
1882-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Unays (radiyallahu anh): One day, he and Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh) negotiated about zakat. Meanwhile, when Umar told him about betraying Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in zakat = whoever betrays a camel or a shaat (sheep or goat) from zakat, on the Day of Judgment the betrayed animal will be brought to the person who betrayed it. Didn't you hear when he commanded? said. The narrator said that Abdullah bin Unays replied: Yes, I heard.
1883-) - “... According to what is reported from Imran bin Husayn Mawla Ata (radiyallahu anhuma): bin al Husayn was sent by Ziyâd bin Abi Sufyan or another amir as an zakat officer, then when he returned from duty, the sender said to him: Where is the goods you collected? ? it was asked. He said: Did you send me to bring goods? He replied, 'We took it from where we used to buy it when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was alive, and left it wherever we left it.' "
1884-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is no zakat on him (neither for his slave nor for his horse.) "
1885-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I gave up zakat on horses and slaves.”
1887-) - “... From Amr bin Shuayb's father's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As (radiy-Allâhu anhum)) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) zakat is legitimate for only five things (from the crops of the land) ) wheat, barley, dates, grapes and millet. "
1888-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “And what is irrigated by springs (like flowing waters) is a tithe (wajib). For those who are irrigated with nadıh (= tool), half of the tithe is (wajib)."
1889-) - “... According to what is reported from Salim's father (Abdullah bin Omar) (radiyallahu anhum): I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: (that is, those who absorb water from the soil with the veins attached to their roots) are also ushr (vacip). Half of the tithe (wajib) is for those who are irrigated by Sevânî (camels carrying water or large buckets). )
1890-) - “... from Muâz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent me to Yemen (to collect zakat and manage other affairs) and told me that one of those watered by rain and watered with ba'l (water absorbing from the soil with veins attached to its roots), ushür, devali (aletter) He ordered me to take half of the tithe. ' Yahya bin Adam said: Ba'l, aseri, azî and trace: It is the one irrigated with rain water. Aseri: It is a crop that grows only with clouds and rain and does not see any water other than rain water. Ba'l de: They are grape vines whose veins connected to their roots go underground and reach water and do not need irrigation for five or six years and rely on not being irrigated. This is the ba'l. When the stream water flows, it is also called Seyl. Seyl that comes one after another is called 'GayT'. "
1891-) - “... From Attab bin Esid (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to send people to the vineyard owners to determine how many raisins would be produced from the fresh grapes on the grape vines. "
1892-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: When he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) conquered Khaybar, he stipulated that the land of Khaybar, as well as gold and silver, should all be placed at the disposal of his Prophets. (In other words, he allowed the local Jews to stay there on this condition.) The Jews of Khaybar told him: We know better the land (to get good crops from the grain). So give us the land. They said, 'Let us cultivate half of its fruit for us and half for you. Ravi said. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave them (the land of Khaybar) in this way. When the time to collect the dates approached, our Prophet sent Abdullah bin Rawaha (radiyallahu anh) to the Jews of Khaybar. Ibn Rawaha estimated the amount of fruit in the date gardens. The people of Medina call this estimation work Hars. Ibn Rawaha said: There are so many and so many dates in this palm grove. The Jews said: O Ibn Rawaha, the amount you estimated was too much for us. Thereupon, Ibn Rawaha said, 'Then, I will accept this amount and I will give you half of this amount. The narrator said: The Jews of Khaybar said: The truth is only your guess, and the sky and the earth can only stand with truth. Then they said: We are willing to pay the amount you said. "
1895-) - “... From Abu Sayyare al-Mutef (radiyallahu anh); He said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): O Messenger of Allah! “I have honey bees,” I said. He said: (Pay usur (that is, one-tenth of its honey) as zakat). Me: Messenger of Allah! “Keep my bees for me,” I said. He also ordered to keep my bees for me. "
1896-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He narrated that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) received a tithe from honey. "
1897-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered the zakat of fitr as one sa of dried dates or one sa of barley. (bin Omar) said: Then the people equaled two muds of wheat. "
1898-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made it obligatory for every Muslim, free or slave, male or female, to give alms of fitr as one sa of barley or one sa of dried dates. "
1899-) - “... From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) made it obligatory to pay the zakat of fitr, as a cleanser from useless words and deeds, and ugly and unmeasured words, and as food for the poor. Now, whoever pays it before the Eid prayer, it is an acceptable zakat. Whoever pays it after the Eid prayer is one of the sadaqahs. "
1900-) - “... From Kays bin Sa'd (bin Ubade) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered us to give the alms of fitr before the zakat (order) was sent down. Then, when the zakat (order) came down, he neither ordered us (with the charity of fitr) nor prevented us (from giving this charity). We give this charity. (Or we used to give this charity again.) '..... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh): He said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) is among us (that is, while he is alive), we will eat the zakat of fitr. We would subtract it as a sa from its article. (The food item extracted was as follows:) One sa of dried dates, one sa of barley, one sa of currant, one sa of raisins. We used to do this all the time until the caliph Muawiya (radiyallahu anh) came to Medina-i Münevvere. Among the things Muawiya said to the people (in Medina) was the following statement: I am two muds (that is, half an hour) of wheat from Damascus, but I think equal to one hour of this food. The people kept his word. Said said: As long as I live, I will continue to issue my fitr charity (as a sa) as I did when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was alive. "
1902-) - “...From Sa'd (al-Karaz) (radiyallahu anh), the muezzin of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); He said: He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered to give the alms of fitr as one sa of dried dates or one sa of barley or one sa of suet (a type of barley resembling wheat). "
1903-) - “...From Al-Ala bin al-Hadrami (radiyallahu anh): It is said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent me to Bahrain or to Hecer (as governor and amil). I used to go (to pay tribute) to the (common) garden between the brothers (there). One of the (brothers) would accept Islam. Now I would get a tithe from a Muslim (brother) and tribute from a polytheist (brother)"
1904-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): He narrated the following from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): )
1905-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The Vesk is sixty sa.”
1908-) - “... From Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), (the Prophet's venerable wife); He said: He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered us to give alms. Thereupon, Abdullah (bin Mas'ud)'s wife, Zaynab (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), said: 'Does it constitute alms for me to give alms to my husband and one of my brother's orphaned sons? How do I give them alimony in any case? she asked. (Ravi) said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He said: (The aforementioned) Zaynab (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) used to do (profitable) business. "The following is stated in Zawaid: This is an authentic document. Except for Abu Dawud, the hadith of Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated by the owners of Kutub-i Sitta is an authentic witness for this hadith.
1909-) - “... According to what is reported from Hisham bin Urve's grandfather (Zubair bin al-Awwam) (radiyallahu anhum), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Surely, it is better for him to go to the mountain, to bring a bundle of wood (which he collected from there) on his back and sell it, and to try to meet his needs with the price of wood, than asking them (whether they give what he will ask from the people) or not.)
1910-) - “... According to what is reported from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), (the maula of the Prophet); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) asked: "And who gives me a guarantee (to have) a trait? I will give him the guarantee of Paradise." I said: 'I am. (I guarantee to have that trait.) ' Our Lord said: (You do not want anything from the people's property). He said: After that, when Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh) was on his mount, his whip would fall from his hand (to the ground), and he would not say to anyone: Present it to me, and finally he would get down and take it. "
1911-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A person who asks people for their wealth in order to increase it will undoubtedly want the scorched fire parts of Hell. Now let it decrease or increase it.)"
1912-) - "... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is not lawful for a wealthy person, nor for a strong and strong person.) "
1913-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The thing that a person who asks for begging, when he has wealth to support his food, will come to him on the Day of Judgment as a wound and bruise on his face." From the Companions: O Messenger of Allah! How much wealth does it give to a person (preventing asking from the public)? he was asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) replied, "Fifty dirhams of silver or its equivalent in gold."
1914-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “It is not lawful for any rich person to receive zakat, except for five people: the employee of zakat, the mujahid in the way of Allah, the rich who buys zakat with their own money, the poor person, the alms given to him as a gift. the rich that he has made, and the one who borrows (in order to get along with the Muslims) (the rich). )
1915-) - “... According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The charity given by a person from his halal earnings, even if it is worth a date, which Allah gives from halal goods. he does not accept any alms other than alms—the Most Gracious (Allah) behemahal receives with his right hand. Then that charity increases in the palm of the Most Merciful until it is bigger than the mountain, and just as one of you meticulously raises a male steed foal or a camel's calf. Rahman greatly increases that charity for its owner. )
1916-) - “... According to what is reported from Adiyy bin Hatim (-i Tâî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There is none of you on the day whose Lord will not talk to him (exam). Without any interpreter between his Lord and his servant (God will talk to his servant.) In this case, the servant looks in front of him. In front of him is the fire of Hell. He looks to his right and sees nothing but what he has sent before him. He looks to his left and sees nothing but what he has sent. (My Companions!) Now, let those of you who are able to protect from fire, even with half of a single date, do it. ) "
1917-) - “... According to what is reported from Salman bin 'Amr ed-Dabba (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The charity given to a relative (needy) is two (no). It is charity and family. )
1918-) - “... From Alkama bin Kays (radiyallahu anh): He said: I was with Abdullah bin Mes'ud (radiyallahu anh) in Minâ. Osman (bin Affan) (radiyallahu anh) (once) had a private conversation with him. I also sat near Abdullah. Osman said to her: Do you have a desire for me to marry you to a young girl who will remind you of some of your (joy and strength) that passed (in your youth)? said. When Abdullah saw that Osman had nothing to do but this (question), he gestured to me (to reach them). I was too. (At that time) Abdullah was saying (to him): If you say this (who encourages marriage), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Young people, whoever among you can afford to marry should get married! Because marriage is extremely forbidden by the eye (haram). Her chastity is equally protective. Whoever cannot afford (the cost of marriage) should fast (in vain). For, no doubt, fasting is a strong breaker for lust.)
1919-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: My sunnah is (the way I take). Whoever does not act in this way of me (turns away from it), is not from me. And get married. Because I am proud of your multitude (other) nations on the Day of Judgment. Whoever has a marriage allowance should get married. Whoever cannot find (this expense) should fast (a voluntary). For, no doubt, fasting is lustful for its owner. )
1920-) ... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: said: We have not seen or seen anything that increases love as much as marriage.)
1921-) - “... From Sa'd (bin Abi Vakkas) (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade Osman bin Maz'un (radiyallahu anh) from tabettül (= refraining from getting married). If he had let him (we go further) we would have been castrated. "
1922-) - “... From Samura (bin Jundub) (radiyallahu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) prohibited tebettül (not getting married). Zayd bin Ahzam also added:
1923-) - “... From Muaviye (bin Hayde) (radiyallahu anh), the father of the judge; The man said to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): What is the right of a woman over her husband? she asked. The Prophet: It is to feed him (too) when he eats, and to clothe him (too) when he gets clothes. Let him not beat (his wife's) face, despise (him) and let him not leave (her) except inside the house (= sleeping in the same bed). )
1924-) ... According to what is reported from Sulayman bin Amr bin al-Ahvas (radiyallahu anhuma), he said: According to what Amr told me, he was with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) on the Farewell pilgrimage and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) (in his famous farewell sermon) After praising and praising Allah, he preached and advised (ez sentence): My Companions!) I advise you to be nice to your women. (Heed this advice). For they are (like) captives with you (in devotion to you). You don't have anything about them except these (known sexual relations. You have these things about them, however when they have obvious ugly and excessive faults:) If they commit (such ugly and excessive acts), leave their beds and treat them in a non-tormenting way. (Forgive the past mistakes) If they obey you after that, do not resort to retaliation and torment them. (Forgive the past mistakes) Surely you have (some) rights from your wives. You have (some) rights over your wives. Let them not let anyone you dislike into your homes and talk to them, and let no one you dislike enter your home. Know that: The right of your wives is that you treat them well in dressing and feeding them.)
1927-) - “... From Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: I heard Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: Any (believing) woman who dies while she is pleased with him will enter Paradise. )
1928-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The world is only a temporary place of enjoyment. There is no worldly commodity (= useful thing) more virtuous (superior) than a righteous woman.)
1929-) - “... From Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh) (Mawl of the Prophet); He said: And when the revelation about gold (hoarding) comes down (verses 34 and 39 of the divine command at-Tawba of the stern threat). they said. Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: I will inform you about this (by asking) and he immediately made his riding camel run. While I was following him, he caught up with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlallah! Which item can we get? she asked. Thereupon, the Prophet said: "Any of you who wish to acquire should acquire a heart that is grateful, a tongue that makes dhikr and a believing wife who helps him in the hereafter." "
1930-) - “... According to what was narrated from Abu Usama (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “After fearing Allah (your virtue), there is nothing better than a righteous wife. could not have achieved. (For) he obeys (whatever) he orders him. If he looks at her, he refreshes himself. If he takes an oath on his wife (to do or not to do something), his wife (by obeying him) fulfills his oath. If he is not with his wife, his wife acts honestly and sincerely about her own honor and (protecting) her property. )
1931-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "One can marry for four (characteristics): For his property, for his lineage, for his beauty and for his piety. (O believer you among them) try to seize the pious. (If you don't do as I say) you will fall into poverty,) "
1932-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Do not marry just for their beauty. Because it is hoped that their beauty (because of boasting and arrogance) will endanger them. And do not marry them (just) for their wealth. Because it is hoped that wealth will make them mislead (and lead them into sins and evil). But marry them for their piety. Undoubtedly, a pious concubine with a part of her nose cut off, a pierced ear and a black skin is better (in terms of marrying a non-religious free woman).
1933-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) I married a woman while he was alive. Then I met the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). They said: (Are you married, O Jabir?) I replied: (I got married). He said: -(Is it a virgin (girl) or a widow? (You got it.) I replied: Widowed (bought). I had sisters. I said, I was afraid that a (young) girl would come between me and my sisters. He said: (When that's the point, it's better to be a widow.)
1934-) - “... According to what Abdurrahman bin Salim bin Ukbe bin Uveym bin Said al-Ansari narrated from his father and from his grandfather (Uveym bin Saida) (radiyallahu anhum): (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: He said: (See marrying virgins, because (compared to widows) their mouths are sweeter, their wombs are more childbearing, and they are more content with the little ones.)
1935-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: And whoever wants to meet Allah purified, should marry free women. ) '..... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Marry a woman who gives birth to a child. For I am proud of your multitude (on the Day of Judgment). )
1937-) - “... According to what is reported from Muhammad bin Maslama (bin Salama) (radiyallahu anh), he said: I wanted to marry a woman. Now I've started working on spying on him. Finally, I looked at him among a date tree that belonged to him, he said, and then it was said to him: Can you do this even though you are the Companion of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He replied: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "When ta'ala wants to marry a woman to a man's heart, there is no harm in looking at that woman. )
1938-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); Al-Mughira bin Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh) wanted to marry a woman. Thereupon, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to her: Look at that woman. Because looking after you (when you get married) is more suitable for the continuation of friendship and love between you. ) commanded. After al-Mughira did what was commanded, he married that woman. Later, al-Mughira told about the alliance and agreement (definitive power satisfaction) between him and his wife. "
1939-) - “... From Al-Mughira bin Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh); He said: I went to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and told him about a woman I wanted to marry. He said: Look at that woman. Because looking after you (when you get married) is more suitable for the continuation of friendship and love between you. ) Thereupon, I went to a woman from Ansar (radiyallahu anhuma) and asked her from her father and mother. And I informed them of the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) command (about my seeing the girl). It seems to me that the girl's father and mother did not like her offer to see the girl. Al-Mughira (radiyallahu anh) said: He heard the conversation while the girl was in her veil and addressed me: If the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered you to look (me), look (me). “Otherwise, I swear by God that I want you not to look at me,” he said. It seems to me that the girl made me wait for me to look at her. Al-Mughira (radiyallahu anh) said: Then I looked at him and married him. The narrator said: After (al-Mughira married this girl), he told about the alliance and agreement (definitive power satisfaction) between them. "
1940-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Let him not make a wish for a woman (to marry) because his brother (religion) turns out to be willing (to get married). )
1941-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He should not want to marry a woman because his brother-in-law is willing to marry. ) "
1942-) - “... From Fatima bint-i Kays (al-Kureşiyye) (radiyallahu anha); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to me: (Inform me when you leave your iddat (which continues due to divorce). After her iddah had ended, Fatima informed him. Then Muawiya (bin Abi Sufyan), Abu'l-Cehm bin Suhayr and Usama bin Zayd (radiyallahu anhum) came out willing to marry Fatima. When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (to Fatima about the aforementioned bidders): (she) is a poor man who has no property. As for Abu'l-Cehme (He, ) he is a man who beats women a lot. And yet, he said (it is good that you marry Usama). Thereupon, Fatima: to indicate that she did not like it) pointed with her hand and said: Usama, Usama'. (On Fatima's disapproval of marrying Usama) Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), obedience to Fatima and obedience to her Messenger is good for you. ) commanded. Fatima said: After that, I married Usama and I was happy with him. (Or my situation was envied by women.)
1944-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A woman cannot be married unless her express order is taken. A virgin is also not married unless her permission is obtained, and her permission is her silence. )
1945-) - “... According to what is reported from Adi (bin Amire) al-Kindi (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, The virgin's consent is her silence. )
1947-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Burayda's father, Burayda (bin al-Husayb) (radiyallahu anhuma), a girl came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: He made me marry his brother's son in order to lift his scorn with me, he complained. (Burayde) said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) gave the girl the job of accepting or rejecting the marriage. Then the girl: I accepted my father's job. But I wanted women to know that fathers do not have the right to do this," she said. "From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): A young girl came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and told the Prophet (pbuh) that her father had married her even though she did not like it. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) for the acceptance or rejection of the marriage made)
1950-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: When I was a girl of six years old, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) married me. (After three years) we migrated to Madinah. We went down to the mansion of the sons of al-Harith bin al-Hazrec. Then I got malaria. Because of this, my hair fell out. (After getting over this disease) my hair has become thicker. It stretched so much that it fell on my shoulders. (One day) While I was playing on the swing with my girlfriends, my mother Umm Ruman came to me and called me. So I came to my mother. I didn't know what my mother wanted to do. My mother held my hand. (We walked quickly towards the house) Finally, he stopped me in front of the door of our house. I was often panting from exhaustion. He stood there until my breathing subsided, then my mother took some water and rubbed my face and head with it, and then put me in the house. I suddenly came across a group of women from the Ansar in a room of the house. These are (me) ; And they said on blessings and on the best of fortune (you have met or may you meet). My mother handed me over to these. These too have (washed my head and) straightened and adorned my costume. Nothing bothered me (as I couldn't remember anything until that moment). However, when I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) unaware of the morning, I got bored. After a while the women handed me over to Him. I was a nine-year-old girl that day. "
1951-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mesud) (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (radiy-Allâhu anh) was a seven-year-old girl, when the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) married her. And when Aisha was nine years old, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) had intercourse with her. And when Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) was 18 years old, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) died. "
1952-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhu): when bin Maz'un (radiyallahu anh) passed away, he left an (orphan) daughter behind. Ibn Umar: My uncle, Kudame (bin Maz'un) (radiyallahu anh), who was his uncle, married me without consulting him. This (nikah) affair happened after the death of the girl's father. The girl did not like her uncle's marriage ceremony and wanted her to marry al-Muğîre bin Shu'ba (radiy-Allâhu anh). After she reached the age of puberty, her uncle married her to al-Mughira (radiyallahu anh). "
1953-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiyallahu anha): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He said: If a woman's guardian did not allow her marriage to be held, her marriage is invalid, her marriage is invalid, her marriage is invalid. If her husband has sexual contact with her after (the marriage without the permission of the parents), he has to pay the mahr (due to be paid) for this contact. If the guardians disagree (in the matter of marriage to such an extent that it prevents the marriage of the woman), the sultan is now the guardian of the one who does not have any guardians.)
1954-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha and Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: No marriage can take place without permission. ) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) has the following addition in the merfu hadith. (The Sultan is the guardian of those who have no guardians.)
1955-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "No marriage can take place without permission."
1956-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He cannot marry a woman. A woman cannot marry her own soul. Because, without a doubt, a fornicator is a woman who marries her own soul. )
1957-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade shighar (marriage by way of). Shigar is when a man says to a man: or you marry your daughter or sister to me, so that I may marry my sister to you. There is no mahr among them. "
1958-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade shigâr (marriage as it is). "
1959-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There is no shigar (marriage in the form of it). )
1960-) - “... From Abu Salama (bin Abdirrahman bin Awf) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said to Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): How much was the dowry of the wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)? I asked. Aisha: Her mahr for her wives was 12 okiyyes and a joy. Do you know what a nexus is? It is half okiyye. He (twelve and a half okiyya) is also five hundred dirhams (silver), he replied. "
1961-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu'l-Acfâ as-Sülemî (radiy-Allâhu anh), Omar bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: ) do not go excessively. Because if there was something to be praised in the world (life) or taqwa in the sight of Allah, Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would have the most right and merit in this. (However) He did not make any woman's dowry more than twelve okiyyas from his (respected) wives, and no woman's dowry from His daughters was made more than twelve okiyyas. The man really considers his wife's dowry so heavy that he eventually becomes enmity with (against) his wife and says: Alaku'l-Kırba (= whip rope) or araku'l-Kırba (= whip sweat) for you (to marry) ) I have come under the burden of everything, up to what point, he says. ..... Abdullah bin Amir bin Rebia's baha (Amir bin Rebia) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) is narrated: A man from Fezâre (tribe) had his wedding ceremony on a pair of shoes (as mahr). Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) considered her (spoiled) marriage to be permissible (valid). "
1963-) - “... From Sahl bin Sa'd (radiyallahu anh); He said: A woman came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (with an offer to marry). The Prophet asked: Who wants to marry this woman? A little later a man said: I am. On top of that, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to the man: Give the woman (something as mahr), even if it is an iron ring. Then the man said to our Lord (I don't even have an iron ring), (I couldn't find anything). The Prophet said to the man: (I delivered you with him on the basis of his memorization from the Qur'an (the condition of teaching the times to women).
1964-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) married Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) (as mahr) on household items worth 50 dirhams (silver). "
1965-) - “... According to what Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiy-Allâhu anh) is reported to have, he said to him: (a mahr in the marriage contract) when the man married a woman, then the man did not have intercourse with her (= sexual intercourse with the woman). He died before he was appointed, and his question was asked. Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) said: There is mahr (right to misil), a woman has an inheritance (right) from her (husband). And there is iddah on women, he said. Ma'kil bin Sinan al-Ashcaî (radiy-Allâhu anh) said immediately after (this fatwa of Abdullah) that I witnessed that Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) decreed exactly this way about bint-i Vasik (radiy-Allâhu anhâ). ...
1967-) - “... from Abdullah bin Mes'ud (radiyallahu anh); (Either) he said: concise words that include goodness and the results of every good (the most literary speeches about him), or he said: The beginnings of every good (the most literary) words (by Allah) to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) given. He also taught us the tashahhud (read at the end of the prayer) and the sermon (the beginning of the pilgrimage) (similar to the marriage contract). The tashahhud of the prayer is the contract and the like) and the sermon of the pilgrimage is this. - You add these three verses from Allah's book to the end of your (this) sermon:
1968-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (at the beginning of the sermon:) . . . . . . he commanded. "
1969-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Every important thing (blessings) that does not begin with (praise) is cut off (or something missing). )
1970-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Announce your marriage (to the people) and play the tambourine for it. ) "
1971-) - “... According to what is reported from Muhammad bin Hatib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The difference between (joining) and haram (joining) is to play the tambourine and announce it in marriage. )
1972-) - “... From Abu'l-Huseyn (radiyallahu anh) named Khalid al-Madeni; He said: We were in Medina (-i Münevvere) one day of Ashura. The concubines played the tambourine and sang with a tune. (Because we find this situation strange) We went to er-Rubeyyi' bint-i Muavviz (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) and told him the situation of the concubines. He said to us: At mid-morning when I was a bride, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) came to my wedding ceremony and entered my room. At that time, two girls were singing to the accompaniment of the tambourine and commemorating the legends of my fathers who were martyred in the Battle of Badr. Among the words these girls said, they were saying: There is a Prophet among us who knows what will happen tomorrow. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to those present): When it comes to the word, do not say it. No one knows what will happen tomorrow except Allah. ) commanded. "
1973-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); She said: Once, two girls from the Ansar (accompanied by a tambourine) were reciting the poems that the Ansar sang about each other in the Battle of Buâs, with a loud tune and loudly beside me (My father) Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) entered my room. Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said: And these two girls were not singers. Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh): What is the situation? he scolded me. This work was on the day of the feast of Fitr. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), who was lying on his bed in my room and turned his blessed face, then turned to (Abu Bakr) (radiy-Allâhu anh) and said: Ebâ Bakr! (Do not touch them.) Surely, every nation has a feast. This is also our holiday.) "
1974-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) once passed through some parts of Medina (i Münevvere) and suddenly met a few girls. The girls play the tambourine, recite poems to the tune and. We are the daughters of the sons of Neccar. What a good neighbor Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was, they said. Thereupon, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to those girls: He knows that I really love you too. ) commanded. "
1975-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (radiyallahu anha) married a girl who was close to a man from the Ansar. (After the bride was taken away), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) came and said (to those present): (Did you send the young girl (to the groom's house)?' The Companions said: Yes. Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: No. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Undoubtedly, Ansar is a people with ghazal (custom) among them. I wish they said: . . . . - We have come to you, we have come to you. You should have sent a girl with your bride to say, "May Allah give us and you a long life."
1976-) - “... From Mujahid (radiyallahu anh); He said: I was with (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma). He heard the sound of a drum. Thereupon, he put two fingers (tips) in his ears and walked away. He even did it three times. Then he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did this. "
1977-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha), one of the wives of the Prophet, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) entered her during the siege. At that time (Ummu Salama's brother Abdullah bin Abi Umayya (radiy-Allâhu anh) and his slave Muhannes were there.) Our master heard Muhanna say to Abdullah bin Abi Umayya (radiy-Allâhu anh) = If God favors the conquest of Taif tomorrow, I will do that to you. I will show you a (young) woman (i.e., I will catch you) who will meet (his fat belly) four bent over and turn back with eight bents. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Believers!) drive this man out of your homes. ) commanded. "From Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) cursed the woman who (deliberately) likened herself to men and the man who (deliberately) made her look like women.” “….. (Abdullah) bin Abbas ( from radiyallahu anhuma); He said: 'He cursed the men who (deliberately) likened themselves to women, and the women who (deliberately) likened themselves to men, from men. "
1980-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): He said: When the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) prayed for congratulating (or their harmony and arrangement) he used to say: Blessings for you. May His blessings be upon you and may He bring you two together in goodness. ) ..... According to what is reported from Akik bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh): He married a woman from the Banu Jusem tribe (in Basra). Thereupon the people wished for harmony and the boys for him. Himself to the public: Don't say that. However, as Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, he said, “Give them blessings and your blessings be upon them. )
1982-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (one day) saw the trace of sufra (fragrance) on Abdurrahman bin Awf (radiy-Allâhu anh) and asked him: (What is this (smell)?) or (What is it?) he said. Thereupon, Abdurrahman bin Awf said: O Messenger of Allah! He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) replied, “I married a woman (as mahr) on gold, weighing one nawat (= seeds). Thereupon, the Prophet (him) said: (Give my guardian (feast) even with a sheep (slaughter).) "
1983-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: I have never seen Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) feast for any of his wives as much as he gave a feast for Zaynab (bint-i Jahsh) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ). Because Zayneb (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) gave a feast (slaughtered) to the guardian of a sheep. "
1984-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (his wife) gave a feast to the saint with kavud and dried dates for Safiyya bint-i Huyey (radiy-Allâhu anhâ). "
1985-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: I was at the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) feast for a saint. There was neither meat nor bread at that feast.
1986-) - “... (From the wives of our Master) Aisha and Umm Salama (Hind bint-i Abi Umeyye) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); They said: At the wedding of bin Abi Talib and the Prophet's daughter Fatima (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us to prepare Fatima's wedding dress and take her to Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh)'s room. Thereupon, we went to Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh)'s room and spread the soft earth (brought from Batha) into the room. Then we stuffed two pillows with the fiber of the palm bark, which we knitted with our hands. Afterwards, we made our parents eat dried dates and raisins as a feast, and drink a good amount of water. Then we brought a piece of wood on which to throw clothes and hang a water bowl and put it on one side of the room. We have not seen a more beautiful wedding than that of Fatima (radiyallahu anha). "
1987-) - “... From Sahl bin Sa'd es-Saidi (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: Usayd es-Saidi (radiyallahu anh) invited the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) to his wedding. The bride (in the business of preparing dinner for the guardian) was serving them. Bride: Sehl! Do you know what I made the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) drink? After he said: I soaked a few dried dates (in a vessel called Teve) overnight. In the morning, he said, I strained the dates and made him drink the juice of it. "
1988-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: The worst kind of food is the saint's dinner, where the rich are invited and the poor are abandoned (this is the custom). Whoever does not respond (to the invitation to the feast of the guardian) will undoubtedly have rebelled against Allah and His Messenger. "
1989-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When someone is invited to a wedding dinner, let him accept the invitation."
1990-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: His food is right on the first day and legitimate on the second day. The third day is hypocrisy and showing off. )
1991-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas (bin Malik) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There are three nights (right of residence) for a widow (last marriage) and seven nights for a virgin girl. )
1992-) - “... from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha); He said: When (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) married Umm Salama (himself), he lived with her for three nights (in a row) and said to her (to point out that the reason why he kept his residence time short was that he had to stay with his other wives in turn). : There is nothing insignificant about you next to the people. If you wish, I will complete (my residence) for you to seven nights. If I complete seven nights for you, I will reside with each of my (other) wives for seven nights. )
1993-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When he has a woman, a servant (=slave or concubine) or an animal, let him hold the front of her head and say: my god! I certainly ask you for the good of this and the best (characteristics) of your creation. I seek refuge in You from the evil of this and the evil of the (characteristics and qualities) of its creation.)
1994-) - “... According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When a person wants to approach his wife (for sexual intercourse): “(Bismillah) Allah If he says, "My dear! Keep the devil away from me (and my wife) and keep the devil away from the offspring that you will give us (from the offspring)"
1995-) - “... According to what is reported from Behz bin Hakim's grandfather (Muaviye bin Hayda) (radiyallahu anhum), he said: O Messenger of Allah! Which parts of our private parts do we cover (we should cover) and which parts do we leave uncovered (we may not)? I asked. (to me): (Hide your private parts from everyone except your wife or concubine!). Me: O Messenger of Allah! I said, If the people were among themselves (mixed and in one place), (what is the ruling regarding private life?), inform me about it. The Prophet (me) said: (If you can afford not to show your private parts to anyone, never show your private parts!). Me: O Messenger of Allah! What if one of us (alone) ends up in an empty place? I asked (what is the provision). He said: (It is more wâjib to shy away from Allah than people.)
1996-) - “... According to what is reported from Utbe bin Abd al-Sulemi (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When someone wants to get close to his wife (to have sexual relations), he should cover himself (with his wife) and not undress like the nakedness of wild donkeys." )
1997-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: I never looked at the person of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) or did not see this place. Abu Bakr said: According to what Abu Naim said, the narrator who narrated this hadith from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) is the female maula of Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ). "
1998-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Allah will not look at a man who has intercourse with his wife."
1999-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyma bin Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) : Three times (in a row) (Indeed, Allah does not stop telling the truth.) He said(after) : (Make He said, 'Do not reach women in their names). "
2000-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The Jews used to say that if a man reaches the genital organ of a woman from the breech side of the woman (born from this union), the child's eye will squint. Thereupon, Allah Subhanahu said: "Your women are a field of crops for you. Now you can reach this plantation (the way of the womb of the woman) however you want." He revealed the verse of Baccarat: 223. "
2001-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: The man asked Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) the verdict of the dismissal. Thereupon, the Prophet said: Do you impeach? There is no harm in doing this. Because every living thing that Allahu ta'ala has ordained to be (in eternity) will be unbelievable. ) commanded. "
2002-) - “... From Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: While (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was alive and the Qur'an (verses) was being sent down, we used to do azil (work). "
2003-) - “... From Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade her to be dismissed (by her husband) without her permission.
2004-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The marriage is not done either on his aunt or on his aunt. )
2005-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) that it was forbidden for a woman to marry her aunt and another woman with her aunt. "
2006-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Musa (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The marriage is not done either on his aunt or on his aunt.)"
2007-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: Rifaa al-Kurazi's wife (Temima al-Kuraziyya) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “O Messenger of Allah! Rifaa divorced me and he definitely divorced me (with three talaqs). Then I married Kurazi Abdurrahman bin ez-Zabir. But Abdurrahman's manhood is like a fringe of a dress (loose), he said (he can't do his sexual intercourse). Upon his words, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) smiled and then said: "Do you want to go back to Rifaa? Unless you taste your other husband's honey, this cannot happen unless he tastes your honey." "
2008-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); To the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): man divorces his wife. Then another man marries that woman, and she divorces him before they get married. Can a woman return to her first husband? (Can she marry him again?) was asked. (Thereupon, the Messenger of God said: (She cannot return to her first husband) unless her second husband tastes her honey.) "
2009-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) cursed the hullee (husband) and the one who was hulled for him (husband). "
2010-) - “... From Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) cursed the hullee (husband) and the one who was hulled for him (husband). "
2011-) - “... According to what is reported from Ukbe bin Amir (al-Juheni) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "O my Companions! Companions: Report, O Messenger of Allah! they said. Rasûl-i Ekrem said: (He is a hullee (husband). May Allah curse the hullee (husband) and the one who was given hulle for him (husband).) "
2012-) - “... According to what was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Those who are forbidden (marriage) because of (lineage) are also forbidden because of milk, )
2013-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: "Hazrat Ali (radiyallahu anh) made an offer to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) to marry the daughter of Hamza (radiyallahu anh), son of Abdul Muttalib, once. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: His daughter is the daughter of my foster sister. Undoubtedly, those who are haram due to ancestry (marriage) are also haram due to milk. )
2014-) - “... Umm Habiba (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) (one of the mothers of the believers) narrated that she herself said to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): O Messenger of Allah! “Marry my sister Azze,” he said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him: "Would you like this (not being jealous)?" He: Yes. (I wish) O Messenger of Allah! Because for you I am not a partner and a coward, and I am not alone. She said that regarding the goodness and honor of being a wife to herself, I would like my sister to be a partner with me more than my partners. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Know well that your sister is not halal for me.” He said: Well, we say that you want to marry Dürra, daughter of Abu Salama. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah said: (My wife) Umm Salama's daughter (?)? he asked. Umm Habib said: Yes. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (Even if Umm Salama's daughter (Dürra) had not been my stepdaughter under my protection and upbringing, her marriage would not have been lawful for me. Because she is my foster sister's daughter. Suwayba (a woman named) and her father (= Abu Salama). "...
2016-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm al-Fadl (Lubabe bint al-Haris) (radiyallahu anh), she said that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: sucking (marriage) is forbidden. )
2017-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is not forbidden to suck milk once or twice (marriage). ) ..... From Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: It is forbidden to suck milk (marriage) ten or five times, which is definitely known. "His command was in the Qur'an sent down by Allah. Then it was abrogated."
2019-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: (The wife of Abu Huzeyfe) Sahle bint Suhayl (radiy-Allâhu anhum) came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! He said, "I see serious displeasure on (my husband) Abu Huzayfa (bin Utbe)'s face because of (our adopted) Salim's coming in." Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to Sahle): (You breastfeed Salim). Sehle: How can I breastfeed him when he is a grown man? said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) smiled and said: "I certainly know that he is an adult man." Sahle (radiy-Allâhu anh) also came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) after he had done (going and doing this job); She said, "I did not see any displeasure on the face of (my husband) Abu Huzayfa (radiy-Allâhu anh)" after (we nursed Salim). Salim (before suckling his milk) had participated in the Battle of Badr. "
2020-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: The verse of stoning and the verse of breastfeeding an adult ten times (forbidden of marrying because of it) were revealed, and these verses were (written) on a leaf under my throne. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed away and we were busy with his death, a sheep (or goat) kept in the house entered the room and ate that leaf. "
2021-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiyallahu anha): Once a man was sitting in Aisha's room, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) entered and asked: (Who is this?). Aisha replied: This is my (milk) brother. Our Lord said to Aise: (Be careful whether the men you take to your rooms (weaning) will be considered your privacy. (Because suckling milk (which causes privacy) is only for (eliminate) hunger.)
2022-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Zübeyir (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Milk does not necessitate a marriage ceremony other than milk that (fills) separates them from each other.”
2023-) - “... From Zaynab bint Abi Salama (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: It is similar to the way Abu Huzayfa's maula Salim (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) sucked the milk of Sahle (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) when all his wives were in opposition to Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha). and a man from entering their rooms and said: (to Aisha) What do we know? When Salim was at puberty, they sucked Sehle's milk and said, "We hope it is a special license for Salim to enter her room." "
2025-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: My uncle came and asked permission to enter my room. I refused to let him. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to me: (Let your (milk) uncle come in with you). I said: Only the woman breastfed me and the man did not breastfeed me. The Prophet said: (Surely he is your (milk) uncle. For this reason, let him come to you.) "
2026-) - “... From (Feyruz) ed-Deylemî (radiy-Allâhu anh); I came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) when the two sisters I married in his time were under my marriage (I accepted Islam), then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (to me): Divorce one of them when you return. "
2027-) - “... From Fairuz ed-Deylemî (radiyallahu anh); He said: He came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! He said, "I became a Muslim while I had two sisters under my marriage." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told me: divorce someone you want. ) "
2028-) - “... From Kays bin al-Harith (radiyallahu anh); He said: I became a Muslim when there were eight women under him. Then I came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and explained this situation to them. Thereupon they said: Choose four of them. )
2029-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhu): He said: bin Salama (radiyallahu anh) became a Muslim even though he had ten women under his marriage. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to him: Take four of them. "
2031-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The mahr, gift and grant (given) before the contract is for the woman. And what is (given) after the marriage contract (property) belongs to whom it was given or given as a gift. The most appropriate occasion to be presented to the man is his daughter or sister.)
2032-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He has a concubine and teaches her well (without hurting her); If he then frees her and marries her, she will gain two rewards. If a person from the People of the Book believes in his prophet and Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he will have two rewards. If any slave under the property of another person does the right of Allahu ta'ala and the rights of his masters, he has two rewards. ) Salih said: (My Shaykh) Sha'bi said: I gave you this hadith without anything (return or cost). Undoubtedly, the person who has a mount gets on it for the sake of an issue in this situation and goes as far as Medina-i Münevvere. "
2033-) ... from Enes (radiyallahu anh); He said: Safiyya (binti Huyey) (radiyallahu anha), who was taken prisoner in his war; She became the (concubine) of Dihye al-Kelbiyye (radiyallahu anh). After that, she became the (concubine) of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). Thereupon, the Prophet married him and made it a mahr for him to free him. Hammâd said: (Râvi) Abdü'l-Aziz, to the narrator Sâbit: O Ebâ Muhammed! Did you ask Enes what the Prophet bestowed on Safiyya? said. Fixed: The Prophet said that (freeing) Safiyya's soul was doomed for her. "
2034-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) freed Safiyya (binti Huyey) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) and married him, making it a mahr to free him. "
2035-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When a slave performs his marriage without his permission, he is in danger of fornication. )
2036-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Any slave who marries without his permission is in danger of adultery. )
2037-) - “... From Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) undoubtedly forbade women to marry in mut'a on the day of Khaybar and to eat the meat of people of donkeys. "
2038-) - “... from Sabre (bin Ma'bed) (radiyallahu anh); He said: We went on a farewell pilgrimage together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Then the Companions said: O Messenger of Allah! They said that being single (staying away from women) was really tough for us. Our Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: You can marry these women (who do not prevent their marriage) by means of mut'a. So we went to them. They told us that they would agree to marry us only if we put a certain amount of time between them. Thereupon, the Companions explained this situation to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): set a certain time between you. ) commanded. Then me and an uncle's son went out. My uncle's son had a cardigan with him (as property suitable for being a mahr). I also had a cardigan with me. His sweater was better than mine. I was younger than him too. Finally, we came to a woman. (And we proposed. ) The woman (preferring to marry me) said: A cardigan is like another cardigan. Thereupon, I married him (by giving my cardigan a mahr). And that night I stood next to him. I went the next day. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood between the door of the Kaaba and its rukn and said: People! I really gave you permission to marry by mut'a. Be aware that: Surely, Allahu ta'ala has forbidden this until the Day of Judgment. Now, if anyone has any of the women he married by mut'a, let him go (release) immediately, and do not take (back) anything from what you have given them as mahr. )
2039-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: When Umar bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh) became the caliph, he addressed the people and said: He gave us three days (or three times) leave for the mut'a marriage of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). Then he made it haram. I swear by Allah's name that I will never stone any man I know who had mut'a quarreled with a woman while married, unless I bring four witnesses who will testify that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made mut'a marriage lawful after he made it unlawful. "
2040-) - “... From Yazid bin al-Asamm (radiyallahu anh): He said: Maymuna bint al-Harith (radiyallahu anha) told me that Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) married him while he was not in ihram. (continuing his speech) and Meymuna said that she was my aunt and (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ). "
2041-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) married (Maymuna) while he was in ihram. "
2042-) - “... According to what is narrated from Osman bin Affan (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "A man who is present cannot marry, marry (anyone else) or propose to marry."
2043-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: And when a man whose piety you are pleased with comes to you (to marry a girl who is close to you) ( daughter) marry him. If you do not do (this), there will be strife and great corruption on earth. ) "
2044-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "See to marry the best one, and ask for the daughters of your scumbags (marry the women of your peers).
2046-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: When he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) would go on a journey, he would draw lots among his women (and he would take the winner of the lot with him). He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to divide (his nights) among his wives and did (dividing) with complete justice. Then he would say: This is the justice that I can afford. Do not blame me for your power and my power (difference of heart love). )
2049-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (once) Safiyya binti-Huyeyy (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) was enraged because of something. Then Safiyya said: Aisha! Would you try to please the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) from me, so that (this) day is for you? said. Aisha said: Then she took a headscarf dyed with saffron and sprinkled water on it to spread the fragrance of the dye. Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Aisha! Stay away from me. Because today is not your day.) Thereupon, Aisha said: Allah is merciful, she gives to whomever she wishes, and she explained the situation (between her and Safiyya) to her. The Prophet was also pleased with Safiyya.
2050-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: The man had a wife with whom he was a long-time companion. He also had children with this woman. The man wanted to divorce this woman and marry another woman. The woman consented to her husband to stay (and marry another woman) without setting aside a day for her. The verse about this man (and peace is good) was revealed. "
2051-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Rühm (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Being an intermediary between two people for their business is one of the most virtuous mediations. )
2052-) - “... Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ)'onn said: The day) Usâme (radiy-Allâhu anh) slipped and fell on the threshold of the door and injured his face. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said to me: Wipe your blood. (But to my disgust) I did not like to wipe his blood. Thereupon, the Prophet began to suck his (wound) blood and throw it from his face. Then he said: If Usama had been a girl, I would have dressed him (beautifully) in order to marry her off. )
2053-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The best of you is the one who is best to his family. And I am the best of you to my family) ( According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The best of you are those who are best to their wives. )
2055-) - “... From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) competed with me in a running race and I passed him. "
2056-) - “...From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had just married Safiyya bint Huyey (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) when he came to Medina-i Münevvere (returning from the Battle of Khaybar) The women of Kiram came (to me) and talked about Safiyya. Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said that I went (to see her) wearing an unrecognizable dress and covering my face. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) looked into my (open) eye and recognized me. Aisha said: Then I immediately went back and walked quickly. The Messenger of God (coming after me) caught up with me and embraced me. Then he asked (me) (How did you see her (Safiyya)?). Aisha said, I told her: Let go (me). “A Jewish woman among Jewish women,” I said. "
2057-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: (bint-i Jahsh) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) I did not know (that my Kumas were angry) until he entered my room without permission and angry. After (Zeyneb) entered my room, he said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) (who was in my room): O Messenger of Allah! When Abu Bakr's daughter turns her arms around for you, is it enough for you? After he said that, he turned towards me (he kept shouting against me.) I (by not answering him) gave up on him. Finally, when the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to me): (Keep him and defend yourself), I turned to him. Finally he couldn't answer me and I saw him with his saliva dried in his mouth. I saw the blessed face of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) smiling. "
2058-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: I used to play with dolls when I was with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) (that is, when I was married to him). Our Lord would send my (girlfriend) friends to me, we would play with my friends. "
2059-) - “... From Abdullah bin Zam (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) addressed (his Companions). Then, after talking about women and advising men about them (doing good), he said: Until when will some of you beat their wives with a stick (that is, they will continue this custom) as if they were beating them with a stick? However, it is hoped that the beating man will go to the bed of his wife at the end of the same day. )
2060-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) has never beaten any of his servants or women, nor has he beaten anything with his blessed hand. "
2061-) - “... According to what is reported from Iyâs bin Abdillah bin Ebî Zübâb (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Do not beat your concubines (wives). ) After this order, Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! (After your command) The women became emboldened and began to disobey their husbands, she said. Thereupon, the license to beat women (for reproof and in a way that would not leave any scars) was granted. Women were also beaten. After that, many women went to the wives of Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). someone complained about her own husband (violently beating). So you should not know the men who beat their blood (such) as your good ones. )
2062-) - “... from al-Ash'as bin Kays (radiyallahu anh); He said: I was a guest of Omar (radiyallahu anh) one night. When it was midnight, Ömer got up and started beating his wife. I separated them and when Omar returned to his bed, he said to me: O Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him), remember (learn) what I heard from him: He will not be asked why he beat his wife. Do not sleep without performing the witr prayer. ) The narrator said that I forgot the third sentence (of the Prophet). ... the narrator said that the hadith was narrated to him in a second sened after Abu Avane. "
2064-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (or Allah has cursed) women who grow a woman's hair with another hair, have her hair grown with another hair, have tattoos and be beaten He informed that he cursed). "
2065-) - “... From Esma (bint-i Ebibekr) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: A woman came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: My daughter is a newly married poppy. He fell ill with an epidemic and his hair fell out. Can I (can) reproduce his hair with another hair? said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Allah has cursed (or cursed) the woman who grows her hair with another hair and the woman who grows her hair with another hair."
2066-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed women who get tattooed for beauty, be beaten, pluck their facial hair and part their front teeth (with tools such as a file), thereby changing the natural beauty created by Allah. When a woman named Umm Yakub (Ibn Mas'ud) from the Banu Asad tribe heard this hadith, she came to Ibn Mas'ud and said: I heard that you said that. Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh) said: Why shouldn't I also curse those whom the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed, although what I said is in Allah's book? said. Woman: I certainly read the entire book of Allah. He said, "I couldn't find this point that you mentioned (in it)," he said. Ibn Mas'ud: If you have read the Qur'an, no doubt you have found what I said. You: Didn't you read the verse? When she replied, the woman said: Yes. He said (I have read this verse). Ibn Mas'ud definitely forbade what I said. (This time) the woman said: I think your family members would do (what you said was forbidden). Ibn Mas'ud said: Go and look. The woman went and looked but could not find what she was looking for. (Then he turned and said) I couldn't see anything. Abdullah (Ibn Mas'ud) said to the woman: If my family had been as you said, they would not have been able to live with us (ie we would have divorced him). "
2067-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) married me in the month of Shawwal and (again) married me in the month of Shawwal. (Although my marriage and engagement are in the month of Shawwal) Which of his wives is luckier (happy) than I am with him? Aisha (to obey the Prophet) preferred to import the women who were her relatives into marriage in the month of Shawwal. " ". . . According to what is reported from al-Harith bin Hisham (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) married Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) in the month of Shawwal and had intercourse with her in the month of Shawwal. "
2069-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); While the man did not give anything to his wife, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered Aisha (radiyallahu anha) to include the wife in the man's wedding room. "
2070-) - “... From Mihmar bin Muaviye (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: There is no bad luck. Sometimes (those) three things are auspicious) In woman, horse and home.) "
2071-) - “... According to what is reported from Sahl bin Sa'd (as-Saidi) (radiyallahu anhu): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said the following; If it happens, it happens on horse, woman and house. ) Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) meant bad luck. "
2072-) - “... According to what is reported from Salim's father (Abdullah bin Omar) (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (It happens in three things: horse, woman and home. ) "...
2074-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Allah loves some and deems others ugly. Jealousy that Allahu ta'ala loves is the reaction shown when it is strongly believed to be evil. As for jealousy, which Allah sees as ugly, it is a reaction when there is no sign of evil. )
2075-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: Because I saw that (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) commemorates Hadice (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) (a lot) with me, I have never been more jealous of any woman (of my clothes) than I envied her. (As another reason for jealousy) and I swear the Lord has ordered the Prophet to give the glad tidings of Hadice with a mansion in Paradise from the butcher (Ibn Maceh said, that is, of gold). "
2076-) - “... from al-Misver bin Mahrema (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard him (personally) say, while he was on the pulpit: The sons of bin al-Mugire asked me for permission to marry their daughter to Ali bin Abi Talib. (But) I won't let them, then I won't let them, and then I won't let them. But if Ali wants to divorce my daughter and marry their daughter (in that case I will allow it). Because without a doubt, my daughter is a part of me. What hurts him also hurts me, and what hurts him also hurts me. )
2077-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali bin al-Husayn (bin Ali bin Abi Talib) (radiyallahu anhum): al-Misver bin Mahrema (radiyallahu anh) said to him: bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh) While he was married to Fatima (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the daughter of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he wanted to marry the daughter of Abu Jahl. When Fatima heard this situation, she went to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said; (Daddy, when his daughters are tortured) everybody says you're not angry for them. "Look, Ali is about to marry Abu Jahl's daughter," he said. he said. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood up (he delivered a sermon. In his sermon), I heard him say the following after giving testimony: (After praising, praising and shahadah, (you should know:) I (my daughter Zeyneb) Abul-Âs bin er) -I got married to Rabia. He promised me (not to marry on Zainab) and acted right (in his promise) towards me. And no doubt, Mohammed's daughter Fatima is a part of me. I swear by Allah that the daughter of the Messenger of Allah could never marry the daughter of the enemy of Allah (Abu Jahl) under a man's marriage. He refused to want his daughter. "
2078-) - “... According to what was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she would say: Wouldn't she feel ashamed to donate her self (her womanhood) to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (without mahr)? (They shamed him.) Finally, when Allahu ta'ala Nabi revealed the verse "You can leave behind the watch of any of your wives, you can take any one you want with you (you don't have to practice the vigil between women)," Aisha said, "I said: (O Messenger of Allah) Surely your Lord is your wish. and immediately realize your desire without delay. "
2079-) - “... From Sabit (al-Bannâni) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: We were appointed next to Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh). One of his daughters was also with him. Enes: woman. She came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and presented her self (her womanhood) to him and said: O Messenger of Allah! By saying do you need me (proposing to marry her)? The daughter of Enes said: I am surprised at the little life of that woman. Thereupon, Enes said (to his daughter): A woman is better than you. She said, "Because she wanted to marry (the honor) of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), she presented her soul to Him. "
2080-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: A man from Fazara (tribe) came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! My parents gave birth to a black boy. (He wanted to say that I doubt my family because I am not black.) Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked the man: (Do you have camels?). The man said: Yes (there is). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (Well, what are the colors of camels?). “It is red,” the man replied. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Is there a gray camel with black and white in camels? The man replied: Surely, there are gray camels that turn white and black among them. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked: “Then where did that gray color come from?” The man replied: It is hoped that he draws a vein from his lineage. The Prophet said: (It is hoped that this child also draws an old lineage). The hadith was narrated by Abu Bakr and Muhammad bin Sabbah. This expression belongs to Muhammad bin Sabbah. )
2081-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: A man came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! My wife gave birth to a black son on my bed (i.e. under my wedding). However, we are such a family that there has never been a black person among us, he said (he wanted to express his suspicion of his wife.) The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) asked him, "Do you have camels?" The man said: Yes (there is). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (Well, what are their colors?). “It is red,” the man replied. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked, “Is there a black camel in them?” The man said: No. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Are there any camels, the white of which is black and brown, among them?” The man said: Yes (there is). Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); (Well, where did that gray color come from?) he asked. The man replied: It is hoped that a vein from his descendants draws him. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “It is hoped that a vein from your lineage will draw this son of yours.” "
2082-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: Zam'a's son (Abd) and Sa'd (bin Ebi Vakkas) about the son of his concubine (the determination of Abdurrahman's ancestry and who should be considered his son), and the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) for the settlement of the conflict between them. they applied. Sa'd: O Messenger of Allah! My (deceased) brother (Utba) bequeathed to me that when I arrived in Mecca, he looked at Zam'a's concubine's son and asked me to capture (take) (Because he said the child was his), he explained. He said to Abd bin Zam: The boy is my brother, he is the son of my father's concubine, he was born on my father's firâş (bed). Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw that the child looked like Utba and said: “O Abd bin Zam! This child (named Abdurrahman) is your (brother). The child belongs to Firas (your owner). ve sallem) said to his wife Zam, to her daughter Sevde: "Sevde! You don't appear to this child (named Abdurrahman) from now on)."
2083-) - “... According to what is reported from Umar (bin al-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh): (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) decided that the child belongs to the firash (owner). " ..... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Firash belongs to the owner. There is deprivation of (child) for an adulteress (man). )
2085-) - “... From Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Firash belongs to your owner. There is deprivation of (child) for the adulterer (man).
2086-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma): He said: woman. He came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and became a Muslim. Then she married a man. Ibn Abbas said that then the first husband of the woman came and said: O Messenger of Allah! He said, "I had become a Muslim with my (this) wife and my wife knew that I was a Muslim." Ibn Abbas said: Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took the woman from her last husband and returned her to her first husband. "
2087-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) returned his daughter (Zeyneb) to (her husband) Abu'l-As bin er-Rabi'a with her first marriage two years later. "
2088-) - “... From Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) returned his daughter Zaynab to Abu'l-As bin er-Rabi (her husband) with a new marriage. "
2089-) - “... From Cüdame bint-i Yehb al-Asadiyye (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: ghiyali (a man's sexual intercourse with his lactating wife) I wanted to ban it. (But) I saw that novices and Greeks are doing their job and they are not killing their (lactating) children. )) and when he was asked about the decree of azil (retreating a man and letting his water flow out during sexual intercourse), I heard him say (personally): ve'd (= a secret type of burial of a girl alive). )
2090-) - “... According to what is reported from Asma bint-i Yazid bin es-Saken (radiyallahu anha), she heard the following from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): Do not secretly kill your children (by having sexual intercourse with your wives). I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my soul, that gayl (sexual intercourse with a lactating woman is so harmful to the child that the child grows up) reaches him while he is on horseback, and finally he falls off his horse and causes his death.)
2092-) - “... According to what is reported from Muâz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When a woman (a believer) harms her husband, the man's wife from Hurul-Iyn (this woman) said: Take your life, do not torment the man. Surely he is a guest next to you, he says, soon to leave you and come to us. )
2093-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He does not make halal haram. )
2094-) - “... According to what is reported from Umar bin al-Khattah (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (daughter of Omar bin al-Khattab) Hafsa (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) (rec’ He divorced her (with î talaq) and then reverted to her. "
2095-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "What is the matter with people that they are playing with the laws of Allah? One of them said (to his wife): I divorced you. I made a recourse (return) to you. He says I divorced you. )
2096-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Of the things that are not haram, the thing that Allâhu ta’âlâ dislikes the most is divorce. )
2097-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: I divorced her (with one talaq) while she was in her menstrual period. (My father) Umar told this situation to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Order Abdullah to return to his wife, then let the woman stay with her until she gets clean, sees her menstrual period again, and then becomes clean again (after the woman is cleared from her period for the second time) Then, if your son wishes, without having sexual intercourse with her may divorce. If he wishes, he can continue his family life with him. So, if a woman is cleansed of her menstruation for the second time and yet to divorce her without having sexual intercourse with her in this state of cleanliness, it is the divorce that is suitable for the beginning of the iddah permitted by Allah.)
2098-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: Divorce in accordance with the (hadith) is a man's divorce when his wife is clean (from menstruation and puerperium) and without having sexual intercourse with her. "
2099-) - “... It is reported from him that Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh) said the following about divorce in accordance with the Sunnah (hadith): He divorces his wife with a talaq (without intercourse with her) in every state of cleanliness. When the woman is cleansed for the third time (again without having intercourse with her), her husband divorces her (with a final talaq). After this last divorce (iddah), the woman should have a menstrual period once. (That is, once he has menstruated and is cleansed, his iddah ends.)
2100-) - “... Yunus bin Jubayr Abu Ghallab (radiyallahu anh) said: I asked Abdullah bin Omar about the situation of the man who divorced his wife while he was in his period. Abdullah (radiyallahu anh): Do you know Abdullah bin Omar (meaning me)? (Here is Abdullah) divorced his wife (with a talaq) while she was menstruating. Then (his father) Umar came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and presented the situation. The Prophet then ordered Abdullah to return to the mix. When I (to Abdullah) returns from his divorce, will that talaq be counted against the man? I asked . Abdullah (radiyallahu anh): if the man is incapable of returning to his wife (after the vow of divorce) or. If he is a fool and does not return even though he is able to return (Isn't that talaq calculated against the man?) Yes, that talaq is calculated. "
2101-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He divorced his wife while she was on her menstrual period. Then Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) explained the situation to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Tell Abdullah to return to his wife. Then, he said, "Divorce while his wife is purified from her menstruation (without having intercourse with her-) or while she is pregnant (she may divorce"). "
2102-) - “... From Amir al-Shaabi (radiyallahu anh); He said: I said to Fatima bint-i Kays (radiyallahu anha) tell me about your divorce. Fatima: While my husband was in Yemen, he divorced me three times. He said that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) considered it valid. "
2103-) - “... According to what is reported from Mutarrif bin Abdillah bin al-Shihhir (radiyallahu anh), bin al-Husayn (radiyallahu anh) was asked the following question: A man divorces his wife (with one or two talaqs). . Then (while the iddat has not yet ended) he returns to his wife and has sexual intercourse with her. However, the man did not testify (in the presence of witnesses) neither divorce nor raj'at (return). (radiyallahu anh) said (in response to this question): You (by not witnessing divorce and returning to your wife) divorced against the Sunnah of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and (again) you performed raj'at contrary to his sunnah. He said, "You should divorce the woman and pay homage to her in the presence of the witnesses."
2105-) - “... from Abu's-Senabil (bin Ba'kek) (radiyallahu anh); She said: al-Aslemiyye bint-i al-Haris (radiyallahu anha) gave birth twenty-odd nights after the death of her husband. Then, when she got out of the puerperium state, she got ready to receive marriage proposals. This situation of his was condemned and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was also told. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he commits (marriage) (he can do it), because the period of iddah has expired. ) "
2106-) - “... According to what is reported from Mesrûk and Amr bin Utbe (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): They wrote a letter to Sübey'a bint-i al-Haris (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) and asked him about his iddah status. He wrote to Sübey (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) as follows: She gave birth to Sübey twenty-five days after her husband's death. Then she was prepared with the desire to marry a good husband. Meanwhile, Abu's-Senabil bin Ba'kek (radiyallahu anh) stopped by him and (seeing that he was getting ready) said: You hurried. "Wait for four months and ten days, which is the long idda," (he objected to Subay'a (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) quitting iddah by giving birth.) Subay'a (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) (said) Arriving next to him: Rasulallah! I said ask forgiveness for me. He asked: What is istighfar about? I presented the situation to Him. Thereupon he said. If you find a righteous husband, marry. )
2107-) - “... According to what is reported from Misver bin Mahrama (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered Subay (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) (whose husband died) to marry when he got out of his confinement. From Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); He said: By Allah, let us curse the unjust one together. (—Let's curse the one who is unjust.) Surely, Surah Talaq was revealed after the verse stating that (the iddah of a woman whose husband dies) is four months and ten days."
2109-) - “... According to what is reported from Zaynab bint-i Ka'b bin Ucra (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); Bint-i Malik (radiyallahu anha) told Furay, sister of her husband Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh): He went out to look for his (escaped) slaves and caught up with them on the side of Qadum. Slaves killed my husband (there). I got the news of my husband's death. At that time, I was living in one of the houses of Ansar, which was far from my father's house. me on it. Arriving near the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Messenger of Allah! I got the news of my husband's death. I am in a house far from my father's house and my brothers' house. My husband did not leave me any property to be spent, nor any property that I inherited, nor did he leave a house in which he was the owner. I asked permission if you would let me move into my father's house and my brothers' house, I would certainly like it very much and it would be good in some ways. The Prophet said: (Do the moving thing). He said to Furay: I left the presence of the Prophet delighted with this decree given for me by the tongue of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Finally, when I was in the mosque or on the landing of the house, the Prophet called me (back) and said: How did you say it?). He said to Furay: I told him again what I said. Thereupon, he said to me: (that is, the duration of which is determined in the Qur'an) until the period of iddah is completed, stay at your husband's house where you heard the news of his death. He said to Furay: I stayed in that house for four months and ten days. "
2110-) - “... Urwa (bin Zubayr) (radiy-Allâhu anh) reportedly said: (Governor of Medina-i Münevvere) I went to Marwan (bin al-Hakam) and said to him: One of your family the woman is divorced (in iddah). I stopped by him, he was changing his house. Then the woman said: Fatima bint-i Kays allowed us to change our house and informed us that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) allowed her to change houses (while she was in iddad). (Urve said:) Thereupon, Marwan said: (Yes.) Fatima ordered them to change houses. Urwa said: Upon this word of Marwan, I said: (Good) but I swear to Allah that Aisha condemned this fatwa of Fatima and said: Fatima was in a deserted and remote house. It was feared that he would stay in that house. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) allowed Fatima to change houses because of this.
2111-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she said: bint-i Kays: O Messenger of Allah! He said, "I'm afraid of being forced into my house (because the house where I stopped for iddat is deserted). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah allowed him to change houses. "
2112-) - “... From Jabir (bin Abdillah bin Amr bin Haram al-Ansari) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He was divorced (with three talaqs). He wanted to go out (out of the house) to cut the dates in his date palm. But a man prevented him from going to his date grove (on the grounds that he was in iddat). Thereupon, my aunt went to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (and explained the situation to him). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “No. Cut your dates. Because it is undoubtedly expected that you will give alms or do other good deeds (from the dates). "
2113-) - “... According to what is reported from Fatima bint-i Kays (radiy-Allâhu anha); He divorced himself with three talaqs, but the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made neither a dwelling place nor a month (his right) for him (his iddah period). "
2114-) - “... From Fatima bint-i Kays (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was alive, my husband divorced me (with three talaqs). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to me): There is neither housing nor alimony (right). "
2115-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: "I seek refuge in Allah from you," said Amra, her daughter Amra, when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was married and was brought before him. Thereupon, the Messenger of God said: Amra, after saying that you took refuge in a person (who is in exalted glory) (that is, in Allah) divorced her and ordered Usama or Anas to wear three layers of clothes made of white linen called razikkiyya. . "
2116-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhum), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: She claimed that her husband had divorced her, Then, when a just male witness brings a witness, her husband is offered an oath. If the husband swears (that he cannot divorce her), the witness's testimony is invalid, and if the husband refrains from taking the oath, his abstention will be replaced by another witness and the divorce will be decreed. ) "
2117-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There are things that are serious and serious, and their jokes are serious: Marriage, divorce and raj'at. )
2118-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Undoubtedly, Allahu ta’âlâ has forgiven unless they (actually) do or say what is in their hearts. )
2119-) ... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The item of class responsibility has been lifted: from the one who sleeps until he wakes up, from the child until he reaches the age of puberty, and from the insane until he gets wiser or sober. )
2120-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The pen of responsibility is removed from the insane and the sleeper. ) "
2122-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Unless they (actually) commit or say (with their tongues) the inclinations of their hearts (to sin). And Allahu ta'ala has certainly forgiven what they were forced to do. )
2123-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Allahu ta'ala has forgiven his mistake, forgetting and what he was forced to do.) "
2124-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There can be no divorce under him, nor freeing a slave and a concubine. )
2125-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There is no divorce (authority) for a woman he has not married.)
2126-) - “... According to what is reported from Misver bin Mahrama (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There is no divorce before they are slaughtered, and there is no freeing (slaves) before they become possessed. ) ..... According to what is narrated from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There is no divorce before being slaughtered. )
2128-) - “... Evzâî: I asked Zuhri: Which wife of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) sought refuge in Allah from him? I asked. Zuhri replied: "Urve informed me that Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: When the daughter of Amra (Amra) was put before the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) approached her, she said: “I seek refuge in Allah from you.” The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: You (the daughter of Cevn) took refuge in the great (Allah). Now go with your family.) "
2130-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) left us (that is, his honorable wives the choice to stay with him and to divorce him), we (all His wives) chose him (that is, by choosing to stay under His marriage to worldly things and ornaments). The Messenger of God did not see our election as talaq. (So he didn't count it as a talaq.)
2131-) - “... From Aisha (radiyallahu anha): He said: . . . . . When the verse was revealed, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered my room and said: Aisha! I will tell you a situation. There is no harm in you not hurrying to make a decision about this situation without asking your father's and mother's orders.) He said: By Allah, he knew that my father and mother would not order me to leave him. Aisha said: The Messenger of God (after this order); He recited his verses to me. Then I said: Shall I ask my father and mother's orders regarding this matter (ie, about worldly possessions and ornaments or choosing Allah and His Messenger). I have definitely chosen Allah and His Messenger (worldliness). "
2132-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "There is no woman who finds the scent of Paradise even though she wishes for a divorce from her husband when there is no excuse for her request. )
2133-) - “... According to what is reported from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If a woman wishes to divorce her husband, even though there is no difficult situation (requiring divorce), the scent of Paradise is haram for her. )
2134-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: bint-i Salûl came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlullah! By Allah, I (my husband) do not condemn Thabit (bin Qays) for his deen (deficiency) nor for his (bad) character. (So that's not the reason why I want to break up with him.) But (if I stay with him) I find it ugly to be in an abusive situation, (because) I can't afford not to hate him. (Therefore, I want to break up with him), he said. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked Jamila, “Can you return the orchard that he once gave you as a mahr?” The woman said: Yes, I will. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered Thabit bin Kays to take the orchard from Jamila (back) and not to take anything more than that (and to divorce the woman in return). (The woman's garden, and Sabit gave her talak.)"
2135-) - “... From Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); He said: bint-i Sahl was under the marriage of Sabit bin Kays bin Shammâs. He was an ugly man of fixed short stature. Habib: O Messenger of Allah! He said, "By Allah, if it were not for the fear of Allah, I would spit on my husband's face (due to his ugliness by nature) when he came into my side stationary." (This is why he said he wanted to break up with her.) Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked the woman: Can you give her back the garden that she once gave you as a mahr? “Yes, I will,” he said. He said: Thereupon, the woman gave the orchard back to Sabit. The narrator said: After that, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) separated Thabit and Habiba from each other. "
2136-) - “... from Ubade bin Samit (radiyallahu anh); He said: I said to Rübeyyi' bint-i Muavviz bin Afra' (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) "Tell me about the incident of your husband hugging you." Rubeyyi' said: I broke up with my husband through hul'. Then I went to Osman (bin Affan) (radiyallahu anh) and said: How much idda do I need? I asked. Uthman said to me: There is no idda on you. However, if your husband has approached you recently (that is, he has had sexual intercourse), she said, "You will wait under his right until you see your menstruation once." Rubeyyi said: In this fatwa, Osman obeyed the decree of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) about Meryem al-Magâliye. Mary was under the marriage of Sabit bin Kays and separated from him via hul'. "
2137-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) took an oath not to enter his women’s rooms for a month. Upon this oath, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) waited for twenty-nine days. Finally, towards the end of the thirtieth day, he came to my room. I said, 'Obviously you have sworn not to enter our rooms for a month. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said three times: (sometimes) and he was releasing ten fingers of his hand each time. (Then again three times): the moon is (sometimes) like this, ) (he said) and he let go of all his fingers, and the third time he smashed one of his fingers. "
2138-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did it only for the following reason: Zaynab (bint-i Jahsh), one of his women, returned his gift to him. Then Aisha. To the Messenger of Allah: No doubt, Zaynab underestimated your gift. said. Our Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was also angry and took all his wives. "
2139-) - “... (Mother of the believers) Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha) reported that she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) took an oath not to enter the rooms of some of his women for a month. When (this period) was twenty-nine days, he went to (Aisha's room) towards the end of the (thirtieth) day or before it. (from Aisha): It was said: O Messenger of Allah, only twenty-nine days have passed. "
2140-) - “... From Salama bin Sahr el-Beyâzî (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I was a very lustful man towards women (who are halal). I don't think there is a man who has contact with halal as much as I do. Because of this situation, when the month of Ramadan started, (in order not to make a mistake during the day), I kept zihar from my wife until the month of Ramadan came out. One night, while my wife was talking to me, a sensual side of her opened up and I caught sight of that place. So I jumped on my wife and made contact. In the morning, I went to my people and told them what had happened to me and asked: Ask the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about this situation for me. (But) They: We're not going to do that. (Because) when we do this, (see you) Allah sends a verse about us or there is an opinion (hadith) of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) about us, the stain of it will be on us, but we will leave you alone with your sin. They said, 'Go and tell the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about your situation. Salama said: I left (from them) and finally came to the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and presented the incident that had happened to me. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to me: ((O Salamah) did you (or) commit this deed? (This word is in the nature of condemnation.) Me too: (Yes) I am the one who did it. And O Messenger of Allah! Here I am (I am ready), I said, I will be patient with Allah's judgment against me. Rasû-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Then release a rival (slave or concubine).” Salama said: (O Messenger of Allah!) I said, "I swear by Allah, Who has sent you with the truth (religion), that I do not own anything but my own soul." Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ; (Then fast for two consecutive months). Salama said, I said: O Messenger of Allah! Did the affliction befall me for any other reason than my fasting? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “In this case, give alms or give food to seventy poor people.” Salama said: I said: I swear by the One Who sent you with the truth (Allah), we spent this (last) night without having dinner. They said: (In that case, go to the zakat officer (of the Bani Zuraiq tribe) and tell him to pay their zakat to you. You also feed sixty poor people and benefit from the rest, )
2141-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: Allahu ta'ala, who covers everything, is very exalted. While Hawle bint-i Salebe was complaining about her husband to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (she was speaking in such a soft whisper that I was with them), I could actually hear her words, but I could not hear some of them. Hawla was saying: Messenger of Allah! My husband ate my youth, my stomach spilled over him (i.e. I gave birth to him). When I finally got old and cut off from the child, my husband made a zihar to me. My God, I am sure that you are my state. I'm submitting. (continuing to say that) and before he left there, finally Gabriel (Aleyhisselâm) revealed the following verses. 1, 2, 3 and 4th verses) Muhammad) Allah has heard the words of the woman who argued with you about her husband and presented her state to Allahu ta'ala, and Allah hears the two of you (you and the woman) talking to each other. Surely, Allah is Hearing and Seeing (everything). )
2142-) - “... According to what is reported from Salama bin Sahr al-Bayazi (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said about the man who had sexual intercourse with his wife before paying zihar (swearing zihara): penance (sufficient) )) commanded. "
2143-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): the man — Salama bin Sahr — made a vow of zihar about his wife and had sexual contact with her before paying expiation. Later, he came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and explained this situation to him. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (to the man): Why did you do that? (= That is, you approached your wife without paying the zihar penance?) He said. Man: Messenger of Allah! He said, "I saw the whiteness of my wife's ankle bracelets in the moonlight, I could not control my soul and had sexual contact with her." The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) smiled and ordered him not to approach the woman until he had paid the expiation. "
2144-) - “... According to what is reported from Sahl bin Sa'd-i Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: Uveymir, one of his sons, came to Asim bin Adi (who was the head of Aclan's sons) and said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu anhuwa) came for me. Ask the Prophet (peace be upon him) this question, he said: What do you think? If a person finds a man with his wife (if he knows for sure that they are committing adultery) and kills the (zani) man, will the husband of the woman be killed as retaliation for this murder? Or what does the woman's husband do? He went and asked this question to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). But the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) condemned these questions. (He didn't like it.) Then Uveymir ran into Asım and said: What did you do? she asked. Asim said to him: You did not bring me a good job. I (your problem) asked Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). But he disparaged these questions (he saw it as ugly to ask such questions), he said. Upon this, Uwaymir said: By Allah, I will go to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and ask this question. He saw that the verses of the Qur'an were revealed to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about himself and his wife. Nur: Verses 6, 7, 8 and 9. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the Lian transaction between Uveymir and his wife (Havle). Immediately after this process, Uveymir O Allah's Apostle! He said, "I swear to God that if I took this woman away (that is, if I kept her under my marriage), I would have lied to her, (that is, I cannot live with her anymore). The narrator said: And before the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered Uwaymir (to divorce his wife), he broke up with his wife (that is, he divorced her with three talaqs). This form of divorce has become a way to be followed for the husband and wife who are now cursed. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to those present): Take care of the woman. If she brings (bears) a child with a black body, dark eyes, big hips (and rough calves), I think Uveymir is indeed correct in accusing this woman of adultery. If the woman brings (breeds) a scarlet child like a red wolf from the species of lizard, I think Uveymir is a liar). The narrator said that then the woman (Havle) brought a child in a way that was disliked (that is, confirming the accusation of adultery). "
2145-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): bin Umayya (al-Ansari) reported that his wife (Havle) committed adultery with Sharik bin Sahmâ, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) He claimed in his presence. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to the Hilal: Prepare your witness or the hadd will be beaten on his back. The crescent moon to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He said, (O Messenger of Allah!) I swear by (Allah) who sent you with the truth (religion) that I am definitely the truthful word (in this isnad) and Allahu ta'ala will definitely send a verse that will save my back (person) from the ground in this matter. Ibn Abbas said: Right after; . . . . from the verse . . . . The Nazm-i İlâhî descended until the verse. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) immediately left (from the place where these verses were revealed to him) and sent news to Hilal and his wife (he brought them before him). Both of them came. (First) Crescent stood up and took the oath of lian (as commanded in the verses). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said (to the wives): Allah knows that one of you is a liar. Therefore, is there anyone (of you) who repented and abstained from this oath of lian? he was commanding. After the crescent took the oath of lian, his wife stood up and took the oath of lian (four times as ordered in the verses). In the fifth time, when it's time to say, "May Allah's wrath be upon Hawla, if Hilal is truthful (in the accusation of adultery)", the women present are there. They warned, "O woman, know that this (fifth) oath is certainly a painful torment." Ibn Abbas said: Upon this warning, the woman paused and backed up a little. We even thought that the woman would turn back (from disowning her husband) (and would go backwards without making the fifth oath). But the woman (she collected herself and said): By Allah, I will not disgrace and disgrace my tribe for the rest of my life, (and she took the fifth oath). Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to those who were there: Pay attention to the condition of the child that this pregnant woman will give birth to. If he brings a child with ruddy eyes, big hips and coarse calves, the child belongs to Sharik bin Sanmaya). The woman also gave birth to a child in this way. Thereupon, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If the decree of Allah's book (lian) had not been fulfilled, it would have been a situation for me and this woman (to have her stoning her"). "
2146-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: We were in Masjid an-Nabawi on a Friday night. A man (entering Maseid) (addressing the congregation there): If a man finds a man (in adultery) near his wife and kills the adulterer, you will kill the man (retaliation for the murderer). If you say (and cannot bring witnesses) that his wife committed adultery, you will punish her with the hadith. He said, "By Allah, I will definitely tell this to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)". Then he told this to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, Allahu ta'ala sent down the verses of Han. After the verses were revealed, the man (to the Prophet) came and claimed that his wife had committed adultery. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) also applied the rule of lian between the man and his wife and said: It is hoped that the woman will give birth to a black child (with curly hair) (and thus the case of adultery will be confirmed). Then the woman gave birth to a boy with curly hair and black. "
2147-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The man took the oath of lian with his wife and said that the child was not his. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) separated the spouses from each other and annexed the child (in lineage and inheritance) to the woman. "
2148-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: A man married a woman from the tribe of Beliclân (Beni Aclân). Then he went to her and slept with her one night. In the morning the man said: I did not find the girl a virgin. This situation of the woman was presented to the presence of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) summoned the young woman and asked him about this situation. Woman: No. “I was a virgin,” she said. Thereupon, the Prophet ordered the husband and wife to lie. They also took the vows of lian and the husband gave the woman dowry. "
2149-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There are four classes, they (and There is no lian (execution of oaths) between husband and wife: the Christian woman under the marriage of the Muslim man, the Jewish woman under the marriage of the Muslim man, the free woman under the marriage of the slave, and the concubine under the marriage of the free man. )
2150-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) took one of his wives (he took an oath not to enter their rooms for a month) and forbade them, thus forbidding what was halal (for him) and making expiation (necessary) for (such) oath. "
2151-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: There is an oath (paying expiation) for him to forbid something that is halal. Ibn Abbas was saying: Surely, the Messenger of Allah is a good example for you. "
2152-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): (her maidservant) freed Barire, upon which the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) liberated Barîra. He left a choice (about annulment of his marriage). Berîre had a free husband. "
2153-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); She said: her concubine) Berîre's husband was a slave named Muğîs. It's like I'm looking at poor Muğîs (the devastated state of his life is still in front of my eyes when he chooses to separate from her husband after being freed from her). Mughis (who loves Barîre excessively) used to wander behind Barîre (in and around the streets of Madinah) weeping and tears running down his cheeks. (Barîre, on the other hand, hated him.) One day, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to (my father) Abbas: “Do you not marvel at the excessive love of Abbas Mughis for Barira and Barîre’s hatred for him? Then (at the request of Mughis) the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Barîre: (O Barîre!) if only you would return to Muğîs. Because he is the father of your child. ) commanded. Berîre: O Messenger of Allah! Are you commanding me (to return to him)? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (I do not command). But I am an intercessor (intermediary). Berîre said: I do not need Mughis. "
2154-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: Three sunnahs (shar'i rulings) were completed due to Barira: When Barire was emancipated, she was released in terms of annulment, and her husband was a slave. The Companions used to give alms to Barire (when I was my concubine) and she would give it (of this charity) to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) as a gift. , ) commanded. He also said: (Velâ (that is, the right to inherit the freed slave and concubine) belongs to the freed person). "
2155-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (When he annulled his marriage), he was ordered (by the Messenger of Allah) to wait until he had menstruation three times (that is, not to marry another man before the end of this period). "
2156-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) released Barîre (in terms of annulment of his marriage when he was emancipated). "
2157-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “His talaq is two, and his idda is two periods of menstruation. )
2158-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Talaq is two times, and its idda is twice the menstrual period.”
2159-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The man came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! My master married me to his concubine. Now she wants to separate the concubine and me from each other, she complained. Ibn 'Abbas said: Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) (immediately) went up to the pulpit and said: People! What is the matter with one of you that he marries his slave to his concubine, then wants to separate them from each other? Undoubtedly, the (authority) of divorce belongs only to the (husband) holding the woman's leg (that is, it does not belong to the master of the slave).
2160-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu'l-Hasan (radiyallahu anh), who was freed from the sons of Nevfel, he said: After the slave (concubine) divorced his wife with two talaqs, both of them were freed. Can this man marry this woman (again)? The question was asked to Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ). Ibn Abbas said: Yes (she can marry). Thereupon, he asked Ibn Abbas: From whom are you (reporting) this (judgment)? he was asked. He replied: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ruled with this.
2161-) - “... from Amr bin al-As (radiyallahu anh); He said: Do not corrupt the sunnah (path) of our Prophet Muhammad (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) for us. The iddah of Umm al-Walad is four months and ten days.
2163-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “It is not permissible for a woman to mourn for a dead person other than her husband for more than three days.” "
2164-) - “... According to what is reported from Hafsa (radiy-Allâhu anha), the wife of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is not lawful for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to mourn for a dead person other than her husband for more than three days. )
2165-) - “... Umm Atiyya (Nesibe bint-i al-Haris) (radiyallahu reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A woman cannot mourn for a dead person other than her husband for more than three days, She mourns her husband for four months and ten days. She does not wear dyed clothes (for ornaments during this process), but she can wear a asb dress (a kind of dyed fabric from Yemen). He can use a little bit of kust or azfar (a type of frankincense).
2166-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: I had a wife under my wedding and I loved her, and my father hated her. Then (my father) Umar (radiyallahu anh) told the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) about this situation. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered me to divorce my wife. So I divorced him. "
2167-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Abdirrahman (as-Sulemi) (radiy-Allâhu anh): The man's father or mother (the narrator was hesitant) ordered him to divorce his wife. And the man (because he did not want to divorce his wife) committed to freeing a hundred slaves in case he divorced his wife. The man then went to Abu'd-Darda (radiyallahu anh). He saw that Abu'd-Darda was performing the morning prayer and was prolonging his prayer. He also prayed between noon and afternoon. Then the man (situation) asked him. Abu'd-Darda; "Hold your vow and obey your father and mother," he said. He said: "I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he said: The best of the gates of Paradise is (a means to enter) from now on, (if you wish) protect the rights of your father and mother well or abandon (protecting them thoroughly). )
2168-) - “... From Rifaa al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) swears by (Allah) in whose hand is his soul (power) when he wishes to take an oath. ) would say"
2169-) - “... From Rifaa bin Araba al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh); He said: I testify in his presence that the oath that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) took (usually): I swear by (Allah) in whose hand is my soul (power). ) was (as). Rifaa said: "The oath taken by the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (usually): I testify in your presence, I swear by (Allah) in whose hand is my soul (power). ) was (as).
2170-) - “... According to what is reported from Salim's father (Abdullah bin Omar) (radiyallahu anhum); Most of the oaths of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) were as follows: By Allah, who changed (their state of affairs), no. )
2171-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: The oath of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was (sometimes) as follows: and (if that is not the case) I seek forgiveness from Allah. )
2172-) - “... According to what is reported from Umar (bin al-Khattab) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (once) heard from him that Umar had sworn by his own father and said: (Surely, Allah will bless you. He forbids you from swearing by your fathers.) Umar said: I have neither taken an oath on my own fathers, nor have I taken such an oath from others (from the moment I heard this prohibition from the Messenger of Allah). "
2173-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdurrahman bin Samura (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He said: Swear by idols, nor by your fathers. )
2174-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If he takes an oath and says ‘I swear by Lat and Uzza’ in his oath, he should immediately say La ilaha illallah (that is, bring the word Tawhid.” ….. Sa’d (bin Abi Waqqas) ) (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I took an oath on Lat and Uzza (once when I was a new Muslim). So I presented my situation to Him. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "There is no deity worthy of worship except Allah. He is one, he has no partner, then spit on his left side three times and pull Euzu" (Satan's). Say I seek refuge in Allah from Allah. ) and do not swear like that again. )
2176-) - “... According to what is reported from Sabit bin Dahhak (bin Khalifa al-Ashhelî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If a person takes a false and deliberate oath by a religion other than Islam, he is as he said. )
2177-) - “... from Enes (radiyallahu anh); He said: A man said: "Then I will certainly be a Jew", when the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) heard him. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (In that case) it has come true. "
2178-) - “... According to what is reported from Burayda (bin al-Husayb) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If a person who says that he should stay away from the religion of Islam (depending on a condition such as if I have done something or something or not said something or something) is a liar (in this oath), that person (as he has said) is a liar. He was far away or deserved torment like those who were far from Islam). If he is truthful (in this oath), Islam will not return to him safely. )
2179-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) narrated that he heard a man swear by his father, and on that: (do not) swear on it. Whoever swears by Allah should speak the truth. Whoever is sworn to (convince) by Allah, may he be pleased! (Let him accept the requirement of his oath). A person who does not agree with Allah (the oath made in the name of Allah) is not close to Allah (a servant). )
2180-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: His son Isa saw a man stealing and said to him: Did you steal? he asked. The man said, "I swear by Allah, that there is no god worthy of worship except Him, no, (I did not steal)." Upon this, Jesus said: I believe in Allah (I confirmed the one who swore in His name) and I denied my eyes. )
2181-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (As a result) it is only to commit a sin or to feel regret. )
2182-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he takes an oath and says insha'Allah (that is, if Allah wills), this exception is (useful) for him. )
2183-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "A man who says, Insha'Allah (in his oath), turns back (breaks his oath) if he wishes, or leaves it (as it is). (He) will not have sinned. (That is, if he breaks his oath, he does not have to pay expiation.)
2184-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: A person who says (in his oath) Insha'Allah will not have committed a sin (when he breaks his oath). (So no penance is required)"
2185-) - “... From Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); He said: While preparations were being made for the expedition, I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in a small congregation and asked for a riding animal for ourselves. He is not with me) said. Abu Musa said, "Thereupon, we waited as long as Allah wished. Then camels (which belonged to the spoils of the Messenger of Allah) were brought. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered that three female camels with white humps (of fattening ones) be given to us. When we (taking the camels) left, some of us told our other friends: We asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) for riding animals for ourselves. He swore that he would not give us a mount. Then he gave us mounts. (We probably made him forget his oath, we can't get better after that) They said, 'Let's go back. Thereupon, we (returned) went to the presence and said: O Messenger of Allah! We asked you to come and give us the mounts. You swore not to give us mounts. Then we said, 'You put us on.' The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to us: (By Allah, I did not put you on. Allah put you on. By God, when I take an oath for something and then know that something other than that thing is better than that, I will surely make an expiation for my oath and do something that is better. ) or he said, "I do what is better and pay the expiation for my oath." "
2186-) - “... According to what is reported from Adi bin Hatim (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he takes an oath for one thing and then knows something better than that, let him do the better thing and pay the expiation for his oath. ) "
2187-) - “... From Malik al-Jushemi (radiyallahu anh); He said: (Once I) : The son of my uncle comes to me (= he needs me), so I said, I swear I will not give him (something) or give him a womb. He said: Pay your penance. )
2188-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: (A person who takes an oath to cut off ties of kinship or for something else that is not good (doing what is necessary) means not insisting on that thing (leaving it).
2189-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Whoever takes an oath and knows that something else is better than it, should abandon his oath because abandoning his oath is expiation for that oath.)
2190-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) paid the expiation of one sa' of dried dates and ordered the people to do so, whoever cannot find (one sa' of dried dates) pays half a sa' of wheat. "
2191-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: There were men who gave their grain (in the market) from materials that were plentiful, and there were those who gave their family's grain (in the market) from materials that were scarce. Thereupon, the command hymn descended (from the average of what you feed your family) (about the food to be given as expiation for the oath). "
2192-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Abu'l-Qasim (Muhammad) (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When someone persists in his oath (for something that will harm his family members), this insistence and obstinacy will undoubtedly cause him to pay the expiation for which he has been ordered (by breaking his own oath). It is more of a sin in the sight of Allah than for him.) "...
2194-) - “... From Berâ bin Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered us to confess (to abide by the requirements of his oath) who took an oath. "
2195-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdurrahman bin Safvân or Safvân bin Abdirrahman al-Kureşî (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): On the day of conquest, he brought his father before him and said: O Messenger of Allah! He demanded that I give my father a share of the virtue of your migration. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Surely, there is no migration (after the conquest of Makkah).” The bidder left there (the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) uncle) went to Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) and said, (O Abbas!) Do you recognize me? (And he presented his request to him too). Abbas said: Yes (I know you). You know such and such a man (that is, the bidder), and you also (know) the relationship between us and him. This man brought his father to you so that you may pledge allegiance to him (that is, his father) to migrate. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (After the conquest of Mecca) there is no migration for sure. Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): I swear by you (to pledge allegiance to this man’s father). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) extended his blessed hand and touched the hand of the man’s father and said, “I confessed to my uncle (I fulfilled his oath and there is no migration). "...
2290-) - “... From Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade dealing with trade and slaughtering milk-bearing animals before sunrise. "
2293-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Qatada (al-Ansari) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Refrain from taking an oath when you sell. Because an oath will make your property popular (and in demand), then it will destroy (make it good). )
2294-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he buys grafted date trees, its fruit is the seller's right. Unless the customer stipulates that (the fruit also belongs to him). This hadith, which was narrated from Ibn-i Umar as merfu', was narrated by our author from Malik through Hisham and from al-Leys through Muhammad. ) ...
2296-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he sells grafted date trees, the fruit (of that year) is the right of the seller. However, if the customer stipulates that (the fruit belongs to him), the fruit belongs to him. Whoever buys a slave who has property, the property of the slave is the seller's right. Unless the customer stipulates (the slave's property belongs to him). Our author has narrated this hadith, which was narrated from Ibn-i Omar through Muhammad, from al-Lays through Muhammad and from Sufyan through Hissam, both al-Lays and Sufyan reported it from Salim through Zuhri. they did.)
2297-) - “... According to what Abd-i Rabbıh narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiy-Allâhu anh) through Nafi: He ordered both of the relevant (mentioned in the previous hadith) decrees. (Râvî Abd-i Rabbih narrated both the date trees and the slave issue together.)
2298-) - “... from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh); He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When the customer does not stipulate (that it belongs to him), the fruit of the date trees (sold) is the right of the person who grafted the trees, and (again) that the property of the slave belongs to the seller unless the customer stipulates that the property of the slave belongs to the seller. ruled it was. "
2300-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Do not sell the fruit (on the tree and separate from the tree) until it becomes suitable (to be eaten by reddening or turning yellow). )
2301-) - “... Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiyallahu anhuma) reported that he said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wasallam) fresh fruit (on the tree and separate from the tree) until its suitability (to be reddened, yellowed and eaten) becomes evident. Forbidden to sell. "
2302-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade selling fruit until it turns red or yellow (on the tree and separate from the tree), selling grapes until signs of edibility appear (on the tree and separate from the tree), and selling it to grains until the grains become hard and strong. "
2303-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) the bey of Sinin forbade the business of pre-selling the fruits of certain trees that are called for the next few years. " ". . According to what is narrated from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: If you sell the fruits (on the tree) and then a disaster strikes the fruits (while they are not cut yet), the seller should not buy a commodity (that is, nothing at the price of the fruit) from his brother (customer). For what will one of you (the seller) take the property of his Muslim brother (customer)?)
2305-) - “... from Suveyd bin Kays (radiyallahu anh); He said: We brought some clothes for sale (to Mecca) from Mahrefe al Abdi Hajar. (We were selling in Mina) The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (meanwhile) came to us and bargained with us for a long underwear. (We sold him his underwear.) There was a weigher with us who weighed with money. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to this scaler (weighing the price we get for the clothes we sell): weigher! Weigh (the cost of underwear) and make your weight heavy, ) commanded. "
2306-) - “... From Malik Abu Safwan bin Umaira (radiyallahu anh); He said: I sold a piece of long underwear to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) before the migration (in Mecca). Thereupon, He weighed (the cost of underwear) for me and made the scale heavy in my favor. "
2307-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When you weigh something), make your scale heavy. )
2308-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) reportedly said: When (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to Medina, the people of Medina were among the most corrupt people in terms of measure. Then Allah Subhanahu wa Ta'ala; . . . . . . . sent down the verse. After this verse was sent down, the people of Madinah did a good job of measuring. "
2309-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) passed by a man selling grain, and he inserted his blessed hand into the heap. It turned out that the cluster is hiyle (= wet inside). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever deceives is not one of us. "
2310-) - “... from Ebü'l-Hamrâ' (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): He passed by a man who had a small amount of grain (for sale) in a container, and he inserted his blessed hand into that grain. Then to the man: I think you cheated. Whoever cheats - deceives us - is not one of us, ) said. "
2311-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “If he buys a grain, he should not sell it until he receives it (from the seller). )
2312-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he buys a grain, let him not sell it until he receives it (from the seller). ) Abu Avana added the following in his own narration: Ibn Abbas said: I think that everything (in this judgment) is like a grain. " ". . . According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade selling grain unless it is measured by two scales, the scale of the seller and the scale of the customer. "
2314-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) reportedly said: We used to buy food from the caravan by a lump sum method without measuring and weighing it. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) forbade us to sell the rations we bought before transferring them to another place. "
2315-) - “... From Osman bin Affan (radiyallahu anh); He said: I used to sell dried dates in the market and (to my customers) would say: I measured (when purchasing) with this scale, that's it, and (without measuring again) I would give containers of dried dates (to my customers) with that measurement (without measuring again) and get my profit. Then I had a doubt about my selling like this. Thereupon, I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) (his situation). He commanded. : When it comes to measuring (when selling), measure the date (again). ) "
2316-) - “... From Abdullah bin Büsr al-Mâzînî (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) that he said; measure so that it may be fruitful for you. )
2317-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Ayyub (al-Ansari) (radiyallahu anh); Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): measure so that it will be fruitful for you. )
2318-) - “... Abu Usayd es-Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went to the Nebyt bazaar and looked there. Then he said: It is not a (suitable) market for you (believers). Then he went to another market. After looking at it, he said: It is not a (proper) bazaar for you. Then he came back to this bazaar and wandered around here. Then: it is your bazaar. Do not let this bazaar be canceled and taxes should not be imposed on this bazaar (its sellers and buyers). "
2319-) - “... From Salman (-i Fârisi) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he said: a person who goes to his prayer goes with the flag of belief, and a person who goes to the market goes with the flag of satan. )
2320-) - “... According to what is reported from Salim's grandfather (Omar bin al-Khattab) (radiyallahu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: when he enters the market. . . . . . . If he recites his dhikr, Allah will give him one million good deeds, erase one million small mistakes and have a mansion built for him in Paradise. )
2321-) - “... According to what is reported from Sahr al-Gamidi (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He said, "O Allah! Make the first time of the day (that is, the work they do at this time) fruitful for my ummah." He said: And when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent a military unit or an army to war, he would send it at the first time of the day. He said: And Sahr was a man engaged in trade. (By following this order) he would send his trade goods early in the morning, so he became wealthy and his property increased. "
2322-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Make the first time of Thursday (that is, the work they do during this time) blessed for my Ummah. "
2323-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) prayed as follows: Make the first time of the day (that is, the work they do at this time) blessed for my ummah. )
2324-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: A person who buys an animal (= the milk that is not milked and stored in his chest to deceive the customer) is free (to accept the animal or return it to the seller) for up to three days. If he returns it, let him give not one sa samra (that is, wheat) but one sa of dried dates (for milked milk) with him. )
2325-) - “... According to what is reported in Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "People! A person who buys an animal (not milked but imprisoned in his breast to deceive the customer) is free (to return the animal) for up to three days. If the customer is going to give it back, let him give twice as much (or what he has) wheat as the value of his milk. )
2326-) - “... From Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); He said: And I testify on the innocent Abu'l-Qasim (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) that he said to us: Selling animals (which are not milked and stored in his chest to deceive the customer) is a deception and cheating is not lawful for any Muslim.) "
2327-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) decided that the income of the slave (purchased) was due to the slave's destruction (the customer's right). " "From Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: the man bought a slave and made him work and earn an income from him. Then he found a fault in the slave and gave it back (to the seller). Thereupon, the seller said: O Messenger of Allah! “He made my slave work and he made an income from it,” the man said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The income of the goods bought is the right of the customer, since he is responsible for its destruction. ) commanded. "
2329-) - “... It is narrated from Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (The (sold) slave's duty (that is, the time that the buyer is free or the seller's dhimma) is three days.)
2330-) - “... According to what is reported from Ukbe bin Amir (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “There is no obligation after the day. )
2331-) - “... According to what is reported from Uqba bin Amir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the following from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): He is the brother of a Muslim. It will not be lawful for a Muslim (this sale) to sell a defective property (religion) to his brother. Unless (when selling) you explain this fault to him. )
2332-) - “... From Vasile bin el-Eska' (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he said: A person who sells a property that he has not disclosed is always under the wrath of Allah and the angels constantly curse him. )
2333-) - “. From Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); He said: When he was brought, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) would give them all together (to one person) because he did not want to separate the people of the same household from each other. "
2334-) - “... From Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave me a brother and two young slaves. I sold one of these. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked: What did the two young people do? (I mean, how are they?)) I sold someone, I said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: take it back. "
2335-) - “... From Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed the person who separated the concubine and her child and the two brothers (who were slaves) from each other.
2336-) - “... From Abdulmecîd bin Vehb (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: Al-Adda' bin Khalid bin Hawze (radiy-Allâhu anh) said to me: Shall we not make you read an article that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wrote for me? Abdulmecîd said: I said: Have it read. Thereupon, al-Adda' wrote me a letter. I saw that there is the following expression in the article: It is the article about the sale of the goods that al-Addâ' bin Khalid bin Hevze bought from the Messenger of Allah, Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Al-Addâ' bought a slave or a concubine from him. (This sale) is the sale of a Muslim to a Muslim. There is no sickness (in the goods sold), no deception, and no malice.)"
2337-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When the slave girl buys it: My God! I certainly ask you for the good of this and the best of what you have created in it (your habits and qualities). Let him say I seek refuge with you from the evil of this and the evil of the (characteristics) you have created in it, and pray for him to be blessed. When one of you buys a camel, let him hold the highest part of the hump and pray for it to be blessed and say this prayer. )
2338-) - “... According to what is reported from Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Even if they are equal in terms of respect, selling gold for gold is interest. Unless (one of the parties says to the other;) Take this, (saying, give the gold in cash) and (the other side says to him:) Take this, (saying and give the gold in advance). (Even if they are equal in size) (even if they are equal in size) wheat (selling) is also interest- Unless (one of the parties says to the other;) Buy this, (say, give the wheat next to you in advance) and (the other will say to him:) Buy this, (say and give the wheat next to you in advance) . Selling barley with barley (even if the quantities are in kind) is also interest. Unless (one of the parties says to the other:) Take this, (saying, give the barley next to you in cash) and (the other side says:) Take this (saying, give the barley next to you in cash). It is also interest to sell dates (even if they are the same amount) with dates. Unless (one of the parties said to the other:) Take this, (say, give the date you have in advance) and (the other to him); Take this, (say, give the date you have in advance). "
2339-) - “... From Muslim bin Yasar and Abdullah bin Ubayd; He said: bin es-Sâmit and Muâwiya (radiy-Allâhu anhüm) met (one day) in a church or a synagogue, and Ubade bin es-Sâmit narrated the following hadith to them: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) He forbade selling it with silver, gold with gold, wheat with wheat, barley with barley, and dates with dates (one of Muslim and Abdullah said: And salt with salt, the other did not say that). (Unless these two things that are wanted to be sold with each other are equal to each other and both are in cash). .
2340-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Equal (and to be given hand in hand) silver with silver, gold with gold, barley with barley and wheat with wheat. (you can sell it.)) "
2341-) - “... From Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to give us (mujahids) mixed dates (appointment) (in the treasury). We would replace it with good quality dates, and we would give more dates than we took in exchange for the difference in value of the good date. (We used to sell two hrs of it for one sa of dates). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is not possible to sell sa (date) for one sa of dates and two dirhams (silver) for one dirham (silver). The dirham (both in cash and being equal to the weight) is the excess between the dirham and the dinar (which can be sold), and between two dinars (distorting the sale), but in terms of weight (excess). )
2342-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh) say: A dirham (silver) is sold with only one dirham (silver), and a dinar (gold) with only one dinar (gold) (that is, sold without excess). Thereupon, I said to him: I heard Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) say something other than (that is, if the weight of the exchanged silver or gold is not equal, there is no interest). Abu Said replied: I met Ibn 'Abbas and told him: Inform me of the basis of what you said about consumables (that is, the permissibility of exchanging gold with excess gold and silver with excess silver in advance)! Is this something you heard from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) or is it something you found in Allah's book? I asked. Ibn Abbas: I did not find this decree in Allah's book and I did not hear it from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) but Usama bin Zayd said to me: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) can only give credit. ) commanded. "
2343-) - “... from Ebü'l-Cevzâ (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I heard from him, that is, from Ibn Abbas: He was giving a fatwa for the consumption (i.e., selling silver with silver and gold with gold, whether or not the weight is equal, provided that it is paid in advance) and this fatwa was transmitted from him. Then the news reached me that he had returned from this fatwa. After a while, I met him in Mecca and said: I have received the news that you have reneged on this decree. Himself: That judgment was my opinion. However, Abu Said (-i Khudri) said that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade spending money. "
2344-) - “... According to what is reported from Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Selling with silver and selling silver with gold is riba (= interest). It turns out that (one of the parties to the other:) take this, (by saying, give in advance) and (the other will say to him:) take this, (give it in advance by saying)) Abu Bakr bin Abi Shayba said: I heard Sufyan saying this. : (Gold with silver) (commanded). You memorized it well. "
2345-) - “... From Malik bin Aws bin al-Hadesân (radiy-Allâhu anh): He came (one day to the assembly of the Companions) and said: Who wants to exchange their dirhams (with gold)? I asked. When Talha bin Ubeydullah (of the 10 people who were given the good news of Paradise) was with Omar bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): give it to us. Then when our kesedar (from Gabe) came, he said, "Come to us, we will give you your dirhams." Thereupon, Omar (radiyallahu anh) addressed Talha (radiyallahu anh): (This will not happen) by Allah. You will either give him his dirhams now or return his gold to him. Because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Selling with gold is interest. Unless (one of the parties said to the other:) take this, (by saying, give in advance) and (the other party said to him:) Take this, (by saying, give what he will give in advance.)). "
2346-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Gold can be exchanged for gold, and silver for silver, regardless of weight. Whoever needs silver should exchange gold for it. And whoever needs gold, let him exchange his silver with it. The consumption (that is, all of these replacements) is as follows: (One of the parties to the other:) Take this, (by saying, he gives it in advance) and the other to him. Take this, (saying that he will give in advance))
2347-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma): He said: I used to sell camels. I used to buy silver instead of gold (sometimes the cost of camels), (sometimes) dinars instead of dirhams, and (sometimes) dirhams instead of dinars. Then I asked the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about this situation. He said: When you buy one of the gold and silver and give the other, when there is confusion (due to what has been bought and given) between you and your friend (with whom you are shopping), do not leave him (that is, something unpaid).
2349-) - “... From Alkame's father, Abdullah (bin Sinan al-Muzeni) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade Muslims to cut and break their coin (gold and silver) coins when there is no need (and need). "
2350-) - “... According to what is reported from Zayd Abu Ayyas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the maula of the sons of Zuher; He asked Sa'd bin Ebî Vakkas (radiy-Allâhu anh) the decision of buying barley with suite (prophet's barley). Sa'd asked him: Which of these is more (in terms of volume) than the other? he asked. He replied: Barley (too much). (Zayd said:) Thereupon, Sa'd (radiyallahu anh) forbade me from this trade and said: I witnessed the following incident: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about the decision of buying fresh dates with dried dates. Thereupon he; He said: Does the date decrease (in terms of volume) when it dries? The Companions said: Thereupon, he forbade it (that is, buying fresh dates with dried dates). "
2351-) - “... From Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade muzabene. To the bargain; It is the man's selling the wet date (tree) in his date grove with dried dates on a scale (guessing). (Likewise) he sells the fresh grapes in his vineyard (on the branch, estimated) with raisins at scale, and the fresh wheat in the ear in his field (again, estimated) with pure wheat on the scale. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade all of them. "
2352-) - “... from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) has forbidden from Münakale and Müzâbene. "
2353-) - “... From Rafi' bin Hadic (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) He forbade Munakala and Muzabene. "
2354-) - “... From Sâlim's father (Abdullah bin Ömer) (radiy-Allâhu anhum); He said: Zayd bin Thabit informed me that (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) authorized the sale of Ariyya (that is, selling the fresh dates on a few trees as dry dates, presumably with the estimated amount of dried dates in cash). "
2355-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: Zayd bin Thabit informed me that (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) authorized the sale of Ariyya (that is, the fresh dates on a few trees) as dried dates by estimating the amount (with that amount of dried dates in cash). Yahya said: Ariyya is the person's giving the dried dates, which is the food of his family members, and purchasing the fresh dates (on top of) a few date trees, presumably by appreciating them as dried dates. "
2356-) - “... from Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade selling an animal with an animal on loan. "
2357-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Samura) (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There is no harm in selling an animal with two animals in cash.” "
2359-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The night I was taken, I came upon a people whose bellies were like chambers (large). They had snakes in their bellies that could be seen from the outside. Me: Who are they? O Gabriel! I asked. Gabriel said: These are interest eaters. )
2360-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There are seventy kinds of sins. The lightest of these is as much as the sin of a man committing adultery (or marrying) with his own mother. )
2361-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There are seventy-three doors (types). )
2362-) - “... from Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); He said: The descending verse is the verse of interest. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) died without interpreting this verse (with its details). From now on, leave both the interest and the treatment that is suspicious of interest. "
2363-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) undoubtedly cursed those who ate interest, those who gave it to him, his witnesses and his clerk. "
2364-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Surely, a time will come upon people when there will be no one among them who does not eat (i.e., does not receive) interest. The dust of interest will be added to those who do not eat interest anymore.)
2365-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “There is no one who increases wealth so that the end of his business does not turn into a decrease in wealth. ) "
2366-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: When (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) came (from Mecca to Medina-i Münevvere), the people used to treat dates as predecessors (to deliver the dates and pay the price in advance) in a two or three-year term. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If he wants to buy dates (something like) in the way of the predecessors, he should make a contract with a scale known (by the parties) or with a known scale and for a certain maturity. )
2367-) - “... From Abdullah bin Salam (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The man (one day) came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and (referring to a tribe of Jews): His sons became Muslims. But they were already hungry. That's why I fear that they will apostatize from their religion, he said. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Who has (something) with him?). A Jewish man said: I have this much (cash) with me, (I think three hundred dinars, he said) from the garden of so-and-so's sons (on the fruit to be taken) at this and that price (I will make a salam contract). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: And at this price and with such and such promise (it will happen). But (the record of the fruit to be obtained) cannot be obtained from the garden of the sons of so-and-so, ) said.
2368-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ebi'l-Mucalid (radiyallahu anh); He said: There was a conflict between Abdullah bin Shaddad (bin al-Hâd) and Abu Bürde (the judge of Kufa Amir bin Ebî Müsâ el-Eşarî) on the issue (whether there is no property with the seller during the contract made with his method, whether this contract is permissible or not). Thereupon, they (of course) sent me (one of the Companions) to Abdullah bin Abi Evfâ (radiy-Allâhu anhum) and I asked him. (In response to my question): (whether) while the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was alive and (if necessary) during the (caliphate) of Abu Bakr and Omar (caliphate) they were able to buy wheat, barley, raisins and dried dates with a people who did not have these goods. “We would do the salam,” he said. ... (Abdullah bin Abi'l-Mucalid said:) Then I asked (also) this question to (one of the Companions) Ibn-i Ebzâ (al-Huzâi) (radiy-Allâhu anh). This is how he replied (like Abdullah bin Abi Evfa)"
2370-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: When you buy a piece of property using the Salam method, do not exchange it for another (before delivery). ) ... (Ibn-i Majeh said:) Abdullah bin Said also narrated this hadith of Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh) in the same text and with the same promissory note. However, he did not mention the narrator Sa'd.
2372-) - “... According to what is reported from the people of Najran, he said: Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); Before the trees of a palm grove bring out the date flowers, do I buy its dates with the salam method? I said (Is this PERMISSION?). Abdullah bin Omar said: (Don't do this). Me: I asked. He himself said: While he was alive, a man made salam on the date trees (dates that his garden will give) that had not yet grown the date flowers. (In other words, he bought the date crop to be bought by paying a cash price). Then that date palm did not produce any crops that year. Then the customer said: This date palm belongs to me until it bears fruit. And the seller said: I sold you only this year's fruit of it. Then, the customer and the seller presented their disagreements to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to the seller: Did he buy anything (crop) from your date grove? The seller said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Then by what right do you consider the customer’s property lawful for yourself? Return what you have taken from him and (O believers) do not treat the date trees (in fruit) as salam until they become edible,) he commanded. "
2373-) - “... From Abu Rafi' (radiy-Allâhu anh) (freed slave of the Prophet (pbuh): He said; He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) borrowed a bakr (a so-called young camel) from a man and said: “When the zakat camels come (with it), we will pay your debt.” Then came the zakat camels. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Ebâ Rafi! He commanded this man to pay the bekr (= his young camel) that he will receive. I found only rebai (named seven-year-old camel) and older (superior) camels (among the zakat camels brought). Thereupon, I informed the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) that he could not find a camel equal to the man’s camel and that there were better camels. He: Give (what is better than his camel). Because the best of people is the one who gives his debt in the best way.) "
2374-) - “... from Irbad bin Sariye (radiyallahu anh); He said: I was with the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). A Bedouin came and said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): Pay for my baby (= my young camel) that I will get. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave him a camel of high age (that is, superior to his camel). Bedouin: Messenger of Allah! He said that he is older (that is, more valuable) than my camel. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The best is the one who repays his debt in the best way. ) commanded."
2375-) - “... According to what is reported from Es-Saib (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): You were my partner in your time. You were the best of partners. You would neither oppose nor argue with me. "
2376-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: I, Sa'd and Ammar made a partnership (contract) on the day of Badr (war). Then (at the end of the war) neither I nor Ammar brought anything. Sa'd brought two men (captives). "
2377-) - “... According to what is reported from Suheyb (bin Sinan) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "There is one thing that has blessings on them: the mixture of barley and wheat for the future sale, mukarada (so-called partnership) and not for selling, but for the house (grain). )
2378-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The most halal thing you eat is the bite from your (legitimate) earnings. Undoubtedly, your children are also your earnings. )
2379-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), a man said: Rasûlullah! I have (some) property and children. “My father really wants to consume my property from the root,” he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said (to the man): You are your father's (earnings) and your property is your father's (halal). ) commanded. "
2380-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhum): A man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: My father seriously took my property. 'It's gone from the root,' he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said; You are your father's (earnings) and your property is (halal) for him. ) commanded. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Believers: Surely, your offspring is one of your most halal earnings. Therefore, eat from their goods.)
2381-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: Hind (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlullah! (My husband) Abu Sufyan is a stingy person. He doesn't pay enough support for me and my child. He said, "However, the amount that I have taken from his property without his knowledge is sufficient for us." (And he asked if this was objectionable.) Thereupon, the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Take what is sufficient for you and your child (from his property). "
2382-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When she spends (and treats) from her husband’s house (with her consent) without wasting (according to custom and custom), (the narrator Muhammad said: My father — Abdullah — in his own narration: (Woman When he feeds her, he said. ) the reward of a woman will be for her. Because her husband earns this property, he will earn the same reward. A woman, on the other hand, gains thawabs for spending. The servant will receive such a reward. Allah does not decrease anything from their rewards (or the reward of a husband does not decrease the rewards of his wife or servant.)
2383-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) that he said: she cannot spend (or charity) anything from her husband's property. ) Those there: Rasûlallah! Can't he spend the food, too? they asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): It is one of your best possessions. ) commanded. "
2384-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to accept the invitation of the slave.
2385-) - “... from Umayr mawla Âbî'l-Lahm (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: My lord (Abi'l-Lahm) used to give me food. I used to eat that too. My master prevented me from (this) or (Umayr) said: (My master) beat me. Thereupon, I asked the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) or he (that is, my master) asked. I said: I will not give up or give up feeding the man. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) also: the reward of being fed) is between the two of you. ) commanded. "
2386-) - “... According to what is reported from Abbad bin Shurahbil (radiy-Allâhu anh), (one of the sons of Guber), he said: A year of famine and famine has come. So I went to Medina-i Münevvere and arrived in one of the gardens of this place. I took some ears of wheat and dug out the grains. I ate some. I put the rest in my dress. (By the way) the owner of the garden came, beat me and took my dress. So I went to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and told him (this situation). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to the man (who owns a garden): "You did not feed him (something) when he was hungry, and you did not teach him (anything) when he was ignorant." Then, with the order of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), the owner of the garden returned Abbad's clothes to him, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered that Abbad be given one or half a vesk of food. "
2387-) - “... From Rafi' bin Amr al-Gifari (radiyallahu anh); He said: When I was close to the age of puberty, I used to throw stones at our date trees (or he said) at the date trees of the Ansar (to drop their fruit and eat them). Then (once I was caught) I was brought to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to me: "O ghula (a grown child)! - The narrator Ibn al-Kasib said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: O my son! -Why did you throw stones on the date trees? are you throwing?) he said. Rafi' said: I said: I am eating (the date I dropped). The Messenger of God said: (After that, don't throw stones at the date trees and eat the dates that have fallen to the ground.) Rafi' said: Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) put his hand on my head and said: Feed him. ) commanded. "
2388-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When you come upon a shepherd (his flock), call the shepherd loudly three times. If the shepherd answers, (take his permission and drink milk). If there is no sound from the shepherd (that is, he cannot be seen), you can drink the milk of his flock without causing mischief (without milking the milk). When you reach the wall of a garden, call the owner of the garden three times aloud. If he answers you, (you will eat from the crop with his permission). If there is no sound from the garden owner, you can eat it without causing mischief (without taking away the crop). )
2389-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When someone passes over a garden, let him eat (the fruits). But he should not put anything from her in his clothes and take it away.)
2390-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "None of you should milk his mashiye (sheep, goat, cow, buffalo and camel) without the permission of a man. Would he like to go to one of your cellars and break the door and have his grain removed? (This is also the case.) Because the udders of their (milk-producing) animals certainly store food for them (like a pantry). Therefore, do not let any of you milk his maşiye without the permission of a man. ) ..... Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) says; He said: While we were traveling with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) (once) we came across a herd of camels, whose breasts were tied with idâ (a plant called idâ). We gathered (to milk and drink) where the camels are. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) called us. We returned to Him. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Verily, this herd of camels is the property of a Muslim household. Their milk is their provision, and after Allah, the blessing (and good property) they need. When you return to your containers in which you have provision for roads, Would it please you to realize that your provisions have been taken away? Do you see this as justice?) The Companions said: No. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (Of course, this is also the case). We: If we need food and drink, what will you order? we said. Thereupon, the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Do not take it with the food and do not take it with the drink.”
2392-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Hani' (radiyallahu anha); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to him: Get a goat. Because there is abundance in these animals. ) commanded. "
2393-) - “... According to what is narrated from Urwa al-Bârıkî (radiy-Allâhu anh) as merfû, the following is stated: It is a honor for its owners. Sheep and goats are also blessings, and no, they are knotted on the foreheads of horses until the Day of Judgment. )
2394-) - "... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiyallahu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: (Sheep and goats are animals of Paradise.) "
2395-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered the rich to acquire sheep and goats and the poor to acquire chickens, and said: When they acquire chickens, Allah wishes the villages to be destroyed. )
2396-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: A person who is made a kadi (i.e. the ruler) among them is strangled without a knife. )
2397-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The person who wishes to dominate is left alone with his own soul (helped by Allah). not allowed). Whoever is compelled to do so (that is, appointed to this task against his will) an angel descends on him and guides him to the right path. )
2398-) - “... From Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent me to Yemen (as a judge). (When he will send me) Me: Messenger of Allah! You are sending me. However, I am a (inexperienced) young man, I will make judgments between them, I do not know what the judgment is? said. Ali said: Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) slapped my blessed hand on my chest, then said: Guide his heart (to rule with fairness) and make his tongue (on truthfulness) firm). Ali said: After the prayer, I had no hesitation in deciding between two people.
2399-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Every judge who rules between them, when the Day of Judgment comes, an angel will hold him by the neck. Then the angel raises his head to the sky. If someone says (to the angel): Throw it away, the angel throws it into such a deep pit (hell) that it can reach the bottom of that pit in forty years. )
2400-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Abi Awfa (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Undoubtedly, Allah is with him as long as he does not commit oppression. When the judge is cruel, Allah leaves him with his own soul. (So it won't help him.))
2401-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said as follows. said: his curse is on (or be on) the bribe-taker and the bribe-taker.
2402-) - “... From Amr bin al-As (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) that he said: When he is going to make a decision, he makes ijtihâd (that is, seeks the truth with all his might) When he makes a decision, he gains two rewards (reward of ijtihâd and correct judgment). There is a reward for him when he makes ijtihâd (that is, seeks the truth with all his might) and makes a wrong decision when he is going to judge (the reward of îjtihad).
2404-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hasim (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: sallem) : It is divided into three. Both of them are in fire (i.e. hell). Someone is in heaven. The man who knows the truth and rules by it is in heaven. The man who dominates people without knowing the truth is in the fire. If it weren't for the hadith (that is, the man who does wrong in his judgment (that is, the man who knows the truth but rules with falsehood) is in the fire), we would have said: When the judge makes his ijtihad, he is definitely in Paradise. "
2405-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anhum); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Do not bend between two people when you are angry. In the narration, the text of the hadith is as follows: It is not appropriate for the Judge to judge between two people when he is in a state of anger. "
2406-) - “... Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha) (one of the mothers of the believers) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: You bring your cases to me. I am only a human being (I cannot know the ghayb unless Allah informs me). It is hoped that some of you will explain their meaning better than some of you. I will certainly judge between you according to what I have heard from you. Now, if I judge something in favor of his brother (that is, his opponent), then that person (who actually has no right) should not take that thing (from his brother). Because I would have cut a piece of fire for that person. That person will bring that piece on the Day of Judgment. )
2407-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I am only a human being (I cannot know every unseen). Some of you hope to have a better expression than some of you. In this respect, in whose favor do I cut off a piece of his brother (i.e. his foe) right? Surely, I would have cut a piece of fire for that person. )
2408-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Zer(-i Gifari) (radiyallahu anh); He heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: if he claims something that has no right, he is not one of us, and he should prepare his seat (hell) of fire. ) "
2409-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If he aids (or aids in oppression) in an unjust struggle (or cause), he is always under the wrath of Allah until he repent (repent)."
2410-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If people had been given (right) for their (without witnesses and only) claims, some people would have been the same as others. they would sue for their blood and property. However, the oath falls to the defendant.)
2411-) - “... From Al-Ash'as bin Kays (radiyallahu anh); He said: There was a land between a man from the Jews. The Jew denied my right. I took him to the presence of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: Do you have any witnesses? I said. Thereupon, the Messenger of God said to the Jew: Et). I said to him: when he falls, he will swear and take my property. Thereupon, Allah subhanah says: Those who change their covenant and their oaths for a small value will have no share in the Hereafter. Allah will not address them (compliment) on the Day of Judgment, nor will He look at them, nor will He purify them. And for them is the painful torment. ) (Al-i Imran: 77) revealed the verse. "
2412-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If a Muslim takes an oath, knowingly as a liar, in order to snatch the property of a man, he will go to the presence of Allah while he is incurring the wrath of Allah. )
2413-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Umama al-Harisi (radiyallahu anh); He himself heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: There is no man who breaks a person's right by taking an oath so that Allah will not forbid him Paradise and make the fire of Hell fire obligatory for him. O Messenger of Allah! Even if it's the right to be snatched and little else (?)? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Even if it is a miswak from its tree (this is still the case.)). "
2414-) - “... According to what is narrated from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If he makes a false oath in front of my pulpit, even if it is for a green miswak, he should prepare his fire seat.)"
2415-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: There is no slave or concubine who knowingly swears falsely by this pulpit, even for a miswak, so that Hell is not obligatory for her. )
2416-) - “... From Berâ bin Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) summoned a man (Abdullah bin Soriya), one of the scholars of the Jews. Then he said (to him): I make you swear (or ask you) by the One who sent down the Torah (Allah). "
2417-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to two male Jews: I make you two swear by Allah, who sent down the Torah (or I ask you both), ). "
2418-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The man (each of them) claimed that the same animal was his (property). (So one said: This animal is mine. The other said: No, it is mine.) There were no witnesses among them. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered them to cast lots for an oath. "
2419-) - “... From Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); He said: The man referred their cases to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), there was an animal (property conflict) between them and neither party had a witness. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) split the animal halfway between the parties. "
2420-) - “... According to what is reported from Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When his property is lost or stolen and then found in the hands of a seller, the man has the right to buy it first. The customer (ie the seller who bought it from someone else) also collects the price he gave from the person who sold it (this item to him).
2423-) - "... According to what is reported from a man from the tribe of Banu Sue, he said: I said to Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) to inform us about the disposition of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) told me: Don't you read in the Qur'an (no doubt you (O Muhammad) have high morals) (Pen: 4)? said. Aisha (continuing her speech) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was in my room (in my room) with her Companions (friends). I cooked for him. (Kumam) Hafsa also cooked for him. Aisha said: Hafsa (in terms of preparing the meal) surpassed me. I am my concubine. I said go pour the food in Hafsa's bowl. Just as Hafsa's concubine was putting the food in front of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), my concubine caught up with her and dropped the dish (by hitting her hand). The dish was broken and the food in it spread (on the leather table). Aisha said that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) put the parts of the bowl together and collected the food spilled on the leather table. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the Companions ate that meal. After that, the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent my bowl (with the food in it) and gave it to Hafsa and said: Take a bowl instead and eat the food in it (also). Aisha said: I did not see the effect of this work that I did in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on his blessed face. (So I didn't see any trace of rage.)
2424-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (once) was with one of his women (i.e. Aisha). Meanwhile, one of the believers' mothers (that is, the women of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)) sent a bowl containing food. Aisha struck the hand (with a piece of stone) of the envoy (servant) who brought the food. The dish fell to the ground and broke. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took the pieces of the bowl that had been divided into two and put them together. Then he began to gather the food and put it in it and (to the Companions): (Your mother was jealous. Eat it). The Companions ate the food. Finally, Aisha brought the (solid) bowl in her house. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) gave this solid bowl (to the servant) to the messenger (servant) and left the broken bowl in the house of the breaker. "
2425-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When his neighbor asks for permission to put a tree (tan hatil head) on his wall, the owner of the wall should not forbid him. ) When Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated this hadith to those with him, they bowed their heads (discouraging this). When Abu Hurayra saw them (their condition), he said: What is the matter, I see you turn away from this (sunnah). By Allah, I will protect the hat's head, which will be placed on the wall, between your shoulders. "
2426-) - “... According to what is reported from Ikrima bin Salama: One of the two brothers from (Benü'l-Muğira) took an oath not to let someone else's hatil heads be placed on the wall of his house and to free slaves. Then Mucemmi' bin Yazid and a large number of men from the Ansâr-ı Kiram (radiy-Allâhu anhum) came and said: Let's not prevent the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) from putting a tree (hatil head) on the wall of his house. , ) we testify that he said. (The sworn brother) then said (to the other): My brother! Judgment has been given in your favor and against me. I also took an oath (to free a slave). In this respect, you put a pole near my wall and leave your hat on the pole (so that my oath will not be broken).
2427-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Do not let one of you forbid his neighbor to put a tree (tan hatil head) on his wall. )
2428-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said:
2429-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When you have a disagreement about (the width) of the road, make it (wide)".
2430-) ... It was narrated from Ubade bin es-Samit (radiy-Allâhu anh) that it is forbidden to cause harm and to take revenge against harm. "
2431-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: There is no sting or taking revenge on harm. )
2432-) - “... According to what Abu Sirma (radiy-Allâhu anh) has narrated, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he harms (a Muslim man), Allah will harm him, and whoever harms a (Muslim man) God hurts that person too. )
2433-) - “... From the concubine (bin Zafer al-Hanafi) (radiyallahu anh); He said: The people applied to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to settle their disagreements about the ownership of a reed hut. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent Huzeyfe (radiy-Allâhu anh) to judge between them. Hudhayfah (he went) also ruled in favor of those whose houses were adjacent to the hut where the reed ropes were tied (that is, he gave the hut to them). When Hudhayfa returned to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he presented (his situation and judgment) to him. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Huzeyfe: (You gave a correct judgment and you did well.) "
2434-) - “... According to what is reported from Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When the property is sold to two different people, the property is the right of the first customer. )
2435-) - “... From Imran bin Husayn (radiyallahu anh); He said: a man had six slaves. And he had no other property. When the man was about to die, he freed them all. Then (informed of the situation) the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) (summoned the slaves and) divided them (three). He freed two slaves (who won the lot). "..... From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The man disagreed about the sale of a property. He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered them to draw lots to take an oath, whether they were willing to take the oath or not.”
2437-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); When he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wanted to go on an expedition, he would draw lots among his women (and would take the winner of the lot with him).
2438-) - “... from Zayd bin Erkam (radiyallahu anh); He said: While bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh) was in Yemen, the case of three men who had sexual intercourse with a (concubine) woman in a state of cleanliness was referred to him. (Each of these three men claimed that the child born from the woman was his own.) Then Ali said to two of them: Do you admit (that is, admit) that it belongs to this (that is, the third man)? she asked. The men replied: Then Ali said to two of them (of these three): Do you admit (accept) that the child belongs to this (that is, the other man)? she asked. They (also) said: Now Ali, two of them: Do you admit that the child belongs to this (that is, the other man)? and each time the men said: Thereupon, Ali drew lots among these three men, annexed the child to the man who won the lottery (that is, he decided that the child belonged to him) and charged two-thirds of the diet (ie the value of the concubine) to this man. Then, Ali's verdict was told to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) smiled so much that his blessed teeth were visible. "
2439-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered my room one day with joy and saying: Aisha! Did you know (that is, know that) Mucezziz al-Mudlicî (kaif named) came to me. He saw Usama and (his father Zayd) with their heads covered, with a fringed cover on them (while sleeping) and with their feet bare. (Kaif looked at him) Then he said: Some of these feet are from the others.) "
2440-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The soothsayer went to a woman and said to her: "Mark the stone where the footprint of (PBUH) is known to be found," and tell us which one of us is more similar in terms of traces to the owner of this office. The woman too; He replied, "I'll give you the news (what you want) if you put a mat on this ground that is as soft as sand and walk on it with your (bare) feet." (Ravi) said: Thereupon, the Quraysh spread a blanket. Then everyone walked on the common. The woman saw the footprint of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said, “Mark it to him: He is the closest of you to the holder of rank (i.e., Ibrahim Aleyhis Salam) in terms of similarity.” After that, the Quraysh waited for twenty years or as long as Allah wished. Later, Allah sent Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as a messenger. "
2442-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdul Hamid bin Salama's grandfather, his father and mother came to an agreement to keep him with them and applied to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (for the settlement of their cases). One of the father and mother was a disbeliever and the other a Muslim. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) released him (to choose one of them). He also turned to the unbeliever. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Guide him. ) he prayed. Upon this prayer, he turned to the Muslim. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) decided to give it to a Muslim. "
2443-) - “... From Amr bin Avf (al-Muzeni) (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: It is permissible among Muslims. Unless there is peace who forbids a halal or halal a haram. )
2444-) - “... It was narrated from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): While he was alive (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), there was a man who had a weak mind and vision (protecting his personal interests) and he used to trade. His family members came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlullah! They said, "Forbid him from saving his property." The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) summoned the man and forbade him from trading. (But) man: Messenger of Allah! “I can't help myself from trading,” he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to the man: So when you trade (to the addressee): Take it (or give it and give it) and say there is no cheating (in the religion of Islam). )
2445-) - “... From Muhammad bin Yahya bin Habban (radiy-Allâhu anhum); He said: My grandfather is Münkız bin Amr. He received a head injury (in a war) that reached his brain, and this wound broke his tongue (aggravated). Despite this, he did not give up trading and was constantly deceived (in shopping). (One day) he came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and presented his situation to him. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to him: when you trade. Say, there is no deception (in the religion of Islam). Then you have the option to (return) every property you bought for up to three nights. After (this three-day period), if you consent, keep the property and if you do not desire, return the property to its owner.
2446-) ... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: While he was alive, a disaster struck the fruits that a man bought, and the man owed too much money (to the point that he could not pay). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to the Companions:) give alms to the man. The people also gave alms to him. But the charity given was not enough for his debt. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to the creditors: Take this amount and there is no right for you except this amount. ) commanded. "
2447-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saved Muâz bin Cebeli from his creditors. Then he appointed him as âmil (governor) of Yemen. Thereupon, Muâz said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saved me (from my creditors) in exchange for my property. Then he appointed me (Yemen) governor. "
2448-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (A person who finds the same (as it is) property with a bankrupt person has the right to take that property first compared to other people.)
2449-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If a man sells an item, then he catches up with a bankrupt man (i.e. his customer) with the same item (that is, unchanged) and does not receive anything from the price of the item. man's (right) If the man has received something from the price of the goods, he is the same as the other creditors (that is, he has no right of priority).
2450-) - “... From the judge of Medina (Omar) bin Halde ez-Zuraki (radiyallahu anh); He said: We went to Abu Hurayra about a bankrupt friend of ours (a property in the hands of which he did not pay) (we applied to him). Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) said: Tell me. (issue). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) decreed as follows (a similar issue). If a man dies or goes bankrupt (for which he has not paid the price), the owner of the goods has the right to take his own belongings (from other right holders) first, when he finds the same thing (with him). "
2451-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If a person dies and the property of another man (whom he bought and did not pay the full price of) remains the same, whether the owner has received something from the price of his property or not (anything), it is the same as the other creditors (i.e. there is no right of priority) ) "
2452-) - “... From Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); He said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): Which of the (believers) people is better? he was asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) : good people) are my wives (companions). Then they are the (Tabi) who come right after them. Then, the ones that come right after them are the Tabi'i of the Tabi'un. Later, some people come and the witness of one of them exceeds his oath and his oath exceeds his testimony. ) "
2453-) - “... From Jabir bin Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: Omar bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh) addressed us in Jabiya and said: Just as I was standing among you, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood up among us and said: “My Companions, obey me (i.e., consider your respect for me) regarding the (Natural) people who come right after them, and then (appreciating the value of the Naturals) who follow them. and be respectful to them for my sake). Later (in the generations) lying will spread so much that the man will testify even though he is not asked to testify, and he will take an oath even though he is not offered to take an oath. )
2454-) - “... According to what is reported from Zayd bin Khalid al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh); He heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: The best is the one who performs the duty of witnessing before being asked to testify. )
2455-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he recited the verse: "When believers are in debt to each other for a certain period of time" and finally - (If some of you trust some of you - That is, the debt is deed, witnesses) As for the verse: "Let the trusted (borrower) pay his debt", he said: This verse abrogates the previous one. "
2457-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the following hadith from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): It is not permissible for a Bedouin to testify against a village owner. )
2458-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ruled (the evidence of the case) with a witness (the plaintiff's) oath. "
2459-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) together with a witness, he (the plaintiff) ruled (the substantiation of the case) with his oath. "
2460-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ruled with the oath of a witness and (the plaintiff). "
2461-) - “... According to what is reported from Surrak (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) considered the testimony of a man and the oath of the suitor (that is, the claimant) valid. "
2462-) - “... From Huraym bin Fâtik al-Asadi (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (one day) performed the morning prayer. Then when he came back (from prayer), he stood up and said three times: witnessing on the ground (in terms of his sinfulness) is equivalent to associating partners with Allah. Then he recited the following verse: Beware of giving false witness to Allah, without associating partners with Him. )
2463-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A false witness will not be able to leave his feet (from his place) until (hell) makes fire obligatory.)"
2464-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made it permissible for the people of the Book to testify against each other. "
2465-) - “... According to what is reported from Numan bin Bashir (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He took him and took him to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Messenger of Allah! “I donated it to him,” he said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to him: (Well) did you donate to each of your other children the same amount that you gave to Numan? Bashir said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Then, witness this matter other than me." (Then) He said: (Doesn't it please you that your children are equal in their obedience to you?). Bashir replied: (It pleases). Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: No (do not be unequal in granting to them). "
2466-) - “... According to what is reported from Numan bin Bashir (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He donated a slave to himself and went to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and wanted to witness him (this work). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to Numan's father: Did you donate the like of it to each of his children? When his father said no, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Then take the slave back). "
2467-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas and (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is not permissible to donate something and then return from it. However, the father who donates something to his child is excluded from this provision. (So he can get his grant back.)
2468-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Which one of you should not revoke from his grant, the father of his child (who claims his grant) is excluded from this provision.”
2469-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is not suitable for the benefit of the owner. For, whoever receives a piece of property through a life-long transaction, that property (permanently) belongs to that person.)
2470-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: now his word (he said) will cut off his right to that property. In this respect, that property belongs to the man and his descendants, who are given life by the way of life. ) '..... Zayd bin Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave life to the recipient’s heir (after his death). "
2472-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “There is no suitability for the owner of the property.” For, to whom something is given by the Rukba method, that thing now belongs to him, both in his life and in his death. )
2473-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is valid (permanently) for what is given to him. (The grantor cannot return from this) (Rukba is also valid (continuously) for what is given to him. (The donor cannot return from this). "
2474-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The situation of the person who withdraws the grant is like the situation of a dog. The dog eats and vomits when it is finally full. Then it turns back to vomit and eats it. )
2475-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He is the one who takes it back. It's like eating your vomit. ) "
2476-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A person who turns is like a dog that turns (eats) its vomit. )
2477-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Unless it is given, the man has the right to take back the grant he has given. )
2479-) - “... According to what is reported from Ka'b bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): Hayre (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) took an item of jewelry that was his own to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: I gave it as charity. said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to himself: "It is not permissible for a woman to give alms from her own property. Unless it is her husband's permission. Therefore, did you (your husband) ask Ka'b for permission?). Hayre replied: Yes. After that, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) sent a message to Ka'b bin Malik, Hayre's husband, and asked: Did you allow Hayre to give her own ornaments as charity? Ka'b (radiyallahu anh): After giving his answer, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) accepted the aforementioned ornament from Hayre. "
2480-) - “... It is narrated from Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (to him): do not return to your charity. )
2481-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin al-Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The situation of a person who gives and then returns to his charity is like the situation of a dog that vomits and then eats its vomit. )
2482-) - “... According to what is reported from Umar (bin al-Khattab) (radiy-Allâhu anh): While he was alive, he (a pedestrian mujahid) gave a horse as charity, after a while, the owner of the horse He saw that he wanted to sell the horse at a low price, and then he went to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and asked about the decision of being a customer for the horse. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) also ordered (to Omar): do not buy. "
2483-) - “... According to what is reported from Zubayr bin al-Awwam (radiyallahu anh): He gave a horse called gamr or gamre as charity (to someone), then saw that a male or female foal, said to be from that horse, was offered for sale, and (because it was from his horse) he stopped buying the foal. "
2484-) - “... From Burayda (bin al-Husayb) (radiyallahu anh); He said: The woman came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! I gave a (young) concubine to my mother as charity. My mother also died (and left that concubine), he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to the woman): He rewarded you and gave you back the (concubine) with inheritance.)
2485-) - “... From Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); He said: The man came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! I gave my mother a garden. He said (Afterwards) my mother also died and left no heirs other than me. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said to the man: (Your charity has been fully paid. Your garden has returned to you.)
2486-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): Omar bin al-Khattab's share of the booty hit a field of date palms called Semg in Khaybar. Then Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) went to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said, “The Messenger of Allah! Such a property hit me in Khaybar (from booty) that in my opinion, I have never had a property more precious and beautiful than this. What will you command me? He asked Him for orders (about how he used the land for good). Thereupon, the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to him): You can dedicate the original of the land and give charity for its crops. Ömer said: Then Ömer made the following (conditional foundation) operation on this land: The original of the property cannot be sold, donated or inherited. Umar donated his income to the poor, close relatives of the foundation, slaves who wanted to escape from captivity, mujahids fighting in the way of Allah, travelers and guests. It is not a sin for a person who is the trustee of this property to eat from his income according to custom or to feed it to a friend without accumulating property and without infringing on his property. "
2487-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiyallahu anhuma), (his father) Omar bin al-Khattab: Messenger of Allah! Undoubtedly, I have never acquired a property more beloved to me than the hundred devastated possessions of Khaybar. “I wanted to give it to charity,” he said. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to him): dedicate its origin and dedicate its fruit to the path of Allah! ...
2489-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) he said: It will be paid (to its owner). Minha is also returned (to its owner). )
2490-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: It is paid (to its owner) and the minha is returned to its owner. )
2491-) - “... According to what is reported from Samura (bin Jundub) (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He is responsible for the property (belonging to someone else) until he pays it (to the owner).)
2492-) - “... According to what is narrated from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As (radiyallahu anhuma)): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is no indemnity burden on that person if he is left in custody. )
2493-) - “... According to what is reported from Örve el-Bârıkî (bin ebi'l-Ca'd) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave him a dinar to buy a sheep for himself. He (go) bought two sheep (with that dinar) for the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Then he sold a sheep for a dinar and brought a sheep and a dinar to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) prayed for him to be fruitful. He said: Now, if Örve had bought land, he would have made a profit on it. ..... "From Örve bin Ebi'l-Ca'd al-Bârıkî (radiy-Allâhu anh): A flock of sheep came. told. "
2495-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'It is the delay of the one who is able to pay his debt without any excuse. And when one of you (who is a creditor) is referred to a wealthy and trustworthy person, let him accept the transfer. )
2496-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is cruelty for a person who is able to pay to delay paying his debt without an excuse. And when you are referred to a wealthy and reliable person (while a creditor), accept that you are referred to him. )
2497-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: The debt he promised has been paid, and it is obligatory to pay the debt. )
2498-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: While he was alive (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), a man clung to his debtor to whom he was owed 10 dinars. The debtor said (to his creditor): I have nothing with me (in my property) to give you. The creditor said (to his debtor): By Allah, I will not leave you until you pay my debt or bring me a guarantor. Then he took him to the presence of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to the debtor: How much grace do you want from your creditor?). The debtor said: A month. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Then I will be a guarantor for him.” Then he owes. He came to the presence of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) when he said (or brought his debts). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to him: (Where did you get the gold from?). “From a mine,” the man replied. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: There is no good, and he paid his debt instead. "
2499-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh): funeral. It was brought to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and asked to pray over him. But the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to the Companions: (You) pray on it. Because he has a debt on him. ) commanded. Thereupon, Abu Qatada said, I will guarantee the debt. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (He ordered (?) to pay. Abu Qatada said (I guarantee) to pay. The debt embezzled by the funeral was eighteen or nineteen dirhams. (Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prayed over him.)
2500-) - “... from Imran bin Huzeyfe (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: Maymuna (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the mother of the believers, was in debt. One of his household members (one day) objected to his borrowing, saying to him: Don't do it. Maymuna: (I will continue to do so). Because I heard my Prophet and my faithful friend (Muhammad) (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: There is no Muslim who is in debt with a debt and Allah knows that he wants to pay his debt so that he does not make it easy for that Muslim to pay his debt in this world.)
2501-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Cafer (bin Ebl Talib) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'Unless it is due to something contrary to the will of Allah, Allah is with him until he pays off his debt. ) "
2502-) - “... According to what is reported from Suhaybü'l-Hayr (bin Sinan) (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: appear before him as a thief. ) ...
2504-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Whoever takes the people's property with the intention of destroying it. God destroys it. )
2505-) - “... According to what is narrated from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the mawla (freed slave) of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If his soul leaves his body while he is away from these three things, he will enter Paradise. Arrogance, betrayal of booty and debt. )
2506-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The soul of a believer is in detention due to indebtedness until the debt he has embezzled is paid off. )
2507-) - “... According to what is narrated from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The debt of a person who dies even though he has one dinar or one dirham (debt) will be paid out of his good deeds. There are neither dinars nor dirhams (on the Day of Judgment). )
2509-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If he leaves a property (when he is dying), it is his heirs, and whoever leaves a debt or family members in need (when he dies) it is on me (to pay the debt and take care of his children) and (his job) is on me. belongs. I am closer to the believers (than themselves). )
2510-) - “... According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If he makes it easy for a poor debtor, Allah will grant him ease in this world and in the hereafter. )
2511-) - “... According to what is reported from Burayda al-Aslemi (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If a poor person delays his debt (during the delay), he will receive a reward of charity for that person every day. Whoever delays his debt after its due date (for this period) will be rewarded for charity, equal to the amount of debt, every day.)
2512-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu'l-Yeser (Ka'b bin Amr) (radiyallahu anh), the Companion of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he likes that Allah overshadows him (on the Day of Resurrection) in the shade of the Throne, he should delay the debt of a poor person or let him pay off his debt (partially or completely)."
2513-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A man from the previous ummahs died (and entered Paradise) and then asked him: What (no) did you do (that you entered Paradise)? it was asked. The man - the good he did - (either he remembered or was reminded) also: I used to show tolerance and ease in the dirhams (as my ration) and the cash money (from which I bought it). “I would give grace to the poor debtor,” he replied. That's why Allah forgave him.) ... (Ukba bin Amr al-Ansari, who was there while Huzeyfe (radiy-Allâhu anh) was narrating this hadith) Abu Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh) I heard from, he said. "
2515-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar and Aisha (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he demands his right, he should ask for it as much as possible, avoiding committing sins. ) ..... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to the owner of the right: Take your right by avoiding committing sins as far as possible. ) commanded. "
2517-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The best of you are those who pay their debts in the best way. (Or those who give their debts in the best way are among the best of you.)
2518-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Abi Rebia al-Mahzûmî (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) borrowed thirty or forty thousand (dinars or dirhams) from him on his way to the battle of Hunayn, and when he returned from the war, he borrowed it. After he paid the debt to himself, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to him: May he bestow blessings on your family and property for you. Undoubtedly, the return of the debt is (the debtor) paying it (the creditor) in full and thanking him. )
2520-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Bedouin came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and asked for what was in the hands of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He was tough on her. He even said to her: If you don't pay (or: Except when you pay my debt), I'll press you. Thereupon, the Companions scolded (that rude) Bedouin and said (to him): Do you know (do you) know who you are talking to? they said. The Bedouin said: Surely I want my right. After that, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to his Companions): Am I not with the owner of the right? You should have.
2521-) - “... According to what is reported from Ash-Sherid (bin Suveyd es-Sakafi) (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The person who can afford to pay delays paying his debt (by his creditor) makes it lawful to complain and punish. ) "
2522-) - “... From El-Hirmas bin Habîb's grandfather (radiy-Allâhu anhum); He said: I (captured) a debtor and took him to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: Do not follow me. Then, at the end of the day, he stopped by me and said: Aha bani Tamim! What did your prisoner do? (I mean, did he pay his debt?) he said. "
2523-) - “... According to what is reported from Ka'b bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): (One day) in the Masjid an-Nabawi (Abdullah) he asked bin Abi Hadred (al-Aslemi) to pay his debt ( and there was a back and forth conversation between them), even their voices got louder, and finally, even though the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was at his house, he heard their voices and thereupon he visited them and said: Ka'b. Say: I am at your service, O Messenger of Allah! he replied. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to him: “Leave this and that of the (amount)” and marked half of the ration with his blessed hand. Ka'b said: (that is, I left half of what I received), and (then) the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (to the debtor): (Get up and pay this (that is, the remainder).) "
2524-) - “... From Kays bin Rumi; He said: bin Üzünân loaned Alkame (bin Kays bin Abdulah) a thousand dirhams until his allowance was received. Then, when Alkame's allowance came out, Solomon asked him for what he would get and pressed him. Thereupon, Alkame paid his debt. (But) Alkame seemed angry; stopped for a few months. Then he went to Solomon and said: Lend me a thousand dirhams until my allowance comes out. Solomon said: Well, gladly (after saying to his family) O Umme Utba! “Bring the sealed pouch that was with you,” he said. Thereupon, Umm Utbe brought the pouch. Solomon (to me): Know that: I swear by Allah, this (money) is definitely the dirhams you paid me. He said, “I have not changed (used) a single dirham from it. (On this) Alkame: God bless your father. Then what was the reason for pressing me (for the collection of your receivables)? said. When Sulayman said, "The reason is (hadith) that I heard from you," Alkame asked: "What did you hear from me? You have narrated that the Prophet said: There is no Muslim who lends something to a Muslim twice, so that his behavior is not like giving that thing as charity once.) Ibn Mas'ud narrated it to me, he said. "
2525-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: On the night I was brought out, on the gate of Paradise, "There is ten times as much (reward) in return for charity. I saw that it was written: "There is eighteen times the reward for the debt." Thereupon, Gabriel asked: What is the wisdom behind giving superiority over charity? I asked. Gabriel said: A person who asks for alms (sometimes) begs when he has (something) with him. But whoever wants a loan, wants to borrow only out of necessity.)
2526-) - “... From Yahya bin Abi Ishaq al-Hunai; He said: I asked Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): A man from us (religion) lends money to his brother (i.e., he gives a piece of wealth to get the like of it back). Then the buyer gives a gift to the lender? Anas said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When a person who gives a loan of a property and then buys it gives a gift to the giver or wants to get him on his mount, do not get on that mount and should not accept that gift. Unless this kind of business took place between them before the loan business. )
2527-) - “... According to what is reported from Sa'd bin al-Atval (radiyallahu anh), he died, left three hundred dirhams (property) and children in need of care. (Sa'd said:) Then I wanted to spend this money on the maintenance of my brother's children. But the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to me): Your (deceased) brother was imprisoned because of his debt. Now you pay your debt instead of him). Sa'd said: Messenger of Allah! I paid his debt instead. I did not pay two dinars that only one woman could claim and testify. said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (to Sa'd): Give the woman (what she claims). Because the woman is undoubtedly the one who tells the truth (or deserves it) he said. "
2528-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (bin Amr bin al-Haram) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (Abdullah) left the debt of thirty vesk (dried dates) on his neck, which a Jewish man (creditor) had, and died. he was martyred (martyred). Although Jabir bin Abdillah requested from the Jew to delay the debt, the Jew refused to grant him grace. Thereupon, Jabir appealed to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and asked him to meet with a Jew and mediate for him. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) went to Jabir and offered to the Jew to take the fruit of the date palm in return for the debt on his neck. But (since there are few dates in the date palm), the Jew refused to do so. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) spoke (again) with the Jew. (He asked Jabir to give grace) The Jew also did not accept to delay the debt. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) entered Jabir's palm grove and after wandering around in it, he said to Jabir: Collect the dates for the Jew and pay his debt in full. After Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) returned (from the palm tree), Jabir also collected thirty vesk dates for the Jew, and twelve vesk was increased for him. Then Jabir went to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to inform him of what had happened. But he could not find the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). When Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) returned (from the place where he had gone), Jabir went to him, informed him that the Jew had paid his debt in full, and that there had been twelve liens increased. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Jabir: Inform Umar bin al-Khattab about the situation; Jabir also went to Umar (radiyallahu anh) and informed him. Umar said to Jabir: When the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) was wandering around the date palm, I knew for sure that Allah would certainly bless the date palm. )
2529-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When the debtor dies, his debt will be collected from him on the Day of Judgment. However, a person (Muslim) who borrows money for three reasons is excluded from this provision: A man's strength weakens in the way of Allah (in war), and therefore, by borrowing he gets stronger against the enemy of Allah and his own enemy. can't find anything else. Also, a man is afraid that his soul will sin because of being single, so he gets married to protect his religion. Undoubtedly, Allahu ta'ala will pay their debts instead of them on the Day of Judgment. ) "
2530-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) bought an amount of corn (barley) from a Jew (named Abu'ş-Şahin) and pledged his armor to him. "
2531-) - “... from Enes (bin Malik) (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) pawned his (iron) armor with a Jew (named Abu'ş-Şahin) in Medina-i Münevvere and bought barley from him for his family members. "
2532-) - “... From Esma bint-i Yazid (bin Seken) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) died while his armor was held as a hostage with a Jew in exchange for some grain. "
2533-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) died while his armor was held in pledge with a Jew for thirty hours of barley.
2534-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “When an animal is taken as a hostage, it can be ridden (in return for feeding it). When the milking animal is also held hostage, its milk is drunk (in exchange for feed). The alimony of a pledged animal is wajib on a person who rides (it) and drinks (its milk).
2535-) - “... Narrated by Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): (The pledge can be taken back (by payment of the debt).) "
2536-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There are (class of people) who on the Day of Judgment I will be their enemy. And whoever I am against, I will defeat him on the Day of Resurrection: (First) he who makes a promise to me (by mentioning my name) and then breaks his covenant. (The second) is the one who sells a free person (as a slave) and eats it. (Thirdly) he is a man who hires a worker and does not give his full wage.)
2537-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Pay the wages before the sweat dries up. ) "
2538-) - “... From Utbe bin an-Nüdder (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He recited the chapter of Tasinmim (Qasas). Finally, when he came to the story of Moses (aid verses), he said: (Aleyhisselam) agreed to work as a worker (with Shuayb) for eight or ten years in return for getting married (with Shuayb's daughter) and having his stomach fed. )
2539-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: I grew up orphan, I migrated as a poor. I was the worker of the Ghazvan girl (Büsre) in return for feeding my stomach and watching my feet (sometimes allow me to ride a horse to rest) (on the journey). I used to gather wood for them when they stopped (somewhere on the journey). I would encourage their camels to walk fast by singing for them when they rode on riding horses. Praise be to Allah, who made the religion of Islam a system and made Abu Huraira an Imam (amir-Vali). "
2540-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: His Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) had a need for food and material deprivation (for a while). Then Ali (radiyallahu anh) became aware of this situation. Thereupon, Ali went out and sought a job to work and give food to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). He came to the garden of a Jewish man and drew him seventeen buckets of water for each bucket of dried dates. And the Jew chose seventeen of his dried dates, called ajve (good type) dried dates for him. He brought it to the Prophet of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). "
2541-) - “... from Ali (radiyallahu anh); He said: I used to take out a bucket of water in exchange for one dried date and stipulate that the dates should be dry and good. "
2542-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): He said: A man from the Ansar came and said: Messenger of Allah! I see your color has changed, what happened? said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Thereupon, the Ansari person immediately went to the place where his belongings were. He could not find anything (food) among his belongings. Then he went out in search of (food). He met a Jew who was watering a date grove. Ansari, to the Jew: Shall I water the date palm? said. The Jew said: (water) Ansari said: A bucket (water) with one dried date (wage). And the Ansari stipulated not to buy dates that were neither dark nor hard, dry nor bad, and not to take dates other than good dried dates. Then he took out water for two hours (dry dates) and brought the dates he had bought to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). "
2543-) - “... From Rafi bin Hadic (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade munakala and muzabene and said: Three people can cultivate the land: A man who has land cultivates his own land. A man who is given a piece of land by way of minha (that is, free use) cultivates this land given to him. The man who rents a land with gold or silver (can sow it))
2544-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) said: we would not see Finally, we heard from Rafi' bin Hadic that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade it. Now we abandoned this treatment because of Rafi's word. "
2545-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: Some of our men had more land than they needed. They used to rent this land (crops) for one-third and one-fourth. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he has more land than he needs, he should decrease it or let his (religion) brother cultivate it (for free). "
2546-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he has land, he should cut it off or let his (religion) brother plant it (without compensation). If he refuses (to let his brother cultivate it for free), let him keep his land (not rent it out).
2547-) - “... According to what is reported from Nafi (radiy-Allâhu anhum) of Ibn-i Omar (his maula), Nafi said: bin Omar was renting out a land that belonged to him to be cultivated. Then (one day) a man came to him and said; Rafi bin Hadic informed him that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade leasing the fields for cultivation). Thereupon, Ibn-i Umar (to Rafi) went. I also went with him. Finally, he came to Rafi's in al-Belât (between Masjid an-Nabawi and the bazaar) and asked him about it. Rafi also informed him that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade leasing the fields (for planting). Thereupon, Abdullah (bin Omar) gave up leasing his fields. "
2548-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) delivered a sermon to us, and said: If he has land, he should cut it (for himself) or cultivate it (for his brother in religion free of charge). Don't rent it out. )
2549-) ... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade Muhakala. is the lease of land (for cultivation).
2550-) - “... According to the narration of Tawus'dar: When Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma) heard that the people were talking a lot (back and forth) about renting the land: Subhanallah. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) only said: "One of you should have given his land to his (religion) brother temporarily and for profit") and he did not forbid leasing the land. " '..... (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is said that one of you should give his land (religion) to his brother (to run it) temporarily and without benefit. It is better for him to receive this and that (in return for operating a good) land (that is, a certain fee). "
2552-) - “... According to what is reported from Hanzala bin Kays (al-Ansari) (radiyallahu anh): I asked Rafi bin Hadid (the ruling of leasing the land for gold and silver). Rafi said: We (the taxpayer) were renting out our land (saying): The (product) of this continent belongs to you and the (revenues) of this piece belongs to me. Then we were prohibited from renting out our land in return for the produce it would produce. (But) we are not barred from renting out our land for silver (and gold). "
2553-) - “... According to what is reported from Rafi bin Hadic (radiyallahu anh), his uncle Zuhayr (radiyallahu anh) said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) prevented us from doing something that was easy for us. (Rafi said) And I said: What (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said is definitely true. Then (my uncle) Zuhayr said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked (us: what are you doing?). We said: We are renting out one third of our land (crop), one fourth of it, and we are renting out wheat and barley in exchange for vesk (called scales). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do not do it. You can either plant them yourself or (give others free of charge) to plant them), he said. "
2554-) - “... From Usayd bin Zuhayr (radiy-Allâhu anh), nephew of Rafi bin Hadic; He said: When his land was more than his need, he would give it (rent) one-third, one-fourth and half of its crop, and stipulated that three shares of the crop growing on the sides of the water streams, kusara (potlets) and the crop of the wet part of the field (to be given to him). Livelihood at that time was difficult. A farmer could also benefit from it by working with iron in the field and agricultural tools that Allah wished. (One day) Rafi bin Hadid came to us and said: No doubt, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade anything that would benefit you. Obedience to Allah and to His Messenger is more beneficial for you. Undoubtedly, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade you from the right treatment and says: If his land is more than his need, he should give it (meat for agriculture) to his brother (free of charge). He said (that is, let his brother temporarily plant him and benefit) or (leave his field uncultivated). "
2555-) - “... from Urwa bin Zubayr (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: bin Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: May Allah forgive Rafi bin Hadic. By Allah, I know the hadith (of Muzaraa) better than him. Two men who had fought (because of muzara') came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet said: "If you are like this, do not rent out the fields." Rafi also heard the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (alone) order: (Do not rent out the fields) (he did not hear the precedent of the event). "
2556-) - “... from Amr bin Dinar; He said: To Taus; O Ebâ Abdirrahman! I wish you'd quit that combat job. Because they say that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade it, I said. Tawus (radiyallahu anh): Amr! I give (my land) by helping (convenience) to people (to whom I rent my land). Undoubtedly, Muaz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh) was with us (that is, when he was governor in Yemen) and kept the people on the battle process (that is, he gave permission and supported it). And the person (i.e., Ibn 'Abbas) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), who was more aware of (the decree of communication) than anyone else, informed me that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did not forbid the operation of combat, but he said that one of you should give his land to his (religion) brother free of charge for agriculture. It is better for him to give a certain amount of money in return for that land.) "... He rented the land (crop) for one-third and one-fourth of the land (from that period) during the reigns of ', Ömer and Osman (radiy-Allâhu anhüm).
2559-) - “... From Rafi bin Hadic (radiyallahu anh); He said: We used to discuss when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was alive (that is, we used to rent our fields for a certain fee.) According to what Rafi said, one of his uncles came to them and said: If he has a land, let him not rent it for a certain amount of grain. )
2561-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) treated them (musâkat and muzâraa) with half of the fruit and crops that came out (from the land of Khaybar) to belong to the people of Khaybar (in Jew). "
2562-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave the date groves and lands of Khaybar to the people of Khaybar (in the manner of dealing with musakat and muzara) in exchange for the fruit and half of the crop to be taken from it. "
2563-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: When he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) conquered Khaybar, he gave this place (that is, the date palm groves and fields of this place to the local people) in return for half of the fruit and crops (musakat and muzaraa). "
2564-) - “... From Talha bin Ubeydullah (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: We passed by a date orchard with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a group fertilizing date palm trees and asked: What are the men doing? (Those with them) said: They take (a piece of) the male date tree (flower) and put (fertilize) the female date tree (flower). Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I do not think it will be of any use). This word of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) reached them. They also abandoned this work and descended from the date palm trees. When the situation reached the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) he said: If suggestion (fertilization) provides a benefit, do it. Because I'm only a human like you. Surely, zan (gâh) does not hit, and (gâh) does. And yet me. - When I say something to you by saying, "Allah has said", I will not be mistaken in the name of Allah (or) but I will not be mistaken in the name of Allah in the word I said to you by saying: "Allah has said". )
2565-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (one day) heard some voices and said: What is the sound? Those (near Him) are: The date palm trees (his voice). “They fertilize them,” they replied. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It would have been good if they had not done it (in my opinion, its fruit). ) commanded. Thereupon, they did not do the fertilization that year. However, the crop (given by the trees) became şiys (i.e., common date dates with an unconsolidated kernel). The Companions (this situation) told the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If something you want is out of your business, your knowledge about it is (basic). If that thing is one of the works of your religion (its ruling) belongs to me. )
2566-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: They are partners in three things: water, grass and fire. The price of this (received by selling) is also haram. ) Said said: The purpose of water is running water. "
2567-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There are things that cannot be ignored: water, grass and fire. )
2568-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said (to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) one day: Rasûlallah! What is not halal to refuse? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) replied, “Salt and fire,” Aisha said: I said: Rasûlallah! (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) We understood (not withholding) water. So what about salt and fire? I asked. Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (addressing me): Humayrâ! Whoever gives a piece of fire, it will be as if he has given charity for the whole meal cooked by that fire. And whoever gives a piece of salt, it will be as if he has given alms for the whole meal that salt has made beautiful. Whoever gives a drink of water to a Muslim in a place where there is water, it will be as if he freed a raqaba (slave - concubine), and whoever gives a drink of water to a Muslim in a place where there is no water, it will be as if he had revived him. )
2569-) - “... According to what is reported from Ebyad bin Hammâl (radiy-Allâhu anh): He wanted the salt plate called the Me'rib Sheddi Salt (from the Messenger of Allah (PBUH) by donation or sale). (And the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave this salt plate to him. Then, al-Akra' bin Habis et-Tamîmî (radiy-Allâhu anh) went to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlullah! During the period of ignorance (that is, before I became a Muslim), I reached that salt (I saw). He is in a land without salt and water. Whoever gets there gets salt. And that salt is like uninterrupted water (it is always present), he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked Ebyad bin Hammal to cancel the allocation agreement with this salt. Ebyad bin Hammal said (to the Messenger of Allah) : I accepted your request to cancel the allocation agreement so that you (by me) make the salt flat a charity. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: It is a charity from you (with salt) and it is equal to water that continues uninterruptedly. Whoever reaches it can take it (its salt) (that is, it is the common property of Muslims). Ferec (bin Saîd) : With that salt, he is still in that situation today. He said, Whoever reaches it will take it (n salt). He said: When bin Hammal accepted the request of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) to cancel the contract for the allocation of salt, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) gave him a land in Jurf-i Murad and date trees instead. . "
2570-) - “... It is reported that when Iyâs bin Abd (Ebû Avf) al-Muzeni (radiy-Allâhu anh) saw some people selling water, he said (to them): Do not sell. Because I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) that he forbade the sale of (excessive) water. "
2571-) - “... From Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiyallahu anhu): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade selling excess water. "
2573-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The excess water cannot be withheld (from someone else), and the excess water of the well (out of need) cannot be withheld (from anyone). )
2574-) - “... From Abdullah bin Zubayr (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: A man from the Ansar complained to Zubayr (bin al-Awam) in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about the waterways where they irrigate the date palms in the Harra region and about the water watch. (The water passing through these arcs first stopped by Zubayr's date groves. Then it reached the complainant's field. Once when he was holding water to water the Zubayr date grove) Ansari said (to Zubayr): Let it pass (to us). But Zubayr refused to leave the water without watering his own palm grove and to give him his watch. Then, the parties settled in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to Zubayr): Zubayr! He said, "Water your date palm, then release the water to your neighbor." Thereupon, Ansari became enraged and . Messenger of Allah! Because Aunt Zubayr is his son? said. (He wanted to accuse him of bias. The color of the blessed face of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) who was saddened by this statement) changed color. (Because the complainant had disrespected him by accusing him of partiality.) Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Zubayr! Water (your date palm), then trap the water until it reaches the roots of the date palms—or the wall—(Use your water right)) He commanded. said: (Describing this event) Zubayr (radiyallahu anh); By Allah, I think that the following verse was revealed about this event: (My Messenger)! By your Lord, they (that is, those who say you are believers) will not be believers unless they make you a judge in the dispute between them and then surrender with complete surrender, without any difficulty in their souls, from your judgment.)" (Nisa: 65)
2575-) - “... From Sa'lebe bin Abi Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wasallam) He decreed the following regarding the Mehzûr (named creek) water (the order of irrigation of the lands): (His land) is above The person who owns (the land) is above the person below (that is, he has the right of priority). Then he releases the water to the one below him. "
2576-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma): (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) about the water of the Mehzûr (named creek) (who owns land) He decreed that the person would trap the water up to the heels of the feet and then release the water. "
2577-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) decreed the following about watering the date palms with running water: It is watered before the palm grove) and the water is left until it reaches the heels of the feet (in the upper palm grove). Then the water is released into the lower (palm garden) behind it. This is (done) until the gardens are finished or the water runs out. "
2578-) - “... According to what is reported from Kathir bin Abdillah bin Amr bin Avf al-Muzeni's grandfather (Amr bin Avf al-Muzeni) (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is watered before (other animals) on the irrigation day. )
2579-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Everything that was divided in his time is (valid) according to the way it was divided. Everything that was divided in the Islamic era is also (valid) on the division (rules) of Islam. ) "
2580-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mugaffel (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he digs a well (in an unclaimed land), his maşiyesi (sheep, goats, cattle and cattle) forty cubits (around the well) as a bed for a herd of camels) is his (right). )
2581-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-z Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: His harîmi is as much as the length of the rope (used for drawing water from it) is the place around it.
2582-) - “... from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: There was one, two or three date palm trees in his garden (near another man) and then (the garden owners and the man) disagreed about the rights of these trees. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) decreed as follows: The circumference of each tree from the land on which it is located is the sanctuary of that tree. "
2583-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (The harem of a date tree is as long as its branches.) "
2584-) - “... From Said bin Hureys (radiy-Allâhu anh). He said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he said: If he sells a house or a land and does not put the price of it like it, then that person deserves that the price (he receives) will not be blessed for him. ) "...
2586-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe bin al-Yemân (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, he said: If he sells a house and does not put the price in return for it, the price of the house ) he will not be blessed for anyone.) "
2587-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiyallahu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A person who owns a garden or land cannot sell it (to someone else) unless he offers it (to buy) to his partner. )
2588-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Anyone who has a plot of land and wants to sell it should offer it to his neighbour. )
2589-) - "... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiyallahu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said, "When the path of the stream is one, even if the neighbor (who owns someone) is not ready, he has the most right to the shuf'a of akar. The neighbor's right to suf'a is expected (by the customer to use it). )
2590-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Rafi' (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (in terms of shuf'a), sekabina (that is, the adjacent aqara) has the right first of all, )
2591-) - “... From Sharid bin Suveyd (radiyallahu anh): O Messenger of Allah! It is a land (there is). No one has a stake in it. However, I said that he has (right) neighborliness (that is, does he have the right to suf in this?). He said: First of all, he has the right to the sekabine (that is, the adjacent akara). "
2592-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ruled with suffa about the undivided (immovable) property (between the partners). When the borders (the immovable property is divided and each share belongs to each share), there is no longer any suffa (right). ... (Râvî) Abu Asim said: Said bin al-Museyyeb (the narration from Abu Huraira) is mursal. Abu Salama's narration from Abu Hurayra is also muttasil. "
2594-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Rafi' (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Whatsoever happens to the next (in terms of immovable property) (that is, whether that property is more or less), first of all, he has a right. )
2595-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) put the right of suffus only on all undivided (immovable) property. When the limits (for each share by dividing) are set and the roads are determined and distinguished, there is no more (right) shuf'a. "
2596-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (His right) is like untying the rope on which a camel is tied. )
2597-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "When the partner buys the share of a third partner before the other partner (by way of circumcision), the other partner has no right of preemption against the partner who bought the share. A partner who has not reached the age of puberty and a partner who is absent, that is, a partner who is not present, does not have the right to preemption.)
2598-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin al-Shihhir (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Its branch (lost animal or any kind of lost property) is the flame of fire. )
2599-) - “... From Al-Münzir bin Cerîr (bin Abdullah al-Becelî) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: I was with my father (Cerir bin Abdullah) in al-Bawazic. (My father's) herd of cattle came (from the pasture) towards evening. My father saw a strange cattle (in the herd) and said: What is this? she asked. The people there replied: It is a cattle joining a herd of cattle. Al-Mundhir said: So my father ordered. That cattle was chased until it disappeared from the herd. Then my father said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: Only a perverted person mixes up (that is, a lost animal) with his own property. )
2600-) - “... According to what is reported from Zayd bin Khalid al-Juheni (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was once asked about the verdict of the lost camel. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) became enraged, his cheeks turned red, and in response he said; 3&ti& what? Along with it are the feet (withstanding the long journey) and the waterskin (on the belly). He (the animal) reaches the water and eats pure long grass until its owner comes across it. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was also asked about the verdict of losing a sheep or goat. In response to this: take. Because it (animal) is either for you, your brother or your wolf). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was also asked about the verdict of lukata. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah said: Get to know your vocabulary and mouth ties well and proclaim lukea for one year. If he is told (by someone) his qualifications in an evidential way (give it to him). Thus, if his qualifications are not explained (that is, if the owner does not come out), add him to your own property.)
2601-) - “... According to what is reported from Iyaz bin Himar (radiy-Allâhu anh)- The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he finds a luka (lost property), he should hold one or two witnesses. Then he should not change the property he found or hide (the lost property he found). If the owner of the lukata comes, first of all he belongs to it, if the owner does not come (that is, he does not come out). . . . . . . . ".. from Suveyd bin Gafele (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I once went to war with Zayd bin Suhan and Salman bin Rebia (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ). Finally, when we were in hm al-Uzeyb, I had a lost whip. I found it on the ground and took it. Zayd and Salman said to me: Throw it away. He said: You hit it, when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was alive, I found a hundred dinars on the ground and took them and all Mi^Tnu*?** satfdm to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)**^ That: the year ( I declared it for one year. But I did not come across anyone who knew about it. Then I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). He said: announce for another year). I declared one more year, but I could not find anyone who knew about it (when he presented the situation again) The Messenger of God said: Remember (memory). Then proclaim one (more) year. If someone who knows this comes (describes the number, pouch and mouth tie correctly), give the pouch to him. If someone who knows this does not come, it is like the way of your property (that is, it belongs to you.)) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked. Hıfze (bell) its vıâ (the envelope it contains such as coffee, bag, vocabulary, purse and bag). Then eat it. If the owner (with proving information) comes later, pay it to him. ) "
2604-) - “... According to what is reported from al-Miqdād bin Amr (radiy-Allāhu anh): One day he went to the vicinity of al-Bakī cemetery to break his ablution. The people (because they ate little and dry food at that time) would go to perform ablution only once in two or three days and would do ablution like a camel's hair. Then he himself went into a ruin, and while he was sitting to do his defecation, he saw that a male big mouse took a dinar out of a hole in the ground. The mouse went into that hole and took out another dinar. Then he took out seventeen dinars. He then pulled the edge of a red piece of cloth out of the hole. He said: Then I pulled that piece of cloth. I found a dinar in it (that is, the cloth). Eighteen dinars were completed. I came out with these (destroyed) and brought them before the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and presented the situation to him. Then: Take their alms (i.e., the right of humus—one-fifth). I said, O Messenger of Allah. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to me: "Take these. There is no charity (khums) in this. May Allah bless you with this." Then he said: (Could you have pulled them out of the hole with your hand?). I said: I swear by Allah, Who has honored you with the truth (religion), no (I did not put my hand in a hole). He said: "The end of these dinars did not come until Mikdâd died. (So it's not over.)
2605-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There is humus (that is, in the treasure). ) "
2606-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There is humus (that is, in the treasure). )
2607-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There was a man who bought a stream (house) in the previous (ummat) communities. He found a gold-filled curre (cube or jug) in a stream (which he had bought). Thereupon he said (to the seller): I bought land from you, not gold from you. And the man (the seller) said (to the buyer): Surely, I have sold you this land, along with what is in it. Then the seller and the buyer appealed to a (third) man and became a judge. The man who was referred to said: Do you have a son and a daughter? she asked. One of them (the buyer) said: I have a son. The other (salesman) said: I have a daughter. The man who was applied to: In that case, marry the girl to the boy. He decreed that the boy and girl should spend this gold on themselves and give alms. ) "
2608-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sold the slave (that is, the man who was emancipated) sold. "
2609-) - “... from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: A man (named Abu Mazkûr) freed a slave (named Yaqub) by means of a precautionary contract (because you were freed after I died). The man had no other property than this slave. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sold this slave (while the owner was alive) (whose emancipation was suggested to the death of the owner). A man named Ibn al-Nahham (Nuaym) from the Banu Adi tribe bought this slave. (The Messenger of God gave the price of the slave to its owner.)
2610-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (that is, a slave whose emancipation is tied to the death of his owner) is from thuluth (that is, one-third of the owner's estate).
2611-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If a man's concubine gives birth to a child by his own, that concubine will be freed after the death of that man. . ) "From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: In the presence of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (his son) Ibrahim’s mother (and the Messenger of God’s (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)’, Mariya, the concubine ) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) was mentioned. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) freed his son (Ibrahim).
2613-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) among us, when he was alive, we used to sell our concubines, the mothers of our children. We wouldn't mind that. "
2615-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "A slave is made to have an epitaph for a hundred okkas, and if he pays all of it and does not pay only ten okkas, his slavery continues. )
2616-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), one of the wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (addressing him) said: When one of the (women) has a paid slave and the slave has the amount (money) to pay, the mistress (woman) of the slave should hide from him (that is, the slave should not enter her room).
2617-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), who made a contract with her masters to free her in order to pay nine okka (i.e. 360 dirhams) When she was a concubine, she came to her (that is, to Aisha). I will pay you (I mean, I will buy you from them with this amount and then I will free you), he said. The narrator said: Berire went to their master and explained the situation to them. But they did not accept (this offer), unless Aisha stipulated the right of custody of Barira to them. Then Aisha presented this situation to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Aisha: “Buy Barira from them and then free them. Because the right of guardianship belongs to the one who frees them. The condition they set is invalid.” The narrator said: Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) stood up and delivered a sermon to the people (going to the mosque). After praising and praising Allah, he said: What is the matter with certain men, that they stipulate certain conditions that are not in the Book of Allah. Every condition that is not in Allah's book (and contrary to it) is invalid even if there are a hundred conditions. The truth is God's book and the strong is God's condition. The right of velâ also belongs to the one who frees (the slave - the concubine). )
2618-) - “... from Ka'b bin Murra (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he said: Whoever frees a Muslim slave, that slave will be a means of salvation from (hell) fire. Every bone of the freer replaces every bone of the freed. And whoever (Muslims) frees two Muslim concubines, those two concubines will be a means of salvation from (hell) fire. Each bone of the freer replaces the two bones of the two freed women. ) . From Abu Zat (radiyallahu anh). He said: (Once, to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); O Messenger of Allah, which of the slaves and concubines to free) is more virtuous (good)? I asked. They said: Next to it is the most delicious (the most desirable) and the most expensive.
2620-) - “... According to what is reported from Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he has a private relative, that relative (slave - concubine) is free. )
2621-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “If he has a private relative, that relative (slave - concubine) is free. )
2622-) - “... From Safine Abu Abdirrahman (radiyallahu anh); She said: Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), one of the wives of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) freed me and stipulated that I should serve the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as long as he lived. "
2623-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he frees his share in a mamluk (that is, a slave), it is wâjib to free him (from slavery) from his own property if he owns it (enough for the remaining share of the mamluk). If he does not have any property, the slave is offered to work in jobs within his power in order to gain the value of his (remaining share).
2624-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma) is narrated; Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If they free their share in a slave and the slave has enough property for his (remaining) share, a fair value is appraised for the slave's remaining share and that person gives the (value) of the shares of his partners. The slave is also freed in his name. If that person does not have enough property to meet the shares of his partners, he will be freed from the share he has freed from the slave. )
2625-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullab) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If the slave has his property and frees him, the property of the slave will belong to that person. Unless the master (slave) gives his property so that the property will be his. ) he narrated the expression that the master should exempt the slave's property (that is, donate the slave's property to the slave). ". (Abdullah) Ibn Mas'ud's freedman, Umayr (radiy-Allâhu anh), is narrated, Abdullah (Ibn Mas'ud) said to him: Umayr! Surely, you freed me with an easy release. (Because) I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) saying: If a man frees a slave and does not mention his (slave) property, that property belongs to him. (as much as) " ... The author states that this hadith was transmitted to him with a partially different second year. "
2629-) - “... According to what is reported from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): - She had a slave and a concubine who were in the position of husband. He said: Messenger of Allah, I want to free them. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If you want to free both of them, free the man before the woman. "
2630-) - “... From Abu Umama (Es'ad) bin Sahl bin Hunayf (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: Osman bin Affan (radiy-Allâhu anh) once looked at them from above (when he was locked up in his house because of seditionists) and heard that they were talking about killing (himself). Then he said (to us): Surely, they threaten me with death. Why are they killing me? However, I told the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that it is not permissible to shed blood (for any crime) of any Muslim other than three (offences): A man who committed adultery and was punished, even though he had sexual intercourse in a valid marriage, is wrongfully punished. I heard the man who killed a human being and the man who apostatized after becoming a Muslim (they are killed). I swear by Allah that I did not commit adultery neither during the period of ignorance nor during the period of Islam. I have not killed any Muslim and I have not left the religion since I became a Muslim. "
2631-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “There is no Muslim person who testifies that there is no god but that I am the Messenger of Allah. It is not halal to (shed) blood. However, the blood of one of these three persons will be lawful: the murderer (who will be killed) in return for the victim's life, the adulterous sayyib (that is, the person who has had sexual intercourse in a valid marriage) and the person who left the Islamic community and abandoned his religion. )
2632-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever changes his (true) religion, kill him immediately.)
2633-) - “... According to what is reported from Behz bin Hakim's grandfather (Muaviye bin Hayda) (radiy-Allâhu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'Allah will not accept any of his deeds until he leaves the disbelievers and joins the Muslims (the community) of a polytheist who associates partners (with Allah). )
2634-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: executing one of his hadd (punishments) directly is better than the rain that falls for forty nights (during) in the lands of Allah Azza wa Jalla. )
2635-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A (divine) hadd (punishment) applied on his face is better for those on the ground than forty days of rain. )
2636-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he denies a verse from the Qur'an, it will certainly be lawful to stab him (killing him). Who says: There is no god but Allah, He is One, He has no partner. No doubt, if he says that Muhammad (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) is Allah's servant and Messenger, no one can touch him anymore. Unless he (for committing a crime) suffers a hadd (punishment) and his punishment is executed. ) '..... According to what is reported from Ubade bin es-Sâmid (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Muslims) Execute the hadd (punishments) of Allah directly (to you in kinship or strength or weakness) against everyone who is close or far away. Do not let the condemnation of any condemner keep you in the matter of Allah (implementing His decree) (ie. )) "
2638-) - “... From Atiyye al-Kurazi (radiyallahu anh); He said: On the day of his (war) we (captured by Muslims) were presented to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). (Our situation was checked. ) Then the male (captives) who had hair in his private parts were killed, and the boy (captives) without hair in his private parts were released (that is, they were not killed). I was among those who did not grow hair in their private parts. That's why I was released. "
2639-) - “... According to what is reported from Atiyye al-Kurazi (radiyallahu anh), he said: Muslims!) Be aware that I am among you. "
2640-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: On the day of the (war) when I was fourteen years old, I was presented to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) (I mean, my situation was reviewed by him). He did not give me permission. (I mean, he didn't allow me to join the war because I was not mature in age.) On the day of the Trench (war), when I was fifteen years old, I was presented to Him. This time he gave me permission. (So he let me join the war.)
2641-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If a Muslim covers his (his brother's) faults, Allah will cover his faults in this world and in the hereafter." )
2642-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Expel (punishment) as long as you can (that is, unless the crime is proven). )
2643-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If a Muslim covers his personal faults, Allah will cover his faults on the Day of Judgment. Whoever exposes his Muslim brother's personal faults, Allah will reveal his fault by disgracing him even in his house because of his fault. )
2644-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The situation of the woman (named Fatima) who stole from the Mahzum tribe really upset the Quraysh (tribe), and put her in agony. Thereupon, they were saying: Who can talk to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) about the woman's (forgiveness or ransoming of the punishment of cutting off her hand)? (After discussing this among themselves) they said: Who else would dare to present this except Usama bin Zayd (bin al-Harisa) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), the beloved of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? (Then the Quraysh discussed the matter with Usama and asked him to act as an intermediary.) Usama also talked to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) (for the woman's pardon or the conversion of her punishment into money). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) condemned him, saying to Usama: “Are you acting as an intermediary about (abandoning) one of the hadd (punishment) that Allah (imposed)?”. Then he got up and addressed (the people) aloud: People! Those before you - the sons of Israel - were destroyed because they acted like this: They would leave him when the strong man stole among themselves, but they would impose hadd (punishment) against him when the weak man stole in their midst. (That is, they would cut off his hand.) By Allah, if Muhammad's daughter Fatima had stolen it, I would certainly have cut off her (my daughter Fatima)'s hand, ) he said. Sheikh) Mohammed bin Rumh said: I am from al-Leys bin Sa'd; I heard him say his word that Allah (Azza wa Jalla) undoubtedly protected Fatima, the daughter of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), from stealing. Every Muslim should say this. "
2645-) - “... From Mas'ud bin al-Aswad (radiyallahu anh); He said: When a woman (named Fatima) stole that velvet from the house of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), we saw it as a big event. This was a woman from the Quraysh (tribe). We went to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and talked to him (with the thought of not harming the tribe of Quraysh) and said: We will give a ransom of forty okka (gold or silver) to save this woman. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam):. It is better for him to be cleaned by Then, when we heard the gentleness of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), we went to Usama and said: Talk to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) saw this, he stood up to address this and said: What is your insistence on one of the punishments (abandonment) of Allah Azza wa Jalla, who is obligatory on one of his concubines? I swear by (Allah) in whose hand is Muhammad's soul (soul, power) that had the Prophet's daughter Fatima, the daughter of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) condescend to (theft) what that woman was contemptuous of, Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) would certainly have been her would cut off his hand, ) he said. "
2646-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra, Zayd bin Khalid and Shibl (radiy-Allâhu anhum), these three Companions said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). A man (from the Bedouins) came (with his adversary) and said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): I swear by Allah, I ask you to rule between us by Allah's book (i.e., his decree). I will insist on this request unless I decide between them by the decree of Allah, not by peace. His opponent was more resilient and well-mannered. He said, 'Messenger of Allah, judge between us by the Book of Allah and allow me to present the situation'. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said (to this): Thereupon, the promised adversary (that is, the second person): my son was a worker (shepherd) next to him, and he committed adultery with his wife. That's why I saved my son by giving (this man) a hundred sheep and a eunuch (concubine). Then I asked a few men of knowledge. He said, "I was informed (by these scholars) that my son (who is still single) had a hundred lashes of hadd (punishment) and exile for one year, and that this man's wife should be sentenced to stoning. After that, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I swear by (Allah) in whose hand is (the power) that I will certainly judge between you with Allah's book (i.e., his decree): Your hundred sheep and eunuch (concubine) will be returned to you. . He also said that his son should be struck with a hundred lashes and exiled for a year.) (Then to Unays, one of the Companions): Unays, go to this (bedouin)'s wife. If he confesses (the accused crime), stoning him), he said. Hisham said: Then Unays went to the woman. The woman also confessed (that she had committed the alleged crime). Unays also stoning the woman, "
2647-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Take the judgment of his punishment from me. Surely, Allah has made a way for those (adulterers) women. Single (man) and single (woman) la (punishment for adultery) is one hundred lads and one year exile. Sayyib (a man who marries a sahîh marriage and unites with his wife for once) is to sayyib (woman) la (punishment of adultery) with one hundred sticks and stoning (to be killed by being stoned). )
2648-) - “... According to what is reported from Habîb bin Salim (the clerk of Numan bin Bashir, the commander of Kufa): A man who had sexual intercourse with his concubine was brought before Numan bin Bashir (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ). Numan bin Bashir (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I will only judge this event by the decree of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). If a woman has made her husband lawful for her own concubine, I will have her husband slapped with a hundred lashes. She said, "If the woman does not give permission to her husband (for the aforementioned contact), I will stone him." "
2649-) - “... According to what is reported from Salama bin al-Muhabbik (radiyallahu anh): The case of a man who had sexual intercourse with his wife's concubine was presented to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not punish the man with hadd (punishment). "
2650-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) reported: bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh) said (in a Friday sermon in the Masjid-i-Nabawi in Medina while he was the caliph) : Muslims) Undoubtedly, I am afraid of this: A long time passes over the people and finally a man; He says that I do not find stoning (judgment) in Allah's book (an adulterous married man), and therefore people go astray by abandoning one of Allah's obligations. Be aware that if the person (who commits adultery) is muhsan (married) and beyyina (four male witnesses, or when there is pregnancy or confession, it is right to stoning. Surely, I have read the verse of stoning. The verse is this) and Sheikha (i.e. muhsan man and woman) fornication. When they did, you surely did not stone them. ) (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stoning, and after him we stoning. "
2651-) - “... It is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh). by; Mâiz bin Malik (al-Aslemî). He came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said: "No doubt, I have committed adultery." The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) turned away from him. (That is, he did not dwell on what he said.) Then Maiz (again) said: Surely, I committed adultery. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) turned away from him (again). Then Maiz (again) said: I have committed adultery without a doubt. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) turned away from him (again). Then Maiz said: I committed adultery. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (again) turned away from him. Finally, when Mâiz confessed four times, the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered him to be stoning. Then, when Mâiz (carried away) was stoned, he (could not bear) fled back. A man (Abdullah bin Unays) with a camel's jawbone in his hand caught up with him, hit him and threw him to the ground. (He was killed in this way.) When he could not stand the pain caused by the stones and his escape was told to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) later, he said: You did not abandon him.
2652-) ... It was narrated from Imran bin Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the woman came to the presence of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and confessed that she had committed adultery. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered the woman's clothes to be tied tightly on her. Then he had the woman stoning. He then prayed over the woman's funeral. "
2653-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had a Jewish man and a Jewish woman stoning to death. I am one of those who stone them. "
2654-) - “... from Jabir bin Samura (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) had an adulterous Jewish man and a Jewish woman stoning. "
2655-) - “... From Barâ' bin Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) passed by a Jewish man whose face was blackened with coal and who had been beaten with a stick. Then he summoned the Jews and said: (Is this how you find the punishment of the adulterer in your book (Torah)?). The Jews replied: Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) summoned a man from one of their scholars (named Abdullah bin Surya) and said to him: I am asking you by making an oath by Allah, who sent down the Torah. Is this how you find the punishment of the adulterer (in the Torah)? Man: If you hadn't made me swear like that, I would not have told you (the truth). However, the punishment of stoning increased among our notables. Then, when we caught a notable person (for adultery), we would let him go, and when we caught a weak person (for adultery), we would impose the penalty of stoning against him. Then we said, Let's agree on a form of punishment that we will apply to the notable and non-notable. Then we agreed on the penalty of blackening the face with coal and beating with a stick instead of the penalty of stoning, he said. After that, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I am the first to revive (implement) your order at the time when the Jews killed (did not implement) your order.” He decreed that the forewarned Jew should be stoning, and this judgment was executed. "
2656-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "If I had stoning someone without a witness (and without confession) because of his crime, I would have stoned such and such a woman, because doubts arose about him because of his way of speaking, his position and those who approached him." )
2657-) - “... From Al-Qasim bin Muhammad (bin Ebi Bekr-i Siddik) (radiyallahu anhum): bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) told the story of the husband and wife who were cursed in accordance with the lian process. Thereupon, (Abdullah) bin Shaddad (bin al-Had) said to Ibn-i Abbas; Is it (is it) the woman whom the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: (If I had stoned anyone (for the crime of adultery) without a witness (and without confession), I would have stoned this woman)? she asked. Ibn Abbas: The woman mentioned in the hadith you relate is a woman who reveals (signs of evil). "
2658-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If you know that the people of Lot have committed their deeds, kill the person who committed this (ugly) deed, and also the person who committed this deed. ) According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the person who did the (ugly) deeds of the people of Lot: and you did not condemn the one below. You have not stoned both of them). "
2660-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "One of the things I fear the most is the deeds of the people of Lot. )
2661-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "You murdered the woman who committed adultery with the woman who committed adultery. You have also killed a person who has sexual intercourse with an animal and kill that animal as well. )
2662-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra, Zayd bin Khalid and Shibl (radiy-Allâhu anhum), they said: We were with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). A man asked him about the verdict (whether he should be castrated) for an adulteress before marriage. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): If it is clear what she did, beat the concubine (with fifty sticks). Then (again) if he commits adultery (again, beat him with fifty sticks). Then, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, on the third or fourth time: if he commits adultery again (declaring his fault), sell him (manufactured) even with a rope (value). "
2663-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he commits adultery, beat him (with fifty sticks). If he commits adultery (again), beat him (with fifty sticks). Then (again) if he commits adultery, beat him (with fifty sticks). Then (again) if he commits adultery (again) beat him (with fifty sticks). Then (declaring its fault) sell it even if it is a twisted rope. ) means (twisted) rope. "
2664-) - “... When the verses about my innocence (of my innocence) were revealed from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up on the pulpit and told me about my innocence and (the descended) Qur'an (verses) he read. When he came down from the pulpit, he ordered two men and a woman (who accused me) to be put to death (punishment). These (kazif) were beaten as a hadd. "
2665-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When a man says 'Ya muhannes' to a man, beat him (who says) with twenty (whip) whips. And when a man calls a man yâ lûtî (a livâtacı), beat that (saying) man with twenty (lashes). )
2666-) - “... From Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh); He said: I have not given the diet (cost of life) to anyone whose (punishment) I have executed (and died because of this punishment). But I will pay the diet of anyone who drinks wine (and dies because of the hadd I put on him). Because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not set a limit (limited in number) for those who drink wine. That (the one that we hit the wine drinker with a certain number) is a punishment that we ourselves (ijtihad) impose. "
2667-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to order wine drinking (punishment) and to hit (the criminal) with shoes and palm branches peeled from their leaves (forty blows). "
2668-) - “... Hudayn bin al-Münzir er-Rakkashi (radiyallahu anh) said: bin Ukba was brought to the presence of (caliph) Osman (bin Affan) (radiyallahu anh), (about drinking wine) When the witnesses testified against him, Osman said to Ali (bin Abi Talib) (radiyallahu anh): Take your uncle's son (i.e. al-Walid) and execute the punishment (drinking wine) on him. Ali had him beaten and said: (The one who drinks wine) Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) took forty beatings, Abu Bakr took forty beatings and Umar was beaten eighty. Forty beatings and eighty beatings are both circumcision (that is, a legitimate punishment to apply). "
2669-) - “... It was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Beat him when he is drunk. If he gets drunk again (again) beat him. Then, if he gets drunk again (again), beat him up.) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said for the fourth time: (If he returns to drunkenness, then kill him.)
2670-) ... According to what is reported from Muawiya bin Abi Sufyan (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When they drink wine, beat them. Then when they drink (wine) beat them (again). Then when they drink (wine) beat them (again). Then when they drink (wine), kill them.)
2671-) - “... From Said bin Sa'd bin Ubade (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: There was a weak and weak man among them. He was (once) suddenly caught in a bad mood with one of the building's concubines. Thereupon (my father) Sa'd bin Ubade presented his situation to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Throw him a hundred sticks." The Companions said: O Prophet of Allah, the man is too weak to withstand this beating. If we had thrown him a hundred sticks, he would have died. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Then take a palm branch with a hundred bunches for him and beat it (with that branch) once.” ... A similar hadith was transmitted to our author by Abu Umama bin Sahl directly (that is, without the mediation of Said bin Sa'd) as a replacement from Sa'd bin Ubade and partially with a different document. "
2673-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he draws a weapon against us (believers), he is no longer one of us. )
2674-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he draws a gun on us (believers), he is no longer one of us. )
2675-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If he draws a gun on us (believers), he is no longer one of us."
2676-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, while he was alive, some people from Urayna (tribe) came to Medina-i Münevvere. Then they did not want to stay in Medina (this city because the water and air of it touched them). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to them: Go to the place where there is a herd of camels (called Gabe) and drink the milk and urine of the camels. They also did (like this). (When these savages were healthy), they turned from Islam (kufr) and killed the shepherd (named Yesar) of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and took their camels with them. (When he became aware of this) the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) sent (a party) to catch them. They were caught and brought before him. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had their hands and feet cut off, had their eyes rubbed with nails reddened by fire, and had them leave Harra (the place called) until they died. "
2677-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: A crowd of people raided and kidnapped the milking camels of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had the hands and feet of the group (which he had captured) cut off and had their eyes gouged out. "
2678-) - “... According to what is reported from Said bin Zayd bin Amr bin Nufayl (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A person who is killed for protection is a martyr.” "
2679-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If someone goes to his property and fights against him (to get it hijacked), he also fights (to protect his property) and is killed, then that person is a martyr. )
2680-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: If his property is wanted to be taken (from him) by cruelty and he is killed (for this cause), that person is a martyr. )
2681-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Let him curse the thief. If he steals an egg, his hand is cut off, and if he steals a rope, his hand is cut off. )
2682-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) cut off the thief’s hand when a shield worth three dirhams was stolen. "
2683-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "His hand is cut off only by a quarter of a dinar or more (in case of stealing property of value). ) "According to what is narrated from Amir bin Sa'd's father (Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The thief's hand is cut off in case of the theft of the shield value of dirhams). . ) "
2685-) - “... (Abdurrahman) said from bin Muhayrîz: I asked Fadala bin Ubayd (al-Ansari) (radiyallahu anh) for the ruling of putting the thief's hand around his neck (after having it cut off). Fadala replied: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cut off a man's hand (who was stealing) and then had it put on his neck. "
2686-) - “... from Sa'lebe al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh); He said: bin Samura bin Habib bin Abd-i Shams (radiy-Allâhu anh) came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “The Messenger of Allah! I stole a camel that belonged to the sons of so-and-so. He said, 'Cleanse me (from sin) by giving my punishment). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent a man to the tribe (as Amr said) and inquired about it. The men said: We really did not find a camel. Thereupon, Amr's hand was cut off by the order of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). He said: I was looking at Amr's hand (cut off) when it fell to the ground, he was saying: (O stealing hand) Praise be to Allah, who cleansed me from you. You wanted to put my body in hellfire. "
2687-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); . The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he steals, sell it even if it is nashsh (twenty dirhams, that is, half the price). )
2688-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: One of the slaves, who had one-fifth (one-fifth) share of the khums property, stole something from the khums property. The situation was presented to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did not cut off his hand and said: It is the property of Azza wa Jalla, some have stolen some of it. "
2689-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The hand of a traitor (who is entrusted with property), neither a muntehib (those who usurps property, nor a muhtelis (who steals property with sleight of hand) are cut off.) (That is, none of them have their hands cut off.) . . . From Abdurrahman bin Awf (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) that he said: There is no cut off (penalty) for a person (who steals goods with sleight of hand and without being noticed). ) "
2691-) - “... Rafi bin Hadic. According to what is narrated from (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is not possible to cut the thief's hand, neither does he cut the fruit on the tree (in the case of stealing the palm core, which is said). ) "
2692-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He neither cuts the fruit on the tree nor cuts the thief's hand, even if he steals the palm core. . ) "
2693-) - “... According to what is reported from Safwan (bin Umayya) (radiy-Allâhu anh): Once he slept in the Masjid an-Nabawi with his rida (hijab) on his head, and his rida was taken from under his head. Then Safwan caught the thief and took him to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) also ordered that the hand of the thief (who found the crime to be proven) be cut off. Thereupon Safwan said: Messenger of Allah! I didn't want that (that is, having his hand cut off). When Ridam said: "May charity be for him", the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to Safwan: You should have done (this job) before you brought it to me) (and cut off the thief's hand). "
2694-) ... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As (radiy-Allâhu anhum): A man asked the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) the ruling on stealing fruits. -i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) : The value of the (stolen) fruits that are taken away while they are on and in their bags, along with a solid (the thief is made to pay). (penalty) exists. If a person eats fruit (although he is poor and needy) and does not take away (something from it), he does not need anything. ) commanded. Man: (what do you say about the sheep (that is, stolen from the pasture)?) O Messenger of Allah? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) : There is a price, however, there is a multiple of the price and punishment (that is, the penalty of tazir). There is a penalty for cutting hands when the value of the sheep bought by the thief is equal to the cost of the shield (stealing the sheep). ) commanded. "
2695-) - “... It was narrated from Abu Umayya (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the thief was brought before the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The thief confidently confessed to his crime. But the stolen item was not found with him. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said (to him: I do not think he stole it). The thief said: On the contrary (I stole it). Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said (again): I don't think he stole it. ) commanded. Thief. - On the contrary (I stole it), he said. Upon this, upon the order of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), his hand was cut off. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to the thief): He said, "I seek forgiveness from Allah and return to Him." The thief said. Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) also prayed twice: “O Allah, accept his repentance.” "
2696-) - “... From Vâil (bin Hucr al-Hadramî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: A woman (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was forced to commit adultery while she was alive. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) averted the punishment of hadd from the woman and gave the punishment of hadd (rajmatma) to the man who committed adultery with a woman. The narrator did not tell that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had given the woman a mahr (righteous). "
2697-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Punishments are not carried out in mosques. )
2698-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade executing the hadd punishment in mosques. "
2699-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Burda bin Nîyâr (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to say: No one can be hit with more than ten sticks in any punishment other than the hadd punishment. )
2700-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Do not punish more than a whip. )
2701-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubade bin Samit (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If someone is punished in this world by being condemned (for his crime), that punishment will be expiation for his (sin)." If he does not punish (for his crime) in this world, his business will be left to Allah (in the hereafter)
2702-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he commits a sin (other than unbelief) in this world and his punishment (had or tazir) is executed, Allah is much more just than double the punishment on his servant. (That is, he does not tempt him a second time in the hereafter.) And whoever commits a sin in this world and Allah covers that sin (from people's eyes) for him, Allah is pure, gracious, and merciful from returning by punishing him for something he has forgiven.
2703-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Sa'd bin Ubade (bin Deylem) al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh): Messenger of Allah! The man finds a (foreign) man near his wife, can he kill her? she asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (He cannot kill). Sa'd said: "By Allah, Who gives the true religion, on the contrary, he will kill (because of his jealousy). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to those present): Hear what (Sa'd) said. "
2704-) - “... From Salama bin al-Muhabbik (radiyallahu anh); He said to Abu Thabit Sa'd bin Ubade, who was a jealous man when the verse of punishment was revealed: Let's see, what would you do if you found a (foreign) man with your wife? he was asked. Sa'd, I would have struck my wife and man with a sword. (Do I) wait until I go and bring four male witnesses? Until then, the man finishes his work and leaves. Or: I will say that I saw something like this (with my wife and a man in adultery). You will also beat me (eighty sticks) as a punishment and you will not accept any of my testimonies forever. (So I won't do that, I'll kill them both immediately) he replied. He said: This speech was told to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The sword is enough.” Then he said: (No. I'm afraid that the drunk and the jealous will follow each other in this business). Abdillah, that is, Ibn Majah said: I heard Abu Zur'a saying: This is the hadith of Ali bin Muhammad al-Tanafisi. I missed hearing this hadith from him. "
2705-) - “...From al-Bara bin Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (The narrator Hushaym stated in his own narration that his name was al-Haris bin Amr) stopped by me. (This time) the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) assigned him a banner. Me to my uncle: Where do you want to go? I asked (the reason for his journey). My uncle said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) sent me to a man who married his wife (that is, his stepmother) after his father's death and ordered me to strike his neck (with a sword). "
2706-) - “... From Kurre (bin Eyas bin Hilal) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent me to behead a man who married his father’s wife (after his death) and to confiscate his property. "
2707-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he joins anyone other than his father (that is, claims to be his son) or says that he is a freedman other than those who freed him, the curse of Allah, the angels and all humans is on him (or on him). ))
2708-) - “... From Abu Osman (Abdurrahman bin Müll) an-Nehdi (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: Sa'd (bin Ebi Vakkas) and Abu Bakr (Nüfey' bin al-Hars bin Kelede) ( radiyallahu anhuma (separately). Each of them said: Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) : Paradise is forbidden (forbidden) to anyone who claims ancestry (i.e., his son) to anyone other than his father, knowing that he does not have a father. )
2709-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he claims ancestry other than his father, that person will not smell the scent of Paradise. However, the scent of Paradise can be found at a distance of five hundred years. )
2710-) - “... From Al-Ash'as bin Kays (radiyallahu anh); He said: I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) among his envoys. The ambassadors considered me superior to them. Messenger of Allah! Aren't you one of us? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): We are the sons of an-Nadir bin Kinâne. We do not accuse our mothers of unchastity and we do not reject our kinship to our fathers (or we do not stop joining our fathers' lineage and join our mothers' lineage), he said. ) said: After that, al-Ash'as bin Qays used to say: Whoever claims that any man from the Quraysh tribe is not from the en-Nadr bin Kinâne (family) is brought to me, I will cast him out (as a punishment) (I will beat him with eighty sticks) . "
2711-) - “... From Safwan bin Umayya (bin Khalaf) (radiyallahu anh): He said: Once, we were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Meanwhile) Amr bin Murra came and said: Messenger of Allah! Undoubtedly, Allah has written a calamity in my destiny. Because I do not think that I will be provided with any other means other than playing the tambourine with my hand. Therefore, let me sing without indecency, he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said (to him): I will not allow it, there is no honor (to you) and there is no pleasure. You lied, O enemy of Allah, Allah has certainly given you the opportunity to be provided with halal and good sustenance. But you have preferred the food that Allah has made haram for you instead of the food that Allah Azza wa Jalla has made lawful for you. If I had conveyed this prohibition to you earlier, I would now punish you (you deserve). Get up from me and repent to Allah. You should know that if you do (this job) after hearing about this prohibition, I will have you beaten badly, I will shave your head (with a razor) as an example, I will exile you from your family members and I will make your (looted property) lawful to the young people of Medina as a booty. He said: After this order of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), Amr (bin Murra) stood up in such a bad and disgraceful state that only Allah knows the degree of it. When Amr disappeared, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: They are rebels. Whoever dies without repentance, Allah Azza wa Jalla will resurrect him on the Day of Judgment as in the world, naked and not covered with a thin leaf against people, he will collapse to the ground as he stands up. )
2712-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), (one of the Prophet's wives): During her siege, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered her. At that time, Abdullah bin Abi Umayya, Umm Salama's brother, and his slave Muhannes were there. — He heard Muhannes saying to Abdullah bin Abi Umayya: If God grants the conquest of Taif tomorrow, I will show you a (young) woman (that is, I will catch her for you) that she will meet with all fours and turn around eight. Upon this, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (O believers) get these (muhanas) people out of your homes. ) commanded. "
2713-) ... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The first judgment given among people on the day is about blood feuds. ) "... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said, he said: "A share of the sin of my life for every person killed by Adam belongs to the Prophet". It happens to his first son (Cain account) because he was the first to initiate murder (he killed his brother Habil).)
2715-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The first judgment given among people on the day is about blood feuds. )
2716-) - “... According to what is reported from Ukbe bin Amir al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If he meets him without associating partners with Allah and not smeared with unlawful blood (that is, if he dies in this state), he will enter Paradise."
2717-) - “... According to what is reported from al-Bara bin Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The destruction of the world is better in the sight of Allah than killing a believer unjustly. )
2718-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If he helps kill a believer with half a word, he will appear before Allah Azza wa Jalla even though the phrase "He is hopeless from Allah's mercy" is written on his forehead. .) "
2720-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: "Believers, be careful." My ears heard and my heart memorized the hadith I heard from the mouth of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (blessed): A man from his sons wanted to repent after killing ninety-nine people. He inquired about the most learned man on earth. Thereupon, a person (priest) was shown to him. He got up and went to him and said: I killed ninety-nine people. Is there any possibility of repentance for me? she asked. The man (the priest) replied, "After the murder of ninety-nine people? The narrator said that (in response to this negative response) the murderer unsheathed his sword and killed the priest (also), thus increasing the number of people he had killed to one hundred. Then (again) the desire to repent appeared. Then the most learned man on earth inquired. A (scholar) man was shown to him. (This time) by going to him; I killed a hundred people, is there any possibility of repentance for me? she asked. Man: Good for you! Who can come between you and repentance (say you cannot benefit from repentance)? He said, 'Go out of the bad village (named Kefre) where you live and go to the good village (Nasra village) and worship your Lord there. Thereupon, the (repentant) murderer set out to go to the recommended good village, and his time came on the way. Angels of mercy and angels of punishment began to argue about him: Satan! I am more close to this man than anyone, because he never rebelled against me (always obeyed me), he said. And the angels of mercy said: This man repented and set out. ) ... (Râvi) Hammâm said: According to what Humayd at-Tavil told me from Abu Rafi (radiy-Allâhu anh) through Bakr bin Abdillah, Abu Rafi' said: (On the conflict between the angels of mercy and the angels of punishment) Allah Azza and Celle sent an angel (for the settlement of the conflict). The angels turned to this for the settlement of the conflict. The angel who is the referee: See. He decided that whichever of the two villages (that is, the bad village where the deceased came from and the good village he wanted to go to) is closer to the place where the deceased was found, subject the dead to the people of that village. ... (Râvi) Qatada said: Al-Hasan (al-Basri) narrated to us the following hadith: When death reached this man (in the middle of the road), the man pushed himself (toward the good village) and thus approached the good village and turned the bad village away from him. away. The angels also subjected him to the judgment of the good villagers (that is, they counted him as good people). ... Our author said: Abu'l-Abbas bin Abdillah bin Ismail al-Baghdadi (also) narrated a similar hadith to us through Affan, from Hammam. "
2724-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Shurayh al-Khuzai (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The person (heir) who is beset by the calamity of being killed or amputating a limb (this) You are free to choose one of three things. If the fourth asks for something, be restrained. (Three things) : Killing the murderer or blaming him or getting a diet (compensation). ) Whoever turns (to something else) after doing one of these, he will certainly have the fire of Hell, in which he will stay forever and be saved. )
2725-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: A person whose relative has been killed (in the case of heir) has the authority to choose what he sees fit, whether to kill the murderer or to receive ransom (compensation). )
2726-) - “... From Zayd bin (Sa'd bin) Dumayra (radiyallahu anhum); He said: (Sa'd) and my uncle told me (this) hadith. —Both of them participated in the Battle of Hunayn with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). — Both of them said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led us the noon prayer. Then he sat under a tree. Al-Akra' bin Habis, the head of the Hindif tribe, appeared before him and began to defend the blood (that is, not being killed) of Muhallim bin Cessâme (who was a murderer). Uyeyne bin Hısn also stood up and began to demand the blood of Amir bin al-Edbat (that is, the murder of Muhallim, who was his murderer). (Deceased) He was from the tribe of Âmir al-Eşca'. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to the deceased’s men: (Do you accept (=do) the price of blood?) The men refused (and wanted to kill the murderer.) Then a man called Mükaytil from the Bani Leys tribe stood up and said: Messenger of Allah, I swear by Allah, I can only (as follows) this victim who was killed in the first days of Islam. I liken it to a flock of sheep. He said, "The flock comes to drink water and (the head) is stoned and chased, and the one who is not stoned (feared) flees," he said. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to the deceased’s parents): fifty (camels) on this journey (in advance) and fifty (camels) when we return (to Madina-i Münevvere) (to be given as a diet). They also accepted the diet. " ..... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: that person is handed over to the deceased's parents. If they wish, the victim's parents can kill him, if they wish, they can take a diet (blood price). (pregnant camel). This diet is compensation for deliberate killing. Whatever (amount) is agreed with the parents of the victim, this is their right. This is the aggravated part of the diet.)
2728-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The victim of an accidental killing, which is similar to killing, is the person who was killed with a whip and a stick. (Its diet) is one hundred camels, forty of which are pregnant. ) ... Our author has narrated a copy of this hadith from Abdullah bin Amr in a second book. "..... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) said: He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood up on the Kaaba ladder on the day of the conquest of Mecca, and after praising and praising Allah, he said; It belongs only to Allah, who fulfills His promise, helps His servant - Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and defeats the enemy groups. It is the person killed with a stick. His diet is one hundred camels. Forty of the camels are caliph (pregnant) camels with their offspring in their bellies. Be aware that: Everything and all the blood feuds in the era of ignorance are under my two feet (that is, they are false, they have fallen). The usual Ka'ba sidana (service and maintenance) and pilgrim watering (irrigation) are excluded from this provision.
2731-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made the diet of killing twelve thousand (dirham silver). "
2732-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); If Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) is killed by mistake (= accidentally), his diet from camels is thirty bint-i Madhâd (female camel that has turned two years old), thirty bint-i Lebûn (female camel turning three years old), thirty hikka (female turning four years old) camel) and. ten Ibn-i Lebûn (a male camel that turns three years old). (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would value four hundred dinars (gold) or equivalent silver for this diet, which the villagers would pay. He would also appreciate this diet, which the camel owners would pay. When camels became more expensive, he would increase the cost of the diet (which the camel owners would pay) and decrease the cost of the diet when the price of camels fell. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to adjust the value of this type of diet (which the camel owners would pay) according to the current situation of the time. Thus, the value of this type of diet reached between four hundred dinars (gold) and eight hundred dinars (gold) or its silver equivalent (eight hundred dinars) to eight thousand dirhams when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was alive. (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ruled that the victim's diet, whose diet was to be paid by cattle, was two hundred cattle, and that the victim's diet, whose diet was to be paid by the herd owners, was two thousand sheep. "
2733-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (accidentally) twenty hikkas (female camels that turned five years old) in the diet of killing, twenty punishments (four-year-old female camel), twenty bint-i mahad (two-year-old female camel), twenty bint-i Lebûn (three-year-old female camel) and twenty ibn-i mahad (two-year-old male camel) . )
2734-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made the diet of killing twelve thousand (dirham silver). Ibn Abbas said: Allahu ta'ala's: (Allah and His Messenger enriched them from their bountiful bounty, so they tried to take revenge.) Repentance: 74 commandment is about this. Ibn Abbas said: Those mentioned in the verse (they got rich) by getting a diet.
2735-) - “... From Al-Mughira bin Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered that the diet (killer) be paid by his family. "..... According to what is reported from Al-Mikdam al-Shami (bin Madikarib) (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He said: I am the heir of a non-Muslim. Bayt al-Mala preserve.) I will pay his diet and become his heir. The uncle is the heir of the (nephew) who has no heir. Instead, he pays a diet and inherits his inheritance. )
2738-) - "... From the concubine (bin Zafar) ((radiyallahu anh): The man struck another man's lower arm with a sword and cut it off from a non-knuckle part. The man whose arm was cut off, applied to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), He wanted the one who cut off his arm to get his due. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered to pay a diet to the one whose arm was cut off. The man said: O Messenger of Allah, I want retaliation (that is, I want the arm of my opponent who cut my arm to be cut off). May Allah bless you with the diet, ) and he did not decide that his opponent should be retaliated for him. "
2739-) - “... According to what is reported from Al-Abbas bin Abdilmuttalib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There is neither caife (the wound that reaches the inner part of the body) nor munakkila (the wound that breaks the bone and slides it away) nor retaliation (that is, retaliation). . (In other words, no retaliation will be made to anyone who injures someone else like this.)
2740-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent Abu Cehm bin Huzeyfe (radiy-Allâhu anh) to the countryside as a zakat collector. A man is arguing with Abu Jahm about his zakat. Thereupon, Abu Jahm beat him and broke his head. Then the relatives of the man came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! Retaliation (that is, we want retaliation), they said. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to them): (Let you be given wealth). The people agreed. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to the men: (I will address the people (in the afternoon) and let them know that you are pleased.' The men said: Yes. wa sallam) made a speech (to the congregation) and said (meanwhile): Laysi applied to me to demand retaliation. (Then he turned to them) and said: Do you agree? Men; they said. Thereupon, the emigrants wanted to forbid them. But the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered the emigrants to give up. The refugees also gave up. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) called them and increased the amount of goods to be given to them. Then (to them) ; (Do you agree?) he said. Men: When you say yes. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I will speak to the people and let them know that you are pleased.” Men; Well, they said. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave a speech to the people. Then he said (to the men): (Are you satisfied?). The men said: Yes. Majeh said: I heard the following words from Muhammad bin Yahya: Only Ma'mar narrated this hadith. I don't know if anyone else has reported this. "
2741-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) decreed about the fetus (indemnity) with a gusto. Gurre is a slave or concubine. The man against whom a verdict has been given (that is, to pay a gratuity) (with rhyming, chosen sentences: O Messenger of Allah) Shall we give a diet for the fetus who has not yet drunk, eaten, shouted, or made a sound at birth? However, it is a reward (not avenged) as much as this? said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: This man (ordering rhyming sentences) is ruling with the words of a poet. The fetus (diet) is a gurra; A slave or a concubine) commanded. "
2742-) - “...From al-Misver bin Mahrama (radiyallahu anh): He said: bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh) consulted with the Companions about the abortion (compensation) of a dead fetus by a blow to the abdomen of a woman. Thereupon, al-Mughira bin Shu'ba (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I witnessed that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) judged it with a gurra (i.e.) a slave or a concubine (compensation). Umar said (to al-Mughira): Bring a companion who will testify (to this decision) together. Then, Muhammad bin Maslama (radiyallahu anh) said that he had witnessed (this decision) together with al-Mughira. " . "..... According to what is reported from Umar bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh): He asked the Companions about the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ruling on this issue, namely the fetus (diet). Thereupon, Hami bin Malik bin an-Nabiga stood up and said: I was between my two wives. One of them beat the other to death with a tent pole and killed his fetus (i.e. his unborn baby) as well. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered that a slave be paid for the compensation for the fetus, and that the murderer should be killed in return for the murdered woman. "
2744-) - “... According to what is reported from Said bin al-Museyyeb: Omar (bin al-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh): it is the right of the âkile (that is, the relatives of the deceased from the father's side) and the woman is the diet of her (killed) husband He was saying that he will not inherit anything from the price of blood. Finally, ed-Dahhak bin Sufyan (radiy-Allâhu anh) wrote to Umar that (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made the wife of Eşyem ed-Dıbâbi heir to his husband’s diet. (Thereupon, Omar reverted from his view.)
2745-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubade bin es-Sâmid (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made Hami bin Malik al-Huaselî al-Lihyani heir to his wife, who was killed by his kuma. "
2746-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He ruled that it was half of the Muslims' diet. The people of the two books are Jews and Christians. "
2747-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (the property of the person he killed) cannot be inherited. "
2748-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb: A man named Abu Qatada, one of his sons, killed his son. Umar (radiyallahu anh) took one hundred camels from him, thirty hikka (five-year-old female camel), thirty punishment (four-year-old female camel), and forty hahfa (pregnant camel). Then: where is her brother? I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he said: He has no right to inherit (the property of the deceased). "
2751-) - “... from Enes (bin Malik) (radiyallahu anh); . He said: Enes' (that is, his) aunt er-Rubeyyi' (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) (once) broke the front tooth of a concubine. Rubeyyi's relatives (from the opposite side) asked for forgiveness. But the concubine's men refrained from (apologizing). Thereupon, the relatives of Rubeyyi offered them to pay the compensation for the tooth. They did not accept this either and went to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered retaliation to be applied. (Rubayyi's brother) Enes bin an-Nadr (radiyallahu anh) : Rasûlallah er-Rubayyi's front tooth will be broken (in retaliation?) I swear by Allah, who sent you with the truth (religion) (and Allah's I hope for your help) that er-Rubeyyi's tooth will not be broken, he said. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Anas (bin an-Nadr) said that the decree made obligatory by Allah is retaliation. He said: (After Enes's oath of hope), the concubine's men consented (diet) and cited (er-Rubeyyi'i from the punishment of retaliation). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is such a person among the servants of Allah that if he takes an oath by Allah, Allah will fulfill his oath. "
2752-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) reported: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: They are equal (in terms of the amount of diet). The saniyya (called front) tooth and the dirs (called other teeth) are equal. )
2753-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ruled that the diet of a tooth was five camels. "
2754-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ((This and that), that is, the little finger, ring finger and thumb (in terms of diet) ( equal))) commanded. "
2755-) - “... According to what is narrated from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: They are all equal (in terms of diet). There are ten camels (diets) in them. )
2756-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is equal (in terms of diet). "
2757-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum): The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: ) there are five camels (diet). )
2758-) - “... According to what is reported from Ya'la and Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), sons of Umayya, they said: We set out with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the battle of Tabuk. We also had a friend with us. While we were on the way, our friend and another man fought. Ya'la said: The man bit the hand of his friend (with whom he was fighting). His friend also took his hand (quickly) from his mouth and dropped the man's front tooth. The man went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and asked for the diet of his (dropped) front tooth. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Turning towards his (religion) brother, he bites him like a male camel bites, then comes and asks for a diet (for the fallen female). There is no diet for the tooth that has been lost). Ya'la said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (rejecting the case) decided that the diet of the tooth was false. "
2759-) - “... It is narrated from Imran bin Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the man bit the arm of (another) man. The bitten man also pulled his arm (quickly), and the bite's front tooth fell out. The case was transferred to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) decided that the diet of the female was invalid and said: “Like a male camel eats hard bait with its teeth, it will bite (bite) the arm of its religious brother.” "
2760-) - “... From Abu Cühayfe (Waheb bin Abdillah es-Suvâî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said to Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh): Is there any information (in writing and revelation) available only to you and not to the people, apart from his book? I asked. Ali: By Allah, there is nothing with us except what is with the people. However, there are (we) God's giving the person the ability to understand the provisions of the Qur'an, and there are provisions (written) on this page. He said that there are provisions of the diets commanded by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and that no Muslim should be killed for killing an unbeliever. "
2761-) - “... According to what is narrated from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A Muslim cannot be killed in return for killing any disbeliever. ) " ". . . According to what is narrated from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "A believer is not killed for killing an unbeliever, and the owner of a covenant (a disbeliever) is not killed within his contract (duration). ) "
2764-) - “... From Umar bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saying: “There is no retaliation for killing his son. )
2765-) - “... It is reported from Samura bin Jundeb (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he kills his slave, we (too) kill that person, and whoever cuts off his slave's nose, we will cut that person's nose (too). )
2766-) - “... From Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum): The man killed his slave deliberately and deliberately. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had that man throw a hundred sticks, exiled him for a year and wiped his share from among the Muslims. "
2767-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): A man (from the Ansar) killed a woman by crushing her head between two stones. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had the head of the Jew crushed between two stones (that is, he ordered retaliation in this way). . . According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): A man (from the Ansâr) killed a young woman by touching the silver jewelry on her (by crushing her head between two stones). (The woman was brought before the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) while she was not dead yet.) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked the woman: “Did that person kill you?” Woman: No, she nodded. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) asked a second time (saying the name of another man: "Did that man kill you?"). Woman: No, she nodded. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) asked the woman a third time (saying the name of another man: "Did that man kill you?"). Woman: he nodded. (The Jewish man pointed out by the woman was caught and brought before him. The man confessed to his crime.) Thereupon, by the order of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), the killer (the head) was killed (crushed) between two stones. "
2769-) - “... According to what is narrated from Numan bin Bashir (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (his punishment) can only be carried out with the sword. )
2770-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There is no execution of retaliation (punishment) with anything else. )
2771-) - “... from Amr bin al-Ahvas (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saying during the Farewell pilgrimage: Be that as it may, every murderer is only responsible for the sin committed by his person. No father can be held responsible for his son's sin, and no son can be held responsible for his father's sin. )
2772-) - “... Narrated by Tarik al-Muharibi (radiyallahu anh): I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) raising his hands in the air to the extent that I saw the whiteness of his armpits and saying: cannot be held. Please know that no mother can be held responsible for the sin of her son. )
2773-) - “... From Al-Hashas al-Anbari (radiyallahu anh); He said: I went to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) even though I had a son. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: You cannot be held responsible for your son's sin, and he cannot be held responsible for your sin.
2774-) - “... According to what is reported from Usama bin Sharik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A person cannot be held responsible for another person's sin. )
2775-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (that is, the damage caused by a non-predatory four-legged animal) is a loss, and a mine (damage in a mine) is a loss. The well (also the loss) is a loss. (So these damages cannot be made anyone pay.)
2776-) - “... From Amr bin Avf (al-Muzeni) (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “The harm done by a dumb behim is a loss. Mine (damage inflicted) is also a loss. )
2777-) - “... from Ubade bin es-Sâmid (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) decreed the damage done by the mine (damage suffered), the well (damage suffered) and the damage done by acmâ (mute me). It means camel, cattle and sheep - goat and other behime. Cubâr also means: a gift that cannot be made (anyone) pay. "
2778-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The harm he has done) is a waste. The well (damage) is also a loss. )
2779-) - “... According to the narration of Sahl bin Ebî Hasme (radiy-Allâhu anh), one of the notable men of his tribe: bin Sahl (bin Zayd) and Muhayyisa (bin Mas'ud bin Zayd) (radiy-Allâhu anhu) were due to their poverty. They went to Khaybar (to collect dates with their friends) (which has plenty of dates in a date season). (And when they arrived in Khaybar, they separated to mind their own business. After a while, Muhayyis was informed that Abdullah bin Sahl had been killed and thrown into a well or a spring. Thereupon, Muhayyisa went to the Jews of Khaybar and said: "I swear by Allah, you killed him," the Jews said: "By Allah, we did not kill him." Then Muhayyisa returns from there (to Madinah) and reaches his people and explains the situation to them. Later, he, his older brother Muhayyisa and Abdurrahman bin Sahl got up and went to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). (First) Muhayyisa started talking, it was him who was in Khaybar (together with the victim). However, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) warned Muhayyisa, referring to his seniority: Leave the word to the elder, and leave the first word to the elder. Thereupon (Muhayyisa kept silent and his older brother) Huvayysa told the incident. Then Muhayyisa spoke. As a result, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to them: The Jews either pay the price of your (killed) friend's diet (blood), or a war is declared against them (by Allah and His Messenger). Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had a letter written (to the Jews of Khaybar) on this subject. (In response to this article) they sent a letter saying: We swear we did not kill him at all. Upon this reply, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said Huvayysa. He said to Muhayyisa and Abdurrahman: (do you swear) that the murder was committed by the Khaybar Jews and (in this case) you would be entitled to the blood price of your friend?). These are: How do we swear about a murder that we have not been (with) and have not seen? they said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Then the Jews swear to you (that they were unaware of this murder). They said: They are not Muslims (how can we respect their oaths). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave the deceased's diet from his own side. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) sent one hundred female camels to the relatives of the deceased and had them delivered inside the house. Sahl (bin Abi Hasme) said: A red female camel from that herd kicked me. " ". . from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); He said: His sons Huvayyisa and Muhayyisa and Sahl's sons Abdullah and Abdurrahman (radiy-Allâhu anhum) left (from Medina-i Münevvere) in order to obtain food in Khaybar. Abdullah was persecuted and killed (in Khaybar). Then the situation was explained to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (to the deceased’s companions) said: (You swear that Abdullah was killed by the Khaybar Jews) and you deserve (the blood price))? he commanded. They said: O Messenger of Allah, how can we swear about a murder that we are not with? they said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Then, the Jews will be acquitted of the crime you have accused (by taking an oath). Them; O Messenger of Allah! When the Jews are acquitted with the oath, they will kill us, they said. The narrator said: As a result, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave the deceased's diet from his own side. "
2781-) - “... Zinbâ (Abu Ravh) (radiy-Allâhu anh) reportedly came to the presence of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) by pulling out the eggs of a slave (or cutting off his penis). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) freed the slave against this torture. "
2782-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhum): A man shouted help, shouting help from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). came to him. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to him: There is? Slave: He saw me kissing a concubine, so he cut off my phallus, he said. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to the Companions: Bring the man to me. The man was searched. But it was not found. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said (to the slave: You are free). said: Slave: Messenger of Allah! If my master wants to enslave me, will you tell me who (wajib) it is to help me? she asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is (wajib) upon a believer or every Muslim. "
2783-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Faith is one of the most chaste (merciful) people in terms of killing style. ) ..... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The most chaste (compassionate) of people in terms of style is the people of faith. )
2785-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Their blood is equal (in terms of qisas and diet). And they are the one hand (should be like) against others (i.e. their enemies). The one with the lowest (in rank) can make (give) their (the property, life and honor they can give to the unbelievers) guarantee. And (by those closest to the enemy ranks) the booty taken in the war is returned to the furthest (that is, its share is given), '..... According to what is reported from Ma'kil bin Yasar (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "They should be like one hand against others (enemies) and their blood is equal (in terms of retaliation and diet). ) According to what is narrated from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (unity and solidarity) should be against those (enemies) who are not from them. Muslims are equal in blood (in terms of qisas and diet) and property. The lowest of Muslims (in rank) can guarantee the name of all (property, life and honor to the unbeliever), and (in war) the furthest of the Muslims (i.e., those closest to the enemy) return the booty they have captured (i.e., their shares) to the Muslims. )
2789-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever kills a muad (i.e. zimmi) (unjustly) who has the guarantee of Allah and the guarantee of His Messenger (that is, the guarantee considered valid by religion), that person cannot smell the smell of Paradise. . However, the smell of Paradise is found at a distance of seventy years,
2790-) - “... From Rifaa bin Shaddad al-Fityani; He said: If it were not for a word (hadith) that I heard from bin al-Hamik al-Khuzai (radiyallahu anh), I would have walked between al-Mukhtar's head and his corpse (separating it from each other). I heard Amr bin al-Hamik saying: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If a man guarantees his life and then kills him, that person will certainly carry the banner of cruelty on the Day of Judgment. )
2791-) - “... From Rifaa bin Shaddad (radiyallahu anh); He said: I entered Mukhtar in his palace. He said: Gabriel (Aleyhi Salam) got up from me at this hour. Apart from the hadith that Sulayman bin Suraed (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated to me from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Don’t kill him when he trusts you with his blood,” nothing prevented me from hitting Mukhtar on the neck (for this slander). It is this hadith that prevents me from striking his neck (with a sword). "
2792-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: While he was alive, a man (a Muslim person) killed him. The case was presented to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) delivered the murderer (to be shortened) to the deceased’s guardian. Thereupon, the murderer said: I swear by Allah, Messenger of Allah, I did not kill the victim deliberately. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to the deceased's guardian, "Know that if the murderer is truthful and then you kill him, you will enter Hellfire." Hüreyre said: Upon this order, the deceased's guardian released the murderer. Abu Huraira said: The murderer's hands were tied behind his back with a wide and long strap. The killer pulled off his belt, ate it, and left. For this reason, he was given the name Za'n-Nis (= the owner of the belt). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to the man: forgive, ). (This time) the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: kill the murderer, surely you (if you kill him) are like him.) Anas said: Then the man was caught from behind and it was said to him that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Kill him. Surely you (if you kill him) are like him. ) The man then gave way to the murderer. (radiyallahu anh) said: The murderer was seen walking towards the people of the house after eating his belt (which he was tied to and untied at the last moment). (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I think the deceased's guardian had tied the murderer. His sheikh) Abu Umayr He said: Ibn-i Shawzeb narrated that Abdurrahman bin al-Qasim said: After the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) no one (other than him) said to the deceased's guardian: (Kill the murderer, no doubt you. Nor can he say (if you kill him) you are like him. Maceh said: This is the hadith of the Kamlis. It is only with them, (it is not found with anyone but them.)
2794-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: He used to command (that is, encourage) forgiveness in every case related to retaliation presented to him (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). "
2795-) - “... from Abu'd-Darda (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he said: There is no (Muslim) man who suffers a calamity due to something (i.e. injury or cutting of one's side) and gives it as charity (i.e. forgives his opponent and gives up retaliation) so that because of this (forgiveness) Allah does not raise him a degree or forgive him a sin because of it. ) said) : My two ears heard this hadith and my heart memorized it well. "
2796-) - “... According to what is reported from Muâz bin Cebel, Ebû Ubeyde bin al-Cerrâh, Ubade bin es-Sâmit and Şeddâd bin Evs (radiy-Allâhu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he kills someone out of custom, if he becomes pregnant, he is not killed until he leaves the pregnant woman and delivers the baby to a caregiver. )
2798-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: When he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) died, he left neither a dinar (gold), nor a dirham (silver), a sheep, a goat, or a camel, nor bequeathed anything (financial). "
2799-) - “... According to what is reported from Talha bin Mûsârrif, he said: Abdullah bin Ebî Awfa (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): Did the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) make a will? I asked. Abdullah said: (He didn't). Me: How did he command the Muslims to make a will? said. Abdullah said: He willed (to act) according to Allah's Book. ... Malik said: Talha bin Mûsârrif said that al-Huzayl bin Shurahbil said: Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) gave the caliphate to his successor (i.e., as Shiites claim) the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Did Ali (radiyallahu anh) attempt to become a caliph at his head? Abu Bakr very much desired to find a covenant from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (on the way to the caliphate of any Companion) and to subordinate himself to him. "
2801-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: All of the will of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) at the time of his death, when his soul was at his throat (continuing) was the command (continue) and what your right hands possess (that is, respect the rights of your property and the rights of your slaves and concubines). . "
2802-) - “... from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The last words of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (at the time of his death) were: (continue) and pay attention to what your right hands possess). "
2803-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is not the right of a Muslim person to sleep for two nights unless he has something to do and his will is not written with him. )
2804-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "A person is one who is deprived of making a will. )
2805-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever dies on the basis of a will (that is, having made a will), that person will be a (befitting) one. He dies on taqwa and martyrdom, and he dies on forgiveness. ) ..... According to what is narrated from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “It is not the right of a Muslim person to sleep for two nights unless he has something to do and his will is not written with him. )
2807-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he escapes the inheritance (right) of his heir, Allah will cut off that person's inheritance from Paradise on the Day of Judgment. )
2808-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A man does the deeds of the people of goodness for seventy years. Then, when he makes a will (near his death), he does wrong in his will, so that his deeds are closed with evil and therefore he enters the fire (hell) (it is deserving to enter). Surely (another) man will do the deeds of the people of evil for seventy years. Then (when his death approaches) he will make his will justly, so that his deeds will end with goodness and therefore he will enter Paradise. ) Hurairah (radiyallahu anh) said (to confirm this hadith): If you want; Nisa: Read verses 13 and 14. "
2809-) - “... According to what is reported from Kurre (bin Eyas) (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “When his death approaches, he makes a will and if his will is based on the Book of Allah (the principles), that will becomes expiation for the zakat that he did not pay while he was alive. )
2810-) - "... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah, let me know who has the most right over me to behave well. said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: By your father, you will certainly be informed. (The person with the most rights) is your mother. Man: Then who is (who has the most right over me)? she asked. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Then (again) your mother.” Man: After (Mom) who? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Then (again) your mother.” Man: After (Mom) who? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Then your father). Man (this time): Tell me about my property, O Messenger of Allah! How can I give charity from him (how is the most virtuous charity)? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I swear by Allah, you will definitely be informed (of this). (The most virtuous charity) is to give alms while you are healthy, passionate (for worldly), hopeful of living and fearing poverty. Do not delay (giving alms). Finally, when your soul (mark to the throat) comes to this place, you say to my wealth and so and to my wealth. However, your property (due to your death) belongs to them, even if you dislike it. )
2811-) - “... From Busr bin Jahhas al-Kureşî (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (once) spat in his hand (lightly). Then he left his finger of martyrdom (on a drop of saliva) and said: (Azza wa Jalla) says: (O) Son of Adam, how can you make me helpless (though I created you from a drop of menli) which is like this (and not pay alms from your wealth)? When your soul reaches here (and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) pointed to his throat), you say: I will give alms. Where is the time to give alms? (So you missed this opportunity).
2812-) - “... From Amir's father, Sa'd (bin Ebî Vakkas) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: In the year of the conquest of Mecca (in Mecca), I fell ill as I approached death. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) visited me because of my illness. I said: Messenger of Allah, I have a lot of property and I have no heirs other than my daughter. Can I bequeath two-thirds of my property as charity? I asked. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: ). Me: (could be testament)? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (again); ) commanded. Me: one third (could it be) I asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: one (sufficient) and a third is a lot. (Because) leaving your heirs rich is better without leaving them poor enough to open their hands and beg. "
2813-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Allah (good) gave you a third of your property as charity at the time of your death in order to increase your deeds (he gave you the authority to give charity).
2814-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There are two things I have given you with my mercy: To cleanse and purify you (from sins), I gave you a share of your property (for a will) when I held your throat (I will take your life), and the funeral prayer (performed by my servants) on you after the end of your death (life). )
2815-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: I want them to reduce (their will) from one-third of their property to one-fourth. Because the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said; (that is, one third of the property is for the will) is large or much, ) he said. "
2816-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Harice (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) delivered a sermon on his (mountain named Kusvâ) camel. (At this time) the riding camel was ruminating, and the foam of its mouth was flowing between my two shoulders. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (in his sermon): Certainly, he ordered every heir to imitate (and appoint) his share of inheritance. It is no longer permissible to make a will to any heir. The child mattress belongs to (the owner). There is deprivation for the adulterer (man). Whoever claims that he is the son of someone other than his father, or says that he is freed from someone other than those who freed him, the curse of Allah, the angels and all people is on him (or on him). Neither repentance nor ransom from that person (ravi said: or the Prophet! neither ransom nor repentance) will be accepted.)
2817-) - “... From Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) in his sermon in the year of the Farewell Hajj, saying: He has given his right to every rightful owner (inheritance) without a doubt. There is no bequest to the heir anymore. )
2818-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: While delivering the sermon in the year of the Farewell Hajj, I was under the camel (neck) of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The foam from his camel's mouth was pouring down on me. (In his sermon) I heard the following command from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): Surely, every right holder has given his right (inheritance). Be aware that there is no will for any heir. )
2819-) - “... From Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) decreed that the debt (belonging to the dead) be paid before the testament (execution). You; You are also reading the verse of the remainder of the will or debt. And the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said that parents and brothers are heirs to each other, but only a father (who is with them) is the heir of his brothers. ruled that they were not. "
2820-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The man said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): My father died. He also left the property. And he didn't make a will. Will my giving alms instead of him be expiation for his sins? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Yes.). "
2821-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: The man came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Messenger of Allah! My mother died suddenly. He had not made a will. If my mother could speak, she would have given charity. Now, if I give alms on his behalf, will it be good for him and me? she asked. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (It will happen). "
2822-) - “... From Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: I cannot find anything (that will help me make a living) and I have no property. “I have an orphan who has property,” he said. Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to the man: “Eat from the property of an orphan without wasting money and not acquiring any capital.” Amr's grandfather said: And I think that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) also said: (And do not protect your property with the property of an orphan.)
2823-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Ebâ Hurayra, Learn and teach Ferâiz (knowledge). Because it is half of knowledge and this knowledge is forgotten. This science is the first thing that will be withdrawn from my Ummah. )
2824-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The wife (husband) of Sa'd bin er-Rabi (radiy-Allâhu anh) from the Khazraj tribe brought Sa'd's two daughters to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Messenger of Allah! These are the daughters of Sa'd. Sa'd was martyred on the day of Uhud (war) that he joined with you. These girls' uncle took all of Sa'd's property (ie he left nothing to the girls). A woman is (usually) married only to her property (that is, women who do not have property are not very popular). . The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) remained silent (by not responding to this application). Finally, it belongs to inheritance; . . . . . . verse was downloaded. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) summoned Sa'd bin er-Rabi's brother and said: Give two-thirds of your property to his two daughters. Give his wife one-eighth. And you take the rest, ) he ordered.
2825-) - “... from al-Huzeyl bin Sürahbil (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The man (governor of Kufa) came to Abu Musa al-Ash'ari and (the judge of Kufa) Salman bin Rebia al-Bahili (radiyallahu anhuma) to one of the deceased's daughters, one son's daughter and one parent and one sister. He asked about the inheritance shares. Abu Musa and Salman: He has half of the inheritance for his daughter. The remainder (half) is for the sister of the deceased. (So that the son of the deceased does not harm his daughter), they said. (Abu Musa, to the questioner:) You go to (Abdullah) bin Mas'ud (ask him too) He will answer in accordance with our fatwa (in my opinion) he said. Thereupon, the man went to Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh) and asked him about the matter and told him what Abu Musa and Salman had said. Abdullah ; When I give an appropriate answer to their fatwa, I will have gone astray, and I will not be one of them on guidance. And yet, I will rule with the decision of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). (It is also:) half of the inheritance is for the daughter of the dead. The deceased's son's daughter has one-sixth to complete two-thirds of the estate. The remaining one-third is for the deceased's sister. "
2826-) - “... From Ma'kil bin Yasar al-Muzeni (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard from (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) that (heirs) a ferâiz issue, in which there was a father (father and father), was presented to him, and he gave his father one-third or one-sixth of it (he decreed it). . "
2827-) - “... from Ma'kil bin Yasar (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ruled with one sixth of the inheritance of our ancestors. "
2828-) - “... From Kabîsa bin Züeyb (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: cedda (that is, the mother of the deceased) applied to Abu Bakr es-Siddiq (radiyallahu anh) and asked about the right of inheritance, and Abu Bakr said to him: There is nothing for you (your right to inheritance) in his book. I do not know that there is anything for you (your right to inherit) in the Sunnah (hadith) of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). In this respect, he replied, "You should go until I ask the Companions (about the situation)," and then he asked the Companions (about the situation). (As a result of the investigation) al-Mughira bin Shu'ba (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I was in his presence when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave him a sixth share. Thereupon, Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) asked al-Mughira: Are there any other witnesses with you? Muhammad bin Maslama al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh) stood up and said the same as al-Mughira bin Shu'ba said. Then Abu Bakr decreed that a sixth inheritance be given to that grandmother. Then he applied to Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anh) from the other paternal grandmother (that is, the deceased's paternal mother) and asked about the right of inheritance. Omar said to himself: There is nothing for you (your right to inherit) in his book. (During the times of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) the ruling on one sixth inheritance for a grandmother was only for someone other than you (that is, the other grandmother). Nor am I adding anything to the inheritance shares. And yet (sahih) the inheritance share of the grandmother is that sudus (the one-sixth share). Now, if you both share this share, this share is between the two of you (divide equally). He said that whichever one of you single-handedly inherits this share (that is, if the other one does not have it), this share belongs to him. " ". from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (sahih) made the grandmother inherit a sixth share. "
2830-) - “... From Ma'dân bin Abi Talha al-Ya'murî (radiy-Allâhu anhum): bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh) stood up to deliver a sermon on Friday or delivered a sermon to them on Friday. . After praising and praising Allah, he said: I swear that I do not leave anything more important than myself to later than the business of theology. (In other words, the most important issue I will leave behind is the Kalale issue). I certainly asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about the Kalale issue. He has never acted so harshly towards me in any matter as he was in this matter. He even poked his blessed finger on my side or chest (when I asked about this issue). Then: Omar! The verse of the summer season (verse 176) revealed at the end of the chapter Nisa is sufficient for you. ) commanded. "
2831-) - “... From Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); He said: There is a matter that if the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) had explained them (his) explanation would have been more beloved to me than the world and all the things in it: Kalale, interest and caliphate. "
2832-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: I (at a time) fell ill. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) came to visit me on foot due to my illness. I was unconscious at this time. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed wudu and sprinkled some of the wudu water on me. (I immediately sobered up) and; Messenger of Allah! How should I do? How do I rule about my property? said. Finally, the inheritance verse at the end of Surah Nisa was revealed. (of the chapter of Nisa about the heritage of Kalale); verse
2833-) - “... According to what Usama bin Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); Our Master the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: An unbeliever cannot inherit and a disbeliever cannot inherit a Muslim. "
2834-) - “... According to what is reported from Usama bin Zayd (radiyallahu anhuma), he said: Rasûlallah! Are you going down to your house in Mecca? he asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) replied: Did he leave us anything from home or dwelling (in Mecca)? Akil and (his brother) Talib inherited their (father) Abu Talib. (Other sons of Abu Talib) Ja'far and Ali (radiyallahu anhuma) did not inherit anything. Because (when Abu Talib died) they were Muslims. Akil and Talib were infidels. (radiy-Allâhu anh) used to say for this reason: A believer cannot inherit an unbeliever. ... Usama (radiyallahu anh) also said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: An unbeliever cannot inherit. A disbeliever cannot inherit a Muslim. ) "
2836-) - “... According to what is narrated from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The people of the nation cannot inherit one another.)
2837-) - “... From Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); He said: bin Huzeyfe bin Saîd bin Sehm married Ma'mer's daughter, Umm Vail al-Cümehiyye, and they had three sons with him. Then the children's mother died. The boys inherited a house of their mothers and the right of custody of their mother's freedmen. Afterwards, Amr bin al-As (radiyallahu anh) took these children to Damascus. Children died in the plague of Amwas. Amr (bin al-As), who was their big brother, became their heir. Then Ma'mer's sons came and applied to (caliph) Umar (bin al-Khattab) (radiy-Allâhu anh) and sued Amr about their sisters' right of custody. Thereupon, Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: I will judge between you based on the hadith I heard from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). I heard Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “The inheritance right of (child) and valid (mother or father) belongs to his (child’s or his father and mother) asaba. ) said: Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) decided that Umm Vail's right to vela belongs to us (based on this hadith) and gave us a letter regarding this decree. There was also the testimony of Abdurrahman bin Avf, Zayd bin Sabit and another person in this article. Finally, during the time when bin Marwan was caliph, one of Umm Vail's freedmen died and left two thousand dinars maras. I was informed that this decree (given by Omar) had been changed. Ma'mer's sons, that is, Umm Vail's brothers, filed a claim (to us) this time by appealing to Hisham bin Ismail (for the right of guardianship). Hisham also referred us (caliph) to Abdulmalik. We took the written decree of Omar (radiyallahu anh) to Abdulmelik. Abdülmelik: I was of the opinion that this judgment was of the kind of judgment without a doubt. “I did not think that the situation of the people of Medina-i Münevvere had reached such a level that they could hesitate in this decree,” he said. Abdulmalik (also) decided that Umm Vail's right to vela belongs to us. We have continued this right until now. "- . . From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) it said: A freed slave of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) fell from a date tree and died. He left a small amount of property. He had neither children nor any other relatives. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Give his inheritance to a man from his villagers.”
2839-) - “... (The Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) uncle) Hamza (radiy-Allâhu anh)'s daughter (according to what Muhammad bin Abi Leyla said, she is the mother-sister of Abdullah bin Shaddad) ( from radiyallahu anha); He said: One of my freed slaves died, leaving behind a daughter. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) divided his property between me and his daughter. He gave half of his property to me and half to his daughter. "
2840-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “A murderer cannot inherit (the person he killed).” "
2841-) - “... From Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood up on the day of the conquest of Mecca and said: she inherits from her husband's diet (blood price) and property, and the man inherits from his wife's diet and property. Unless one of them kills his friend (i.e. his wife), (this is the ruling). If one of them accidentally kills his friend, he inherits his property. But he cannot inherit from his diet.)
2842-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Umama (Es'ad) bin Sahl bin Hunayf (radiy-Allâhu anh): The man shot an arrow at another man and killed him. The murdered man had no heirs other than an uncle. Abu Ubayda bin al-Cerrah (radiyallahu anh) asked the caliph (caliph) Omar (radiyallahu anh) in writing about this man's inheritance. Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) replied in writing to Abu Ubayda, that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: And his Messenger is the heir of a (Muslim) who has no heir. The uncle is also the heir of the (nephew) who has no heirs. )
2843-) - “... According to what is reported from Mikdâm Abu Karîma (bin Madikerib) (radiy-Allâhu anh), who was one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and a member of the people of Damascus, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he (dies) leaves a property, that property is for his heirs.) Whoever (dies) leaves a weight (i.e. family in need of help and debt), that weight (to bear his work) belongs to us, (or: That weight belongs to Allah and His Messenger). , commanded). And I am the heir of the one who has no heir. Instead, I diet and inherit his. An uncle is also the heir of a person who has no heirs. Instead, he pays a diet and becomes his heir. )
2844-) - “... From Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) decreed that parents and siblings are heirs to one another, but only one brother (who is with them) is not inherited (to them). The man, father and mother inherit a sibling. However, a (only) paternal sibling of that sibling does not inherit. "
2845-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Divide your property among certain shareholders. Give the remainder of the shares (to the dead) to the nearest man. )
2846-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: A man (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) died while he was alive, and he left no heirs behind. But there was a slave he had freed. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave the man’s inheritance to that freed slave. "
2847-) - “... According to what was narrated from Wasile bin al-Eska' (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He collects (takes) three (various) inheritances; The freedman, the baby she found on the way (abandoned) and brought up, and the child she married with her husband (his legacies). )
2848-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: When the verse (verses 6 - 9 of the chapter of Nur) was revealed, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The woman (by claiming that the illegitimate child she gave birth to is from her husband and is legitimate) annexes a person who is not from a family to them. That woman has nothing to do with Allah (religion or mercy) and Allah will not let her into Paradise. Whichever man denies (claims that it is not his) child even though he knows it (that is, he knows it is his own), Allah will deprive him of (seeing his mercy or beauty) on the Day of Judgment and will disgrace him in the presence of the witnesses (those in the Mahshar). )
2849-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is ingratitude to claim a lineage that he does not know or to reject a lineage (for the blessing of lineage) even if his inner face is unknown. )
2851-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The child is the person whose heirs claim annexation after the death of the man who is said to be his father. ) Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) decreed (on this subject): A person born of a concubine, whom he owned when he had sexual intercourse, joins the (heirs) who claim that she is the son of the man. But there is nothing for that person from the inheritance that was divided (between the heirs of the man) before the annexation claim. From the inheritance that has not yet been divided, his share is his own. When his ascribed father (while alive) denied him (that is, he said he had no children), he no longer joins the heirs (and cannot be considered the man's child) (even if the heirs claim annexation). If the child is from a concubine that the man does not possess (when he has sexual intercourse) or from a free woman who has committed adultery, the child cannot be counted as the man's son and cannot be inherited from the child (even if the heirs of the man claim annexation). This is the case even if the man attributed to him claims that the child is his. Because she is a child of adultery, she joins the heirs of her mother, who is free or a concubine. ) Muhammad bin Eâsid said: The word "inheritance divided before annexation" in the hadith meant the property that was divided among the heirs in the period of ignorance before Islam. "
2852-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade the sale and donation of velâ (that is, the freed person’s right to inherit the freed person). "
2853-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma): He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) prohibited the sale and donation of velâ. "
2854-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: - The inheritance property that was divided in the period of ignorance is (valid) over the form of division in the period of ignorance. The inheritance property of Islam is also (valid) on the division form of Islam. )
2855-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When he is born (when he is born), the funeral prayer is performed (when he shouts or shows signs of life) and he becomes an heir. )
2856-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah and al-Misver bin Mahrama (radiy-Allâhu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He will not inherit (unless he makes a sound) unless he shouts (when he is born). ) said: The baby's istihlâl is crying, shouting or sneezing. "
2857-) - “... From Temini ed-Dârî (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (once): O Messenger of Allah! What is the sunnah (=shar'i ruling) about a man from the People of the Book who accepted Islam on the hands of a (Muslim) man? I asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A man is closer to the one who accepts Islam than anyone else in his life and death. )
2858-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "He said to a (Muslim) who goes out in his own way (jihad), saying, "Jihad in my way, belief in me and affirming my prophets does not drive him out of his (house) for any reason." (Allah) promised, "It is under my bailment to include that person in Paradise or to bring him back to his home (safely) with the reward or booty he has attained." Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ) (continuing his speech): I swear by Allah, in whose hand (power) is, that if I were not (concerned) causing difficulties for the Muslims, I would never be left behind in any war detachment (i.e. joining a battle detachment) that went out in the way of Allah (jihad). And yet I cannot find an abundance so that I can put them on (mountain animals). Nor do they find an abundance so that they can follow me (as a rider). Nor will their hearts be content for them to stay behind (from the war) after I (we went to war). He said, 'By Allah, in whose hand is Muhammad's soul (power), I desire to fight and be killed in the way of Allah, then fight (by being resurrected) and be killed, then fight and be killed (by being resurrected). "
2859-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: A person who makes jihad in his way (Muslim) is under the guarantee of Allah: Allah will either include him in His forgiveness and mercy, or He will return him with reward and booty (safety to his home). The situation of a (Muslim) jihadist (Muslim) in the way of Allah until he returns (to his home) is like that of a person who fasts (during the day) and continues to worship (at night) without being relaxed (during this). )
2860-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Or at any time in the evening, walking in the way of Allah (for jihad) once, avoiding the world and the world. is better than anything else. ) "
2861-) - “... According to what is reported from Sahl bin Sa'd es-Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'One walk in the way of Allah (for jihad) at any time in the evening is better than this world and everything in the world. ) "
2862-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Or walking in the way of Allah once (for jihad) at any time in the evening, no doubt from the world and the world. is better than all things.)
2863-) - “... From Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: If he equips a veteran who fights in the way of Allah perfectly, until that veteran dies or returns (from the war), the reward (gain) will be equal to the person who equips him. ) "
2864-) - “... According to what is reported from Zayd bin Khalid al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If a veteran who fights in the way of Allah is taczihat, he will receive a reward equal to that person's reward, without detracting from the reward of that veteran. )
2866-) - “... Ali bin Abi Talib, Abu'd-Derda, Abu Huraira, Abu Umama al-Bahili, Abdullah bin Omar, Abdullah bin Amr, Jabir bin Abdillah and Imran bin al-Husayn (radiyallahu anhum)' According to what is reported from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), all of these people said: If he stays in his house (that is, does not participate in the war) and sends a alimony (financial aid) to those who fight in Allah's way (in the way of Allah), he will receive seven hundred dirhams (rewards) for each dirham. After he said that if he fights in the way of Allah and spends wealth for this cause, he has seven hundred thousand dirhams (rewards) for each dirham; And Allah gives multiplied (good) rewards to whom He wills..... ). "
2867-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Umama (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If he does not fight, or equips a veteran, or does not take care of the children of a soldier who goes to war with honor, Allah will bring disaster on him before the Day of Judgment. )
2868-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If he meets Allah (i.e. dies) without having any work (related to jihad) in the way of Allah, that person will appear before Allah (on the Day of Judgment) with something lacking." . )
2870-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There are some men who, in every stream you pass and on every road you walk, have undoubtedly shared with you in the reward (because of this war), (because legitimate excuses such as illness and weakness) make them ( prevented him from participating in the war. ) Abu Abdillah bin Majete said: (Either this is the text of the hadith) or as the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said. I wrote the text of this hadith exactly. "
2872-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he dies while he is in the way of Allah while he is on ribat (i.e., on the frontier or waiting for the enemy in an important place), he has committed in the world. The reward of his good deed (even after his death) is poured on him (that is, his thawab is continued as if he continues his deed), his sustenance is also given to him (that is, sustenance is provided after his death), he will be safe from the testers (angels in the grave) and Allah will make him safe from fear on the Day of Judgment. as resurrection. )
2873-) - “... According to what was narrated from Ubayy bin Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Behind the awrah (that is, a dangerous position or frontier where it is feared that the enemies will infiltrate), except in the month of Ramadan. One day's ribat in the way of Allah, just for Allah's sake and reward, is undoubtedly greater in terms of reward than the fasting of a hundred years and reviving the night with obedience. One day's ribat in the way of Allah, while waiting for the reward from Allah in the month of Ramadan, behind the private parts of Muslims, is undoubtedly superior and more magnificent than the worship, fasting and nights of a thousand years in the sight of Allah and in terms of reward (I think). If Allah brings that person back to his offspring in peace, the sins of a thousand years will not be written against him, his charity will be written for him, and the reward of ribat will be poured out for him until the Day of Judgment (that is, he will receive the reward as if he had been on guard duty in this place until the Day of Judgment).
2874-) - “... According to what is reported from Ukbe bin Amir al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: May Allah have mercy on the person who keeps watch of the soldiers (or he did). )
2875-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saying: Keeping a night watch on his way is superior to fasting for a thousand years (voluntarily) among his children (that is, where he resides) and night worship. The (mentioned) year is three hundred and sixty days. The day is like a thousand years. )
2876-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to a man (who said he wanted to go on a journey): I recommend fearing Allah and saying takbir in every high place). "
2877-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); (Once) when the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was mentioned, he said: He was the most beautiful of people, he was the most generous of people, and he was the bravest of people. One night, the people of Medina-i Münevvere went to the direction where the voice came from, fearing an enemy attack. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) came back to Abu Talha's naked, bare horse, with the sword around his neck, and before everyone else, he came across them (that is, the people of Medina who were going to the place of the sound) and called them back. He translated: People will not be frightened, ) commanded. Then, for the horse, he said: We found it as an ocean (flowing like an ocean) or (it is a flowing like an ocean). Hammad said: Thabit or someone else narrated this hadith to me and said: It was a horse of Abu Talha. It was said to be going heavy. But after that day, it was never stopped. "
2878-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When you are asked to do jihad (by state officials), do it.)"
2879-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The dust and the smoke of Hell on his way cannot gather in a Muslim servant. )
2880-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he walks in the way of Allah (for jihad) between noon and evening, (he on the Day of Judgment, it will be musk as much as the dust placed on him. )
2881-) - “... From Umm Haram bint-i Milhân (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), the aunt of Enes bin Malik; He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) one day he slept near me. Then he woke up smiling. Me: Messenger of Allah! What made you laugh? I asked. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me (I laughed at him) that a group of my ummah was shown to me on this sea, when they were set up on the thrones of the sultans, and they were going to war in the way of Allah by boarding the ferries. Umm Haram: Messenger of Allah!) Pray to Allah that I am one of those naval veterans. Anas said: Ekrem (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) prayed for him. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) slept again. After a while he woke up smiling again. Umm Haram also said the same as her (first) word. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave him the same answer as the first. Umm Haram also said: Messenger of Allah!) Pray to Allah to make me one of those veterans. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to him): (You are one of the first). She said: Indeed, Umm Haram, together with her husband, Ubada bin es-Sâmid, took part in the first naval battle organized by the Muslims under the command of Muawiya bin Abi Sufyan (and during the governorship of Damascus). When the Muslims returned from their war (victorious) and went to Damascus (from the sea) an animal (mule) was brought nearer so that Umm Haram could ride. (While Umm Haram was getting on, the animal dropped her (to the ground) and she was martyred. "
2882-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu'd-Darda (radiyallahu anh), ; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "One sea battle (in terms of reward) is like ten land battles. And a dizzy (ghazi) in the sea (war) is like a person who squirms in his blood (in war) in the way of Allah. )
2883-) - “... From Abi Umama (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: A martyr (in terms of reward) is the same as two martyrs of land (war). And the dizzy (ghazi) in the sea (war) is like the one who writhes in the blood of the land (war). The distance between the two waves of the sea (a veteran who traverses the distance) and the worship of Allah (the way) are like the one who traverses the world (from one end to the other). Undoubtedly, Allah (Azza wa Jalla) has given the task of receiving souls to the angel of death - Azrael. However, the sea has excluded the martyr from this provision. Because God himself takes the souls of the martyrs of the sea. And Allah forgives all the sins of the black martyr, only the sin of not paying the debt. He forgives all the sins of the martyr of the sea and the sin of not paying the debt. )
2884-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If only one day (even) remains from the world (life), until a man from my Ahl al-Bayt conquers (i.e. conquers) Daylem Mountain and Constantinople (Istanbul). Allah (Azza wa Jalla) will extend that day. )
2885-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "You (Muslims) will be conquered without conquering its surroundings, and the town called Qazvin will be conquered by you." Whoever stays in that town for forty days or forty nights (i.e., he waits against the enemy) will have a dome (mansion) made of red ruby stones, built on a gold column with a green zeberced stone on top of it. There are seventy thousand door wings made of gold in that dome. At the head of each door leaf is a wife called Hurü'l-İyn. )
2886-) - “... Muawiya bin Cahime as-Salami (radiyallahu anh) said: He came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! Wishing Allah's pleasure and happiness in the Hereafter, I seriously intend to go to jihad with you. I said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “You should be forgiven. Is your mother alive?” Me: Yes, I said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Go back and obey your mother and do good." Then I went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) from the other side and said: O Messenger of Allah! I said that I seriously intend to jihad with you, wishing Allah's pleasure and happiness in the Hereafter, (that is, allow me to engage in jihad). The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked: “Excuse me. Is your mother alive?” I said: Yes, O Messenger of Allah. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Then go back to your mother and obey her." Then I went before the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! I really intended to go to war with you, wishing Allah's pleasure and happiness in the Hereafter. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ; (Woe to you, oh to you. Is your mother alive?) he asked. I yes. I said, O Messenger of Allah. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "May Allah help you. You hug your mother's feet. Because Paradise is there." ... According to (another) narration by Muawiya bin Cahime as-Salamî (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), Câhime went to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and told the same as that. Abdillah Ibn Majah said: This is Jahima, the son of Abbas bin Mirdas es-Salami, who blamed the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) on the day of Hunayn (war). "
2888-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), a man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlallah! I came with the intention of going to jihad with you, wishing for the pleasure of Allah and the happiness of the Hereafter. And he said, 'I came, though my father and mother were weeping (for my progress). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Then go back to them and make them laugh like you made them cry." "
2889-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh): The man who fought for heroism, with the intention of hamiyyah (i.e. bigotry and supporting his relatives) The condition of the man fighting and the man fighting for show (what is commanded about it?) was asked. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “If he strives only for the glory and exaltation of the word tawhid, only that person’s jihad is in the way of Allah.” "
2890-) - “... From Abu Ukbe (radiyallahu anh), one of the freed Persians; He said: On the day of Uhud (war), I joined the battle with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). I shot a polytheist man (in the war) and said: Take this blow from me, I am a Persian youth. Then this incident reached the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: You did not say: Take this blow from me, I am a young Ansari.)
2891-) - “... From Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: I heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: Every group of veterans who fought in their way and returned with booty (and health) will receive two-thirds of their reward in this world. If they do not get any booty (hereafter), their reward will be full.)
2892-) - “... According to what is narrated from Urve al-Bârıkî (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A horse's hair, which falls on his forehead, is knotted until the Day of Judgment, (No, it is reward on the Day of Judgment and booty in the world.)
2893-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The hair that falls on his forehead will be knotted with goodness until the Day of Judgment. )
2894-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “There is good in the hair that falls on his forehead or it is knotted until the Day of Judgment.” It is only reward for some people and a veil (against poverty) for some people. It is a plague on some of them. A horse is a person for whom only thawab is rewarded, who takes the horse (for jihad) in the way of Allah and prepares it (for war). Now, for every thing (food and drink) that the horse includes in its belly, a reward is written for its owner. If its owner grazes it on a large field with plenty of grass, a reward is written for the horse for everything it eats. And if its owner waters it from a flowing river, it will be a reward for every drop of water that he puts in the horse's belly. (In fact, he also told about the reward in the urine and manure of the horse.) And if the horse rears up (raising its front legs) and runs one or two laps with joy, a reward is written for its owner for each step it takes. A person for whom the horse is a veil (against poverty) is a man who acquires horses in order to protect his honor and chastity (by making a living) and to eat good sustenance, and does not forget the right of the horses' backs and bellies, in their narrowness and width (times). As for the person on whose neck there is a scourge, this is the person who acquires a horse for boasting, arrogance, arrogance, and hypocrisy against the people. This is the man on whose neck the horse is the plague. ) . . According to what is narrated from Abu Qatada al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He said: The best of all is a horse with a white coat on its forehead, white on its feet, a white nose and upper lip, and an absolute (unmarked) right foreleg. If there is no rain, this is a signifying straight horse (it is also good.)
2896-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He didn't like the shikal (i.e. the crossed bench on his feet) of the horse. "
2897-) - “... According to what is reported from Temîm ed-Dârî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he himself; I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: If he (acquires) a horse (to fight) in the way of Allah and then feeds it with his own hand, it will be a good reward for each grain of feed. )
2898-) - “... According to what is reported from Muâz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh); He himself heard the following hadith from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): If a man fights in the way of Allah Azza wa Jalla for as long as the time between two milkings of a female camel, it will be wajib for that person to enter Paradise (with the bounty of Allah). )
2899-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I was present in a war. Abdullah bin Rawaha (radiyallahu anh) said (while fighting the unbelievers): My soul! I'm warning you. I see you as dislikers of paradise (war causing entry). I swear by Allah that you will either enter Paradise by being obedient (by fighting) or you will certainly be forced into it. "
2900-) - “... from Amr bin Abese (radiyallahu anh); He said: (once) arriving at the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said; O Messenger of Allah! Which jihad is the best? I asked. He said: (Mujahid whose blood was shed and whose good breed horse was injured (in jihad is the highest jihad).)
2901-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Every injured person who gets injured on his way - Allah knows more than anyone else the person who was injured for his sake - Doomsday On the day of his injury, he arrives in the same condition as the day he was wounded (with blood appearing to be gushing): the color of blood, but the smell of musk. )
2902-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ebî Evfâ (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (on the day of the Battle of the Trench) praying against Ahzab (that is, the enemies) said: Allah, who sent the Qur'an and whose reckoning with the enemies is swift! You disperse the Ahzab (that is, those Arab tribes) (gathering in front of Medina). my god! You defeat their people and shake their will (so that they do not hold their ground). )
2903-) - “... According to what is reported from Sahl bin Hunayf (bin vahib) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he sincerely wishes from Allah to die as a martyr, even if he dies on his bed (without being a martyr), Allah will take him to the ranks of the martyrs. )
2904-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): Martyrs were mentioned in the presence of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Before the martyr's blood dries up, his two wives (from the houris) are like two wet-mothers in a large field (with lactating) who are unseen (later suddenly finds them), and in each of their hands is the world and all the things in the world. Even though there is a layer of Paradise clothing that is better than anything, they rush to it. )
2905-) - “... According to what is reported from Al-Mikdâm bin Madikerib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There are six characteristics for a martyr in his presence: His sins are forgiven with the first blood spilled, his position in Paradise is shown to him, he is protected from the torment of the grave, he is safe from the worst fear, he is dressed in the robe of belief, Huru. He is married to 'l-în and it is accepted that he intercedes for seventy (Muslim) people from his relatives. ) From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: When Abdullah bin Amr bin Haram (radiy-Allâhu anh) was martyred on the day of Uhud, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to me): (O Jabir! Shall I not inform you of what Allah Azza wa Jalla said to your father?) she asked. Me: Yes, I said (report). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Allah never spoke to anyone (martyrs) without the hijab (veiling). My dear) servant! Ask me for mercy, I will give it to you. He said. Your father (also) said: O Lord! The verdict that they will never return to the world has been given by me beforehand. )
2907-) - “... According to what is reported from Masrûk (radiy-Allâhu anh), Allah's; Abdullah (bin Mas'ûrî) (radiy-Allâhu anh) said (on a question asked) about the meaning of the verse: Surely, we asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about this. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Their souls are like green birds, they are provided for in any paradise they wish. Then they return to the lamps hanging on the Throne. While they are in this state, your Lord suddenly looks at them with one glance and says to them: Ask Me for whatever you want (other). They said: O our Lord! What will we ask of you, although we are provided for in whichever paradise we want? they reply (declaring that they have no need). (Allah asks their wishes three times) When they see that they will not be left until they want (something) (that is, they are asked to make a wish), they say: (O our Lord!) We ask you to return our souls to our corpses and be sent to the world so that we will be martyred (once again) in your way. . When Allah sees that they want nothing but this, they are no longer asked anything. )
2908-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "He finds something from being killed (pain) like the pain that one of you finds without being pinched. )
2909-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Atik (bin Kays) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sometimes) he fell ill. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also visited him because of his illness. Meanwhile, one of his family members said: We were seriously hoping that his death would be by martyrdom in the way of Allah. Upon this statement, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Then (when, as you think, martyrdom consists of being killed in jihad) the martyrs of my ummah are certainly few. To be killed in the way of Allah is a martyr. and people who drown in water, who die by being burned in fire, or who die as a result of madness (i.e., zâtu'l-cenb disease) are also martyrs. "
2910-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked (to his Companions): “What do you say about the martyr among yourselves?” They said: (Martyrdom) is to be killed in the way of Allah. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Then the martyrs of my ummah are very few. Whoever is killed in the way of Allah (jihad) is a martyr. Whoever dies in the way of Allah is a martyr. Anyone who dies of an abdominal disease is a martyr, and whoever dies of a plague is a martyr.” he commanded. ... Suhayl said: Ubeydullah bin Miksam narrated to me from Abu Salih and in his narration; He added, "One who drowns in water is also a martyr." "
2912-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): On the day of conquest, he entered Mecca with a helmet on his head. "
2913-) - “... Saib bin Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anh) Teala, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) bought two armors (robes) on the day of Uhud (war), it seems to me that he wore them one on top of the other. "
2914-) - “... from Süleyman bin Habîb (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (One day in Homs) we went to Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh). When he saw a piece of silver ornament on our swords, he got angry and said: "Let's say that the ornament of their swords is not gold and silver, but a community made of tin, iron and thong (which are the Companions of the Prophet (peace be upon him)") succeeded in many conquests. al-Kattan said: Al-Alabi is (in a way) a nerve. "According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) Dhu’l-Fakar (named) took his sword on the day of Badr (battle) more than his share of booty.”
2916-) - “... from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh); He said: When bin Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh) went to war with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), he carried a spear with him, and when he returned from the war, he threw the spear on the ground so that someone else could carry it for him. Then Ali (bin Abi Talib) said to him one day: I will definitely tell the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about this. (After Ali told him) Messenger of Allah: Don't do it like that to Müğîre. Because if you do (that), the spear you throw on the ground will not be removed as lost property). "
2917-) - “... Ali (bin Abi Talib). from (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had an Arabic bow in his hand. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) (by the way) saw a Persian bow in the hand of a man and asked him: What is the bow in his hand? Throw it away), he said, and (mark the bow in your blessed hand) (You acquire this, similar to this and spears. Because Allah will certainly develop the religion for you with them and settle you in the towns.)
2919-) - “... from Amr bin Abese (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: If he shoots an arrow at the enemy (while fighting in the way of Allah) and the arrow reaches the enemy, whether it hits the target or not, that arrow (the reward of that) is equal to the reward of a slave (freeing a slave). . )
2920-) - “... From Ukbe bin Amir al-Juheni (radiy-Allâhu anh) he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); When reciting the verse, "Prepare what you can against your enemies" on the pulpit, he said three times: Know that (in this period) strength is shooting arrows). I heard this with my own ears. "
2921-) - “... From Ukbe bin Amir al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he said: If he learns how to shoot arrows and then abandons it, he will have rebelled against me. )
2922-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stopped by a congregation that was shooting arrows (once from the Eşlem tribe): Sons of Ismail, continue shooting arrows. Because your father (Prophet Ismail) was also a (skilled) arrow shooter). "
2923-) - “... From Al-Harith bin Hassan (radiyallahu anh); He said: I came to Medina-i Münevvere. I saw the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) standing on the pulpit. Bilal was standing before Him, wielding a sword. And I saw a black flag and who is this (man with the flag)? I asked. They said: This is Amr bin al-As, who came from a war. "
2924-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered Mecca on the day of conquest with a white banner. "
2925-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): The flag of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was black and his banner was white. "
2926-) - “... According to what is reported from Esma (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), the daughter of Abu Bakr-i Siddik: He took off a robe made of dîbâc (silk fabric called) with buttons on his sleeves and collar and said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ) he used to wear this when he fought the enemy, he said. "
2927-) - “... According to what is reported from Umar (bin al-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh): He used to prevent silk and dibâc (silk fabric called) except for the amount of four fingers and said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) he used to say. "
2928-) - “... From Amr bin Hurays (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (blessed) is (still) wearing a black turban on his head and hanging the two ends of the turban between his shoulders. is before my eyes. "
2929-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered Mecca (on the day of conquest) with a black turban on his (blessed) head. "
2930-) - “... From Harice bin Zayd (bin Thabit) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: "A person goes to war, and he trades and trades during the war (what is the ruling on this)?" I saw him asking the question to my father. Upon this question, my father said to the man: We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in Tabuk (the war), we used to buy (goods) and sell (property) and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was seeing us and he was seeing us. (this job) did not prevent. "
2931-) - “... According to what is reported from Muâz bin Enes (al-Juhenî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is dearer to me than the world and all the things in the world, that I bid farewell to someone who goes to jihad in the way of Allah and supervise his belongings for a period of time from morning to noon or from noon to evening. )
2932-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) bid me farewell (once) and said to me: I entrust the things entrusted to him to Allah, whose things are not lost. )
2933-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: When (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) sent off the seriyyes (small military detachments) he would say to the departing (soldier): I entrust to Allah your religion, your entrustment (that is, what you left behind) and the last of your deeds. )
2934-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Eksem bin al-Cevn al-Huzâî (radiy-Allâhu anh): Fight with other tribes (infidels) other than your tribe, so that your character will improve and you will be valuable in the company of your friends. O Axim! The best of friends (on the journey) are four (persons), the best of the seriyye (military detachments) are four hundred (persons), and the best of the jahish (large military unit) are four thousand (persons). Twelve thousand (military force) will not be defeated due to fewness. )
2935-) - “... From Berâ bin Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (The Companions) used to tell us that the companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) on the day of Badr (who took part in the battle) were three hundred and ten odd, like the number of his friends who crossed the river with Talut. Only the believer crossed (the river) with Talut. "
2936-) - “... From Abu'l-Verd (Harb al-Mazini) (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Companion of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He said: If he comes across and runs away and gets booty (without war), stay away from the military detachment, which is treacherous in the booty he has obtained (So do not join such a military detachment)). "
2937-) - “... From Hülb (et-Tâî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about the food of the Christians. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Do not let any doubt come into your heart about what food you eat (Otherwise) you will resemble Christians in terms of food. )
2938-) - “... From Abu Sa'lebe al-Husheni (radiyallahu anh); He said: He came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! I asked the verdict of this, saying, "We are cooking in the pots of the polytheists." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do not cook in their pots. I; What if we need their pots and cannot find another vessel? I asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): If so, wash their pots well. Then cook and eat your food, ) he said. "
2939-) - "... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: We certainly do not seek help from any polytheist. (Râvi) Ali said in his own narration: (Râvi) Abdullah's father is Yazid or Zayd. "
2940-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is cheating. " '..... (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) narrated that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “War is cheating.”
2943-) - “... From Salama bin al-Ekva' (radiyallahu anh); He said: I fought and killed a (infidel once) man. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave me his salab (the thing with it). "
2944-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave to him the salab (that is, the belongings with him) of a (infidel) victim whom he killed on the day of Hunayn (war). "
2945-) - “... According to what is reported from Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he kills (an unbeliever), the salab (that is, the belongings of that unbeliever) belongs to that person. )
2946-) - “... From Es-Sa'b bin Cessâme (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (Once) the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was raided at night by polytheists (combatants) who had a family (by the mujahids of Islam), and their women and children who did not reach the age of puberty were also hit (by the way, indistinguishable). injured, killed), the question was asked. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He is from the polytheists (society). "
2947-) - “... From Salama bin al-Ekva' (radiyallahu anh); He said: While he was alive, we went to the war of Hawazin under the command of Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) and came to a water belonging to the Bani Fezâre tribe and stopped at the end of the night. Finally, when the time of dawn came, we raided them widely. Then we arrived at the place where there were families who owned another water. We raided them at night and killed them, who were nine or seven tribes. " " (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) found the body of a woman who had been killed on the road (during the conquest of Mecca). Thereupon, he forbade killing women and children who did not reach the age of puberty."
2949-) - “... from Hanzala al-Katib (radiyallahu anh); He said: (Once) we went to war with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Then we stopped by the corpse of a murdered woman, at the head of which the people gathered. The people dispersed for the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The woman did not fight among those who fought). Then go to a man: Go to bin al-Walid and tell him: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) commands you and says: Do not kill any woman or any man hired (for work other than war). ) ..... Rebah bin er-Rebî (radiy-Allâhu anh) also narrated the same from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Bakr bin Shayba said: "Swri is wrong in his own narration. "
2951-) - “... From Usama bin Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent me (at the head of a military force) to a village called Übna; In the early hours, they suddenly arrived at the village of Übnâ. (raise) Then (burn their houses, crops and trees),) he said. "
2952-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) reported: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had the wet date trees of Bani Nadir burned and cut down (due to the war) (during the siege). This area is Buwayra (the place called Bani Nadir's date palm). Thereupon, Allah (Azza wa Jalla); If you cut down any date tree (in the homes of the people of the book) or left it standing on its roots (this action of yours) is by Allah's leave and to destroy the wicked,) (Hashr: 5) verse. "
2953-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (during the siege) had the fresh date palm trees of Beni Nadir burned (as a necessity of war) and had them cut down. Expressing their situation, the poet of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) Hassan bin Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh); sang his poem about this event."
2954-) - “... From Salama bin al-Ekva (radiyallahu anh); He said: While (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was alive, we went to the war of Havâzin (tribe) with Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh). (Our Commander) Abu Bakr gave me a young girl from Banî Fezâre (tribe), one of the most beautiful Arabs, apart from my share of the booty. The girl was wearing an old fur coat. I did not open her dress (that is, I never approached her) until I came to Medina-i Münevvere. Then the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) met me in the market and took an oath and said: "Give me the girl." I also donated the girl to him. The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) by sending that girl? He gave it as ransom to free the Muslims held captive in Mecca. "
2955-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); a horse had gone (to the enemy side) and the (warrior) had captured the horse. Then the Muslims defeated the enemy (and the horse was brought back as a booty). Thereupon, his horse was returned to him in the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Omar: And one of his slaves escaped and joined the Greeks, and then when the Muslims defeated the Greeks, Khalid bin al-Walid (radiyallahu anh) returned the slave to him. He said that this (incident) happened after the death of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). "
2956-) - “... According to what is reported from Zayd bin Khalid al-Juheni (radiy-Allâhu anh): A man from Eshca' (tribe) died (in the war). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to the mujahids): You should perform the funeral prayer (that is, I will not). The Companions (since they did not know the condition of the man) were astonished at this situation and their faces changed (out of sadness). Then, when the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw the state of his companions, he said: “Your friend stole booty in the way of Allah.” Zayd said: Thereupon, the Companions searched the man's belongings. They found beads that were not worth two dirhams (even) of Jewish beads. "
2957-) - “... From Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: There was a man named Kerkere who was guarding the weight (of belongings) of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (road). This man (one day) died. After his death, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The man is in Hell. The Companions (to find out the reason for this) went and looked and found a dress or a cloak on the man that he had stolen from the booty. "
2958-) - “... from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: On the day of Hunayn (war), he led us in prayer next to a camel from the booty. After the prayer, he took a feather from the camel and placed it between his two blessed fingers. Then (to the congregation): people! Surely, this (even a feather) is one of your spoils. Pay (i.e. hand over to me) the thread, the needle, whatever is worth more and less than that. Because stealing something from the booty will undoubtedly be a shame, a shame and a fire for its owner on the Day of Judgment). "
2959-) - “... According to what is reported from Habîb bin Maslama (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (we subtracted one-fifth from the booty) gave one-third (of the remainder) to the mujahids as nefal. "
2960-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) at the beginning of the war campaign, one fourth (of the booty won by a detachment) and a third (of the booty gained by a squad) at the end of the war. he gave one as a nefel (to that detachment). "
2961-) - “... From Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: There is no nefal (that is, giving something more than his share to the mujahid) after (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)’ (death). The strong (mujahid) Muslims give (the spoils they have won) to the weak (in proportion to their shares). ...
2963-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) on the day of Khaybar (war) gave Suvari three deflections (from booty): Two deflections for the horse and (appointed a deflection) for the man.
2964-) - “... From Abi'l-Lahm's freed slave Umayr (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: When I was a slave, I participated in the war of Khaybar with my master. However, I was not given a defect from the booty, but a sword, one of the most mean things, was given to me. When I was wielding that sword (due to my short stature or young age), I was dragging the sword on the ground. (Râvî Vekî said that the master of Umayr did not eat meat—he was given the tag Abi'l-Lahm because he was.)
2965-) - “... From Umm Atiyya al-Ansariyya (radiyallahu anha); He said: I went to seven wars with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). I would wait for their belongings, cook their meals, treat the injured and take care of the sick. "
2966-) - “... from Safwan bin Assal (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent us to war in a military detachment and (while sending) said: “Walk in the way of Allah (to make jihad) by asking His name for help. Fight those who disbelieve in Allah. But do not cut a piece of the enemy's body, do not break your covenant (if any), do not betray the booty, and do not kill children.)
2967-) - “... Burayda (bin al-Husayb) (from radiy-Allâhu anh) said: When (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) appointed a man as the commander of a military detachment, Allah told him about his own soul. After advising to beware of Allah and to do good (that is, to behave well) about the Muslims with him, he would say: Mujahids) Jihad in the way of Allah, seeking help from Allah's Name. Fight those who disbelieve in Allah. Your war. But do not break your covenant (if any), do not betray the booty, do not cut off parts of the enemy's body, do not cut off organs, and do not kill children. Commander!) When you reach your enemies, who are among the polytheists, invite them to choose one of these three characteristics (options). Whichever of these they accept, accept them and give up on them. (Those three characteristics are: (First) You invite them to Islam. If they accept (this) from them and do not touch them, if they accept (this) from them. Then invite them to migrate from their own homeland to the homeland of the Muhajirs (that is, to Medina-i Münevvere), and inform them of the following situation: If they do this (i.e., if they settle in Medina), the things for the immigrants (such as rewards and booty) are also for them, and the obligation on the immigrants (like going to war) is also on them. If they abstain (from settling in Madinah), inform them of the following situation: (In that case) they will be like the Bedouins of Muslims, and Allah's judgment (such as prayer, zakat, retaliation and diet) applied to believers will be applied to them as well. And nothing (right) will happen to them in fay' (property taken from unbelievers without war) and booty (property taken from infidels by war), except when they make jihad with the Muslims. ask them to pay the jizya. If they do (paying taxes called jizya), accept them and give them up (i.e. don't fight). If they refrain (from this, too), seek help from Allah against them and fight them. If you besiege a castle and those in the castle ask you for the covenant of Allah and the covenant of His Prophet, do not give them the covenant of Allah and the covenant of His Prophet. And yet give them your covenant, your father's covenant, and the covenant of your friends. Indeed, it is lesser for you to break your own covenant and the covenant of your fathers than to break the covenant of Allah and His Messenger. If you besiege a castle and the people in the castle ask you to abide by God's decree (that is, the divine decree to be applied to them), do not accept the application of God's decree to them, but apply your own decree to them. (That is, judge them according to your own ijtihad). Because you certainly do not know whether it will comply with Allah's decree (in your judgment) about them.) ...
2969-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he obeys me, he has certainly obeyed Allah, and whoever disobeys me, he has certainly disobeyed Allah." Whoever obeys the imam (head of state) has certainly obeyed me. Whoever rebels has certainly rebelled against me.)
2970-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Believers! Listen and obey (the orders of your governors and commanders); Even if the governor (or chief) appointed over you is a black slave with a hair like raisins.)
2971-) - “... from Umm al-Husayn (al-Ahmesiyye) (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: If an Abyssinian slave with a cut off nose and ear is appointed as your commander, you will listen to his orders and obey (his) as long as he guides you with the Book of Allah.)
2972-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Dharr (-i Gifârî) (radiy-Allâhu anh): He arrived in er-Rebeze. At that time, he was residing for prayer and a slave (congregation) was preparing to lead the prayer. When it was said that this (the person who came) is Abu Dharr, the slave began to retreat (for Abu Dharr to lead the prayer). Thereupon, Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: My friend (the Prophet) (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) advised me to listen to and obey his orders, even if he is an Abyssinian slave with his nose and ears cut off.)
2973-) - “... Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent Alkama bin Mucezziz (radiy-Allâhu anh) at the head of a detachment (to war). I was in that detachment too. When the commander arrived at the beginning of the war or was traveling, a group of soldiers asked permission from the commander (to go separately). The commander gave them permission and appointed Abdullah bin Huzafe bin Kays es-Sahmi (radiy-Allâhu anh) as their commander. I was among those who went to war with this commander. While Abdullah bin Huzafe (with his group) was (stayed) somewhere on the road, the mujahids lit a huge fire for warmth or to cook a meal on it. (Our Commander) Abdullah — He had a habit of joking —: soldier)! Does he not have the right over you to listen to my orders and to obey me? she asked. The mujahids said: Yes (there is). The Commander said: Then you will do whatever I order you (right?). The mujahids said: Yes. The commander said: Then I order you to be thrown into this (flaming) fire. Thereupon, some of the mujahids stood up and prepared to be thrown into the fire. When the commander came to the conclusion that they would seriously throw themselves into the fire, he said: hold on (that is, do not be thrown into the fire). “Because I was joking with you,” he said. Said-i Hudri said: After we came back from the war (to Medina), the mujahids explained this situation to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If anyone from among them (that is, in your head) orders you to disobey Allah, do not obey him (in that regard).”
2974-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A person must obey (the orders of his Muslim superiors) in matters he likes or dislikes, except when he is ordered to commit a sin. it is wâjib. When ordered to commit a sin, there is no listening or obeying (any superior).
2975-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to us): Then, some men who extinguish the sunnah (that is, my way), act with innovations and delay the prayers will manage your affairs (that is, they will overtake you). Then I said: Messenger of Allah, how should I do if I reach their time? I asked. Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (to me): Ibn-i Abdi Um! You ask me how to do it? There is no obedience to anyone who disobeys Allah.) "
2976-) - “... from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (Ansari's night of Aqaba) We pledged allegiance to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) as follows: and even in our easy times, happy and sad times, and even when others are preferred to us (Ansari) to listen to and obey the orders (which will be given by the Prophet) and not to agree with the competent amir about the commandment, and to speak the truth wherever we are and not be afraid of the condemnation of any condemner for the sake of Allah (that is, not to abandon the right with this fear). (However, if you see the clear disbelief of the amir and have strong evidence from Allah's book about his disbelief, then you will agree with him about his command.)
2977-) - “... From Avf bin Malik al-Eşcaî (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: We were with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) as seven or eight or nine persons. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to us): Pay allegiance to His Messenger). So We stretched out our hands (to Him). Meanwhile, a speaker said: Messenger of Allah! We had certainly pledged allegiance to you. He asked, "What do we pledge allegiance to you now?" Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Worship, do not associate anything with Him, perform the five daily prayers (in accordance with their manners and manners), listen to the (legitimate) orders of your Muslim superiors, and obey (them). He replied, "The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said a word secretly — and you didn't want anything from people." Avf (radiyallahu anh) said: After all, I saw some of that congregation's whip (from his hand) falling to the ground and he did not want anyone to lift it from the ground and give it to him. "
2978-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: We pledged allegiance to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to listen to and obey his orders. Thereupon, the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (with pity on us): as much as is enough. "
2979-) - “... from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); He said: The slave paid allegiance to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to come and migrate. The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) did not know that he was a slave. Then the slave's master came and asked for him. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered his master to sell the slave to me, and bought him for two black slaves. After this incident, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did not accept his allegiance until he asked someone (who came for allegiance) whether he was a slave. "
2980-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There is a person whom Allah will not talk to, look at, or purify on the Day of Judgment. There is also a painful punishment for them: the first is a man who has more water than he needs in the desert, but who withholds it from a (thirsty) traveler. (Secondly), he is a man who sells a piece of property to someone after the afternoon and swears by Allah that he has bought it for this and that price, and the customer (on this oath) believes in him, whereas he is a liar (seller) in his oath. (Third) is the man who is the imam (i.e., he pledges allegiance to the head of state only for worldly sake. If the imam gives him out of worldly goods, that man fulfills his allegiance (i.e. obeys). If he does not give him worldly, that man does not fulfill his allegiance (i.e. rebels). ) "
2981-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Just as the officials governed the society," the prophets governed the sons of Israel. Whenever a prophet left (dies), another prophet would take his place. Surely there will be no prophet among you after me.) Companions: Then what can happen (after you)? they asked. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Then) there will be caliphs and their number may increase.” Companions: Messenger of Allah)! How will we do it when the number of caliphs becomes obligatory? they asked. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: stick to the allegiance you have made (because the first allegiance is valid) and pay your right (to listen and obey the order). Allah (Azza wa Jalla) will ask them about your rights, which they must abide by.)
2982-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "A sign will be erected (to be displayed among the people) for every person who breaks it, on the Day of Judgment, and it is said: This sign is the punishment of such a person breaking his covenant.") " Abu Said-i According to what is reported from Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Be sure that for every person who breaks his contract, a sign (to be displayed among the people) will be erected on the Day of Judgment to the extent that he breaks it.”
2984-) - “... From Ümayma bint-i Rukayka (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: We went to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) among a few women and pledged allegiance to him. The Prophet said to us (because of his pity); as much as you can afford. Surely, I do not shake hands with women.) "
2985-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He said: When the believing women migrated to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) (from Mecca to Medina before the Conquest), Allah said: "O Prophet! When they came to him, they were tested (i.e. allegiance) with the verse..... Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: Those who profess this verse (that is, accept the covenants in the verse) among the believing women would have accepted the test (i.e., the religious allegiance). When the women confessed and accepted the promises (in the verse) with their words, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would say to them: "Go. I have pledged allegiance to you (that is, your allegiance has been completed)". No. I swear by Allah that the (blessed) hand of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) never touched the hand of any (foreign) woman. He would agree with women simply by talking (that is, without holding their hands). He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) did not take any word from women about anything other than the covenants that Allah commanded him. The (blessed) hand of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) never touched the hand of any (foreign) woman. When the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) took the promise of women (for allegiance), he would verbally say to them: “I have pledged allegiance to you.” "
2986-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If he puts a horse (which will race) between two horses (and thus a running race is held between three horses) even though he is not sure of being prevented (that is, he does not know for sure that he will win the race), this prize competition is not a gamble. If anyone is sure of being overtaken (that is, he knows with certainty that he will win) but puts a horse (which will race) between two horses (and thus a running competition between three horses), then this prize competition is gambling.)"
2987-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) trained some horses (that is, made them weak by training). Then he used to run (race) the trained horses from Hafya to Seniyyetti'l-Veda. And he would race the horses that were not trained (also) from Seniyyetü'l-Vedâ to the Banî Züreyka mosque. "
2988-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The reward is only camels and horses (running). (There is also an arrow competition.)
2989-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade expeditions to enemy territory with the Mushaf, fearing that it would fall into the hands of the enemy. "(Abdullah) bin Umar (radiyallahu anhuma) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade expeditions to enemy territory with the Mushaf, fearing that it would fall into the hands of the enemy.
2992-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is a piece of torment. It disrupts your sleep and your drinking (it spoils your taste). For this reason, when one of you (while on a journey) finishes his journey, he should hurry back to his family.) ... This hadith of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) was reported to our author in a second deed. . " ..... According to what is reported from Al-Fadl bin Abbas or Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhum), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever wants to go, should hurry. Because sometimes a person gets sick, his horse gets lost and ( (it happens) that prevents going to pilgrimage) "
2995-) - “... From Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: "It is obligatory for people who can find a way there to make pilgrimage to the Ka'ba for the sake of Allah." Messenger of Allah! Hajj (is it obligatory) every year? they said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) remained silent. Then the Companions! Every year (Hajj made obligatory)? they asked. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If I had said yes, it would have been wajib to make pilgrimage every year. After that; those who believe! If it is explained to you, do not ask about things that you will not like) (Maide 101.) verse was revealed. "'... ) : If I had said yes (to make the pilgrimage every year), it would have been wajib.
2997-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): bin Habis said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): O Messenger of Allah! He asked, "Is Hajj obligatory (obligatory) every year (or) once (in life)?" Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (in response): It is fard once (in life) not every year. Whoever can perform (more than one pilgrimage) after that (more than one pilgrimage) is nafilah). "
2998-) - “... According to what is reported from Omar (bin el-Khattab) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: And do the Umrah one after the other. Because doing them one after the other, the blacksmith's bellows removes the dirt and rust of the iron, as well as the poverty and sins. It was narrated to us from bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh). "
3000-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is expiation for the sins (minor committed in time) between him and the other Umrah. The reward of the mabrûr (i.e. acceptable) hajj is only Paradise (including).
3001-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he makes a pilgrimage to this bayt (i.e. the Ka'ba) and does not commit sexual intercourse, lustful words or committing sins (as long as he is engaged in this worship), he (cleansed from sins) becomes the state (on the day) when his mother gave birth to him.) "
3002-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) made a pilgrimage on an old blade and a cloth worth four dirhams or not, and said: (This is a pilgrimage without hypocrisy and ostentatiousness (or make it a pilgrimage without hypocrisy). ) "
3003-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: We were (on a pilgrimage) between Mecca and Medina with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). We crossed a stream (during the journey). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) asked: "Which stream is this?" The Companions (radiy-Allâhu anhum) said: It is the al-Ezrak creek. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “It is before my eyes as I pass through this stream, praying to Allah by placing two fingers (n-tips) on his two ears and reciting the Labbeyke prayer aloud.” He told the length of the hair of the Prophet, but the narrator Davud does not remember the story well.) Ibn Abbas said: We continued our journey. We finally arrived at the top of a mountain road (or a mountain pass). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (there too): Which mountain road (or pass) is it? The Companions (radiy-Allâhu anhum) said: It is the Herşâ or Lift road (or gateway). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Aleyhis Salam) is on a red camel, wearing a woolen robe, and his camel's halter is in front of my eyes while I pass by this stream, reciting the lebbeyke prayer, even though his camel's halter is a thin string knitted from date fiber.)
3004-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Those who go and those who go to Umrah are the messengers of Allah. If they pray to Allah, Allah will accept their prayers and if they ask Allah to forgive their sins, Allah will forgive their sins.)
3005-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Those who go to war (with the disbelievers) in his way, go on pilgrimage and go to Umrah are the messengers of Allah. Allah invited them (to worship), and they accepted his invitation and they asked Allah, and Allah gave them what they wanted. ) "
3006-) - “... As it is reported from Umar (bin al-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh): once, he asked permission from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) to go to Umrah. The Prophet gave him permission and said to him: My brother! You make us a part of the prayer and do not forget us (from the prayer) "
3007-) - “... According to what is reported from Safwan bin Abdillah bin Safwan (radiy-Allâhu anhum), son-in-law of Abu'd-Darda: He (going to Damascus) arrived at Abu'd-Darda's house and (at home) ) found Ummu'd-Darda (radiyallahu anha), but could not find Abu'd-Darda (radiyallahu anh). Ummu'd-Darda said to him: Are you going to go on pilgrimage this year? said. He also said: Yes. Thereupon, Ummu'd-Darda said (to him): Then pray to Allah for goodness for us. Because the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The prayer that a person makes for his (religion) brother in his absence (that is, after it) is acceptable. At the head of that person, there is an angel (in charge) who says, "Amen to his prayer". As that person prayed for his (religious) brother, the angel (in charge) said: Amin, (what you want for your religious brother) may be good for you as well. He said: Then I went to the market and met Abu'd-Darda. He also narrated the same hadith to me from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). "
3008-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported: The man stood up in the presence of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlallah! What makes Hajj wâjib (condition)? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The condition of being wâjib is food and money.” Man: O Messenger of Allah! What is the pilgrim's position? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Because of various troubles), his body is dirty and he stops using good smells.” Another man stood up and said: Messenger of Allah! What is the (sign) of Hajj? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “was prostration.” Vekî said: The purpose of Acc is to recite the prayer of Lebbeyke aloud and the purpose of Sece is to slaughter (sacrificial) camels. "
3009-) - “... According to what is narrated from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), mentioned in the 97th verse of Surah Aal-i Imran; He (those who are able to make his way to the Ka'ba) said that the purpose of the command (the power in) is to eat and gain. "
3010-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He cannot travel a distance of three days or more. Unless you are accompanied by a father, brother, son, husband or (another) man who is a mahram.)
3011-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: It is not permissible for a woman who believes in the Last Day to travel a single day's distance without a private man with her.)
3012-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), a Bedouin (one day) came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: I signed up to join. However, my wife is about to go on pilgrimage, she said, "What is the order?" The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to the man: Then you go back with your wife to go on pilgrimage. "
3013-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: (once): Messenger of Allah! I said to women (Is there a jihad?) that is obligatory. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is a jihad without fighting against them: Hajj and Umrah.) "
3014-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is the jihad of every weak (Muslim) person.)
3015-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: (Once) he heard a man praying, "O Allah, I am at your service instead of Shubruma, I answered your call". he commanded. The man replied: He is a relative of mine. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked (to the man): "Have you ever made a pilgrimage (for your own soul)?" The man said: No. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Then, do this hajj for your own self, then perform the hajj instead of Shubruma (in the coming years). "
3016-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: A man (one day) came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “Resûlallah! Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Make pilgrimage to your father. Because if you do not increase his good by performing pilgrimage on his behalf, you will not increase his evil.) "
3017-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu'l-Gavs bin Husayn (this person is a man from the tribe of al-Fur') (radiyallahu anh): about a pilgrimage (worship debt) that was embezzled by his father, who died without performing the pilgrimage. He asked the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) for a fatwa. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Go on pilgrimage to his place.” The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “This is the same as fasting; "
3018-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Rezîn (Lakît bin Amir) al-Ukaylî (radiy-Allâhu anh): He came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlallah! My father is very old, he said he could not (physically) be able to perform Hajj, Umrah, or travel (What is commanded?). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (to Abu Rezîn): Perform Hajj and Umrah instead of your father. "
3019-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: During his pilgrimage, a woman from Has'am (tribe) came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Messenger of Allah! My father is really old, old, demented. The pilgrimage, which Allah made obligatory on His servants, has reached my father (that is, it has become obligatory). However, he is (physically) unable to perform this obligation (he cannot stand on a riding animal). Would it suffice for me to perform the pilgrimage instead of him? she asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: "
3020-) - “... From Husayn bin Awf (radiyallahu anh): He said: I (once) said: Messenger of Allah! Hajj (fariza) reached my father. However, I said that my father is physically unable to make the pilgrimage, unless he is tied up on a thousand. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) remained silent for an hour. Then he said: Go to Hajj as a reward. "
3021-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas' brother al-Fadl (bin Abbas) (radiyallahu anhum): (on the farewell pilgrimage) the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on the morning of the first day of Eid-al-Adha (That is, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) had him mounted on the back of the camel he was riding). At one point, a woman from the Has'am (tribe) came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Messenger of Allah! Allah's obligation regarding pilgrimage reached my father when he was very old and old (that is, Hajj became fard for my father while he was in this state). My father is unable to ride (a camel). Can I perform Hajj as a reward for it? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (You can!) Because if your father had an embezzlement debt, you would have paid it. "
3022-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: During the pilgrimage, a woman presented her child to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlallah! Is there a pilgrimage (virtue) for this child? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is a reward for you too. "
3023-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: My mother) Esma bint Umeys (al-Has'amiyya) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) gave birth in al-Şejara (when she was about to enter ihram). Thereupon, upon the order of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), Abu Bakr (Asma's husband) ordered Asma to wash her entire body and enter the ihram. "
3024-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Bakr (as-Siddiq) (radiy-Allâhu anh): He set out (on the road from Medina-i Münevvere) to make pilgrimage with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Asma bint-i Umeys (his wife) was with Abu Bakr. Esma gave birth to Muhammad bin Abi Bakr in al-Sajar (near the Zü'l-Hulayfa mosque). Thereupon, Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) went to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and presented the situation to him. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) to give the following instruction to Asma. Esma will wash her whole body, then enter ihram with the intention of hajj and perform the pilgrimage rituals (worships) that everyone does. However, he will not circumambulate the Ka'ba (until he is cleansed of blood). " " . . According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): bint-i Umays (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) gave birth to Muhammad bin Abi Bakr (while he was about to enter the pilgrimage ihram). Thereupon, Esma sent a message to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (to find out what to do). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered him to wash his entire body, to tie a piece of cloth tightly to his private part (to prevent bleeding) and to enter the ihram. "
3026-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The people of (-i Münevvere) will enter Ihram from Zü'l-Hulayfa, the people of Damascus from Juhfa and the people of Necid from Karn (with the intention of pilgrimage or Umrah). Abdullah (bin Omar) said: I heard these three (mikat) from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said; The news reached me that the people of Yalemlam will enter ihram (let them enter). "
3027-) - “... From Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) delivered a sermon to us. (In the sermon): The place where the people of (i Münevvere) will enter the ihram starts from Zü'l-Hulayfe. The place where the people of Damascus will enter the ihram starts from Juhfe. The place where the people of Yemen will enter the ihram starts from Yelemlem. The place where the people of Necid will enter Ihram starts from Karn. He said that the place where the people of the East (i.e. Iraq) will enter into ihram starts from the Irk. Then he turned his (blessed) face towards the (eastern) horizon and prayed, “Divert their (that is, the people of the east) hearts (to Islam).”
3028-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) put his foot in the tent and his camel stood up and recited the prayer of lebbeyke aloud from the side of the Dhu'l-Hulayfa mosque (that is, he went into ihram). "
3029-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: I was next to the head of the camel of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) by the tree. When the camel stood up and straightened up, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I am responding to his invitation to perform Hajj and Umrah together, I am at your disposal (that is, he went into Ihram). This (entry to ihram) happened on the Vedic pilgrimage. "
3030-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: I took the talbiya from the blessed mouth of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and he said: Allahumma Labbayk, Labbayk la sharik'e stain Labbayk, İnnel Hamde wa'n-ni'mete la la wal -property. La şerike lek.) Ömer's narrator) Nafi said: Ibn-i Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) added the following to the talbiyah of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Lebbeyke, Lebbeyke ve sa'deyke ve'l-hayru fi yedeyke Lebbeyke Ver-ragbâu ileyke ve'l-amel. " ". From Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The talbiyah of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was as follows: Allahumma Labbayk Labbayk La şerike lala Labbayk. İnne'l-hamde ve'n-ni'mete stain ve'l-mulk. La Sharika lek.) " ". . . According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said in his talbiyah: İlâhe’l-hakki Labbayk = I respond to your invitation, (O God of truth! I am ready to carry out your command.) " ". . . According to what is narrated from Sahl bin Sa'd es-Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When a mulebbi (reader of the dhikr of labbayk) recites the dhikr of labbayk, the stone, tree and adobe to the right and left of him also recites the dhikr of labbayk. (The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was pointing to the east and west.) Until the earth ends here and there (these materials are mentioned in labbeyke) ".
3034-) - “... According to what is reported from Hallad bin es-Saib's father (es-Sâib bin Hallad al-Ansari) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “He came to me and ordered me to order my Companions to recite the lebbeyke prayer aloud.”
3035-) - “... According to what is reported from Zayd bin Khalid al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (Alayhis Salam) came to me and said: O Muhammad! Order your Companions to recite the lebbeyke prayer aloud. Because talbiye (reading the prayer of lebbeyke aloud) is one of the signs of hajj, he said. "
3036-) - “... Abu Bakr-i Siddiq. According to what is reported from (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked which of the deeds is best. He replied: to recite his prayer aloud and to shed the blood of the sacrifices.)
3037-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There is no muhrim (who is in the ihram of hajj or umrah) who spends his day under the sun for his sake, so that his sins do not set with the sun (forgiven) and turn into the (sinless) state on which his mother gave birth to him. .) "
3038-) - "... According to what Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anh) has narrated, she said: I smelled the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) for his ihram before entering ihram, and to get him out of ihram before performing circumambulation (visitation). . Sufyan (in his own narration, adding Aisha's words): "With these two hands," he said. (In other words, Aisha said: I smelled the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with these hands.) "
3039-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) I can still see the glow of the Itrin (i.e., the perfume that is applied) on his (blessed) head while he is praying for labbayk. "
3040-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) three days after entering ihram and while in ihram (blessed) I can still see the glow of itrin on his head. "
3041-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), a man asked the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “What clothes can a person wear? she asked. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He does not wear shirts, neither turbans, nor underpants, nor noses, nor mestizos. But when he cannot find na'leyn, let him wear mestlers and cut them (when he is going to wear them) down to the bottom of his heels. And (while you are in ihram) do not wear any clothes dyed (or scented) with za'faran or vers (plant)."
3042-) - “... From Abdullah bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prohibited a person in ihram from wearing a dress dyed with vers or za’feran (plant). "
3043-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: I listened to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) while he was delivering his sermon (in Arafat) (ravi Hisham said: "On the pulpit" while he was reciting the sermon). He (in his sermon) said: Whoever cannot find an izar (that is, a loincloth-like dress that is wrapped around the waist) should wear a panty, and whoever cannot find a na'leyn, wear mestizos. Hisham in his own narration of the beginning of the hadith; He said, "Whoever cannot find an izar should wear a pant. It is exceptional that he cannot find a trousers". "
3044-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever cannot find na'leyn should wear mestizos and cut them down to the bottom of the heel bones.)
3046-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Hunayn: bin Abbas and Misver bin Mahreme (radiy-Allâhu anhum) had a disagreement in Ebva (about washing the head of a person with ihram). Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: “Nobody can wash his head,” Misver (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: “No one with ihram can wash his head.” Upon this conflict, Ibn Abbas sent me to ask Abu Ayyub al-Ansari about the issue. I found Abu Ayyub between two pillars of a well while he was about to wash his head. Abu Ayyub was covered with a robe. I greeted him. Who is it? she asked. Me: I am Abdullah bin Hunayn. Abdullah bin Abbas sent me to you. How did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wash his head while in ihram? “I present the question to you,” I said. Abdullah bin Hunayn said: Thereupon, Abu Ayyub-i Ansari put his hand on the dress that covered him and lowered the dress (from head to chest) until his head (completely) was visible to me. Then he ordered the man who was waiting to pour water on him: Pour (water). The man poured water on her head. Then Abu Ayyub rubbed his head with his hands, moved his hands forward and then back, and then said: I saw (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) doing this (that is, washing his head like this). "
3047-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: Although we were in ihram, we were with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). When the caravan of men came across us, we used to put our headscarf over our heads (over our faces). When the caravan passed us, we would raise our headscarves (open our faces). "...
3049-) - “... The grandmother of Abu Bakr bin Abdillah bin Zubayr (the narrator said: I do not know whether the word Nanasi refers to Esma bint Ebî Bakr or Su'da bint-i Avfra) (radiyallahu anhum) According to what is reported, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered Dubaa bint-i (Zubayr bin) Abdulmuttalib (radiyallahu anha) and said: My aunt! He asked, What is the obstacle that prevents you from going on Hajj? Dubâa said: I am a sick woman and I am afraid that my illness will prevent me from completing the pilgrimage. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to him. Enter the ihram and stipulate that you leave ihram in the place where you are detained (for a reason such as an illness) from performing the pilgrimage. "
3050-) - “... Dubâa (bint-i Zubayr bin Abdilmuttalib) (radiy-Allâhu anha) reportedly said: While I was sick, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to me and said (to me): I went on pilgrimage this year. Don't you want to go?) he said. Me: O Messenger of Allah! “I am seriously ill,” I said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Go on pilgrimage and (while entering ihram) say: (O Allah!) I will come out of ihram where you prevent me from completing the pilgrimage (for a reason such as an illness). "
3051-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: bint-i Zubayr bin Abdilmuttalib (radiyallahu anha) (once) came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: I am a woman with a heavy body and I seriously want to go on pilgrimage. In this case, how should I enter ihram with the intention of hajj? said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to him: Enter ihram with the intention of pilgrimage and (O Allah!) when you are entering ihram, stipulate that I will get out of ihram where you prevent me from completing the pilgrimage rituals (for a reason such as an illness). "
3052-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: They used to enter the Harem on foot and barefoot. They used to circumambulate the Bayt-i-Sharif and perform menâsik (that is, the worship of hajj and umrah) barefoot and on foot. "
3054-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered Mecca during the daytime. "
3055-) - “... From Usama bin Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (To the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)): O Messenger of Allah! Where will you land tomorrow (in Mecca), (to your house)? I asked. It was during His (Veda) pilgrimage to ask this question. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Did he leave us a dwelling (in Mecca)? Then: ((God willing) we will go down to the land of the sons of Kinana (i.e. al-Muhassab) tomorrow.) The Quraysh (the polytheists) made a covenant in this place on disbelief. This covenant and covenant was concluded between the sons of Kināne and the Quraysh (polytheists) against the sons of Hashim (and the sons of Muttalib): "not to exchange daughters with them". (This agreement would continue until the Hashimites and Muttalibs convinced the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) to obey Quraysh and Kinâne.) al-Ma'mer said: Zühri said that al-Hayf was a stream. . "
3056-) - “... From Abdullah bin Sercis (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: Usayli' (that is, the one who lost his hair) Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh) kissing Hacer-i Esved and saying: I saw him say: Hacer-i Esved)! Although I know very well that you are a stone and that it will neither harm nor benefit (in fact, anyone) I certainly kiss you. If I had not seen the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) kissing you, I would not have kissed you. "
3057-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Indeed, this Hajar (aswa) on the Day of Judgment will have eyes that see and a tongue that speaks. In that case, he will certainly come and testify in favor of those who make good use of it (that is, a believer who visits him in order to obey Allah and obey His Messenger).)
3058-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood against Hacer (aswad). Then she left her blessed lips on him after crying for a long time. He saw that Umar (bin al-Khattab) was crying next to him. Then they said: Omar! Tears are shed (should be shed) here)"
3059-) - “... From Sâlim's father (Abdullah bin Ömer) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to invade only the black corner from the corners of the Ka'ba (that is, the corner where Hacer-i Esved is located) and the corner that follows that corner from the side of the houses of the Cumhis (i.e. the Rukn-i Yemani) (his blessed hand). would last.)
3060-) - “... From Safiyya bint-i Shayba (radiyallahu anha); He said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) found peace in the year of the conquest of Makkah (completing the conquest), he circumambulated the Ka'ba on his camel. He also invaded Hacer-i Esved with a stick called mihcen (that is, he rode the stick on her). Then he entered the Ka'ba-i Magnificent. There he found an idol in the form of a dove made of the moon (called date palm). After breaking it, he stood at the door of the Ka'ba and threw out the idol he had broken. I was looking at him too. "
3061-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) circumambulated on a camel during his Farewell Hajj. He was also invading Hacer-i Esved with a mahcen. "
3062-) - “... from Abu't-Tufayl Amir bin Vasile (radiyallahu anh); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) circumambulating the Kaaba on his camel, invading Hajar-i Aswad with his mihjan (called stick) and kissing mihjan (after the invasion). "
3063-) - “...From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (when he came to Mecca) from Hacer-i Esved (again) when he first circumambulated the Ka'ba He would walk quickly in (first) three laps and normally in (other) four laps until (arriving) Hacer-i Esved. Nafi said:) Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) used to do the same. "
3064-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (in the circumambulation of kudum) from Hacer-i Esved (again) to Hacer-i Esved (to arrive) ) walked quickly in (first) three laps and normally in (other) four laps. "
3065-) - “... From Omar (bin el-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh); He said: Why is it right now to walk fast in tawaf even though ta'ala has rooted Islam and destroyed disbelief and its members? (But) By Allah, we will not abandon what we did while the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was alive. "
3066-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, when his Companions wanted to enter Mecca during Umrah (during his journey) after Hudaybiyya (the treaty): (Your people (that is, the polytheists of Mecca) will certainly see you (in Mecca) tomorrow). Let them see you strong and fierce,) he said. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and his Companions entered the Masjid al-Haram, they invaded Hajar-i Aswad (that is, they visited it by rubbing their hands) and walked quickly (in circumambulation). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was also with them. When they finally reached Rukn-i Yemani (stopping walking fast, they walked normally until the black corner where Hacer-i Esved is located). Then they walked fast until they reached Rürkn-i Yemani (from the corner of Hacer-i Esved). From there they walked normally until the corner of Hacer-i Esved. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did this three times (that is, in three rounds of circumambulation). Then he walked normally in the (remaining) four laps. "
3067-) - “... From Ya'lâ (bin Umayya et-Tamîmî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) circumambulated as a person of iztiba.
3068-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) whether he was from the Ka'ba or not. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is from the Ka’ba (a piece). Me: What prevented them from invading Hijr(-i Ismail) to the Ka'ba? I asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) replied, (Halal) budget was not enough to include Hijr(-i Ismail) in the Ka'ba (so they narrowed the Ka'ba). Me: Why is the door of the Ka'ba so high, but can be reached with a ladder? I asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): It is the work of your people. It is to include those he wishes into the Ka'ba and not to let those he wishes into there. If it were not for your people's closeness to kufr (the period) (the newness of their conversion to Islam) and the fear of breaking their hearts, I would not have the power (materially) to make a change in it so that it would be a part of the Ka'ba and inject the deficient part (which was left out) into the Ka'ba. I would see that it would not be enough and I would lower the door to the ground level,) he said. "
3069-) - “... From Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: If he circumambulates the Ka'ba (by wandering around seven times) and prays two rak'ahs (after circumambulating), he will have the reward of freeing a rak'ah (slave or concubine). .) "
3070-) - “... From Humayd bin Abi Seviyya; He said: While I was circumambulating the Ka'ba, I witnessed that Ibn Hisham (radiy-Allâhu anhum) asked him the following question and he replied as follows: Ibn Hisham (radiy-Allâhu anhum); He asked (can you give information about the virtue of Yamani). Ata bin Ebî Rabâh (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated to me that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Who is there; Surely, I ask you for health and well-being in this world and in the hereafter. If our Lord prays, "Give us the good in this world and the good in the hereafter, and protect us from the torment of the fire," those angels will say, "Amen." Muhammad asked what (information) did you receive about this (virtue of Hajar-i Eswad)?Ataa said: 'Hurayra (radiyallahu anh) asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (about the virtue of Hagar-i Eswad). ) narrated to me that he heard him say: "If he turns to Hajar-i Aswad, that person will certainly have turned to the Most Gracious (Allah) (that is, he has made allegiance and covenant to Him. ) Hisham, Ata bin Abi Rabah. He said: Ebâ Muhammad! What did you hear about the virtue of tawaf? Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) told me that he heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saying (about circumambulation) that he said: He circumambulates and (during circumambulation): "I believe that Allah is pure and decent from all kinds of deficiencies. All praise belongs to Allah. There is no god but Allah, and Allah is greater (above all). If he does not speak anything other than the word "Return from sins and worship is only with the help of Allah" (that is, a word about the world), his ten sins will be erased, ten good deeds (thawab) will be written for him, and his rank will rise ten degrees thanks to this worship. If he circumambulates and talks (about the world) during circumambulation, his (only) feet will sink into mercy, like a person whose feet (only) sink into water, (that is, the rest of his body does not sink into mercy).)
3071-) - “...From Al-Muttalib (bin Ebî Vedâa es-Sahmi) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) doing the following: When he circumambulated the Ka'ba seven times, he came and stood in line with Hagar-i Eswad. Then he prayed two rak'ahs at the edge of the circumambulation area, and there was no one (as sutra) between him (while praying) and those who circumambulated. Maceh said: This situation (that is, standing in front of the prayer without suture and passing in front of the prayer) is unique to Mecca. "
3072-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came (to Mecca). After circumambulating the Ka'ba seven times, he prayed two rak'ahs. (Râvi Veki said: That is, next to İbrahim's station, ) Then he went up to Safa (for the sake of peace). "
3073-) - “... From Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) when he finished circumambulating the Ka'ba (for the circumambulation prayer), he came to Ibrahim's station. Thereupon, Umar (bin al-Khattab) (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: Messenger of Allah! This is Allah Subhana; It is the station of our father Ibrahim, whom he said, "Take a place for prayer next to his office," he said.
3074-) - “... (Mother of the believers) Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) narrates: she fell ill, upon which she mounted (his camel) on the orders of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and circumambulated behind the people. Umm Salama said: While circumambulating the Ka'ba on a camel, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) stood next to the Ka'ba (ta) for prayer and (in prayer); I saw you reciting the surah. Maceh said: This is the text of the hadith that Abu Bakr narrated to me. "
3075-) - “... According to the narration of Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather through his father, his father Shuayb (radiyallahu anhum) said: (My grandfather) together with Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) visited the Ka'ba (for farewell) ) I circumambulated. When we finished our circumambulation by walking around seven times, we performed the circumambulation prayer behind the Ka'ba (that is, on the south side). Then I asked him: Won't you pray for refuge with Allah from the fire of hell? I asked. He said: I seek refuge in Allah from his fire. Shuayb said: Then Abdullah crossed over and invaded Hacer-i Esved (rubbing his hand). Then he stood between Hacer-i Esved and the door of the Ka'ba and stuck his chest, arms and cheeks on the mültezeme (Kaaba wall). He then said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) doing this. "
3076-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: We set out with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) (on the journey from Madinah to Mecca) with the belief that only pilgrimage (i.e., umrah cannot be performed) can be done (during the pilgrimage season). When we arrived at or near the sheriff, I got my period. While I was crying (because I would not be able to perform my pilgrimage), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to me and asked: "What's wrong? Have you had your period?" I replied: Yes. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) : It is something that Allah wrote (appreciated) to the daughters of Adam (Alayhis Salam). In this respect, you perform all of your menâsik (pilgrimage duties). He said, "Do not circumambulate the Kaaba only (until you stop menstruating). He said: And the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sacrificed a cattle on behalf of his wives. "
3078-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the mother of the believers: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed the pilgrimage. "
3079-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed hajj. "
3080-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman (radiy-Allâhu anhum) performed the hajj. "
3081-) ... From Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (The year of the farewell pilgrimage) We set out with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) to Mecca (from Medina to go). I heard the order of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): I intend to perform an Umrah and a Hajj. "
3082-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas (bin Malik) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (in the farewell pilgrimage): I am at your command with one umrah and one pilgrimage (I am responding to his invitation)). "
3083-) - “... from Es-Subey bin Ma'bed (radiyallahu anh); He said: I was a Christian man. Then I became a Muslim and entered ihram with the intention of hajj and umrah (i.e. Hajj-i Kıran). Then Salman bin Rebia and Zayd bin Suhan (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) heard that I was reciting the Lebbeyk prayer for both Hajj and Umrah in Qadisiyya. Thereupon, these two people said (point to me): A man is more ignorant than his camel (that is, he is deprived of the awareness that Hajj-i-ifrâd is more virtuous). With these words, it was as if they had loaded a mountain on me. (So his words were too heavy for me). Then I went to Umar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh) and told him what had happened. Thereupon, Umar (radiyallahu anh) turned to them and condemned them. Then he turned to me and said: You have been guided to the Sunnah of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), you have been guided to the Sunnah of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Hisham said in his own narration: Shakik said: I and Masruk used to go and ask es-Subey bin Ma'bed about this incident many times. According to the narration from es-Subey bin Ma'bed (radiy-Allâhu anh) in his deed, he said: I had just converted from Christianity to Islam. I did not fail in my effort and work by accepting Islam (to comply with the sunnah). Then, he said, "I went into ihram with the intention of pilgrimage and umrah (that is, I started Hajj-ı Kıran)," and he explained the same hadith above. "
3085-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Talha (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed Hajj and Umrah together (that is, he performed Hajj al-kiran). The hadiths and similar hadiths clearly indicate that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the Hajj-i Kiran. This situation was narrated from one of the Companions. Ibn-i Omar, Aisha, Jabir, Omar bin al-Khattab, Ali, Imran bin Husayn, and Süraka bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anhum) are from the aforementioned congregation. According to the apparent meaning of the hadiths reported in the previous chapter, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the Hajj-i Ifrâd. It is certain that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made a pilgrimage only once after the Hijra. This is the famous Farewell pilgrimage to the 10th anniversary of the Hijrah.
3086-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah, Ibn-i Omar and Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhum): When they (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came (to Mecca during the Farewell pilgrimage) with their Companions, the Messenger of Allah and his The Companions (who intend to perform the Hajj-i Kiran) circumambulated only once (by wandering around the Ka'ba seven times) for Umrah and Hajj. "
3087-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) circumambulated once (as fard) for Hajj and Umrah (in the Farewell Hajj). "
3088-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma): He came (to Mecca) with the intention of performing the Hajj-i Kıran. Then he circumambulated around the Ka'ba seven times and said sa'y between Safa and Marwa. Then he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did this. "
3089-) - “... According to what is reported from (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he goes into ihram with the intention of hajj and umrah (that is, starts Hajj-i Kıran), one circumambulation will suffice for his hajj and umrah, and he will stay out of ihram until he completes his hajj and leaves the ihram of both hajj and umrah together. can't get out.)"
3090-) - “... from Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard (with my ear) (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say while I was in Al-Aqiq (stream); A coming from my Lord (that is, Gabriel) came and instructed: Pray in this blessed stream and say: This is an umrah in the pilgrimage.)
3091-) - “... From Surâka bin (Malik) bin Cu'şum (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) stood up to address this creek and said: Surely, Umrah will undoubtedly be included in the pilgrimage until the Day of Judgment. "
3092-) - “... According to what is reported from Mutarrif bin Abdillah bin al-Shihhir (radiyallahu anhuma), Imran bin al-Husayn (radiyallahu anh) told me: Let me narrate the hadith to you: Know that a group of the family of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) undoubtedly performed Umrah in the (first) ten days of Dhul-Hijjah. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not forbid it, and no verse regarding its abrogation was revealed. Then a man said about it (i.e. Hajji Temettu) what he wanted to beat his opinion on (i.e. he opposed Hajj-i Temettu). "
3093-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh): He was giving a fatwa to Hajj-i Temettu. Then a man said to himself: delay some of the fatwa, stop the fatwa business. He said, 'You do not know what the Emir of the believers (that is, the Caliph Omar) instituted after you regarding the rituals of hajj and umrah (which is to prevent Hajj-ı Temettü). Moses said) Then, finally, I came across the leader of the believers and asked him. Thereupon, the Caliph Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I know without a doubt that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and his Companions performed Hajj-i temettu. And yet, I found it disgraceful for the pilgrims to continue to approach their wives (even under the tree of al-Arak) (until the time they will go up to Arafat) and then start the pilgrimage (to Arafat) with ablution dripping from their heads. "
3094-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: We entered ihram with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) just with the intention of hajj, we did not include umrah in the pilgrimage. Then we reached Makkah on the fourth day (morning) of Dhul-Hijjah. When we circumambulated the Ka'ba and said sa'y between Safa and Marwa, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us to convert our pilgrimage to Umrah and to get out of the ihram and approach our women. Thereupon, we are among ourselves: There are only five days between us and Arafa (day of Arafat). We talked (we were astonished by this situation) that we will go to Arafat (what is this?) even taking advantage of our women. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I am more pious, obedient and truthful to Allah than any of you. And if it weren't for the sacrifice (with me), I would definitely go out of ihram (after performing Umrah). Then Suraka bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh) said to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): Is our mut'a (that is, benefiting from ihram after tawaf and sa'y for Umrah) specific to this year? , or is it eternally legitimate? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) : (not for this year). On the contrary, it is legitimate forever,) he said. "
3095-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: Five days before the end of the month of Dhu al-Qadah, we set out (on the pilgrimage journey from Madinah) with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Not Umrah during the Hajj season) We thought it was a pilgrimage. When we finally arrived and approached (Mecca), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered those who were not sacrificed (after circumambulation and sa'y) to leave the ihram. Everyone (after circumambulation and sa'y) came out of ihram, except for those who were sacrificed. On the day of Eid-al-Adha, beef was brought to us and we were told that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sacrificed instead of his wives. "
3096-) - “... From El-Barâ bin Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and his Companions went on the pilgrimage to us. We (most of the Companions) entered ihram with the intention of hajj. Then, when we arrived in Mecca, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said (to us: convert your pilgrimage to Umrah). Companions: O Messenger of Allah! We entered ihram with the intention of pilgrimage. They said, "How can we turn our hajj into Umrah?" Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Look at what I have ordered, (do it)). The Companions: They did not want to leave the Ihram. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got angry and left. Then he entered Aisha (radiyallahu anha) angry. Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): Messenger of Allah! Who angered you? “May God punish that person,” he said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied: How can I not get angry when I ordered something and it was not followed?) "
3097-) - “... From Esma bint-i Ebî Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: We went on the pilgrimage (pilgrimage) with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wearing ihram. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Let those who are sacrificed stay in Ihram and those who do not have sacrifice (after circumambulation and sa'y) should leave Ihram. Esma said: I did not have a sacrificial animal with me. That's why I came out of ihram. (My husband) Zubayr had a sacrifice with him, he did not come out of ihram. Then I put on my (visiting) dress and went to Zubayr and sat down. Zubayr said: Get up, stay away from me. I said: Are you afraid that I will be thrown at you? "
3098-) - “... From Bilal bin al-Haris (radiyallahu anh); He said: (To the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)): O Messenger of Allah! Is the ruling of converting the hajj to umrah (participating in the farewell pilgrimage) reserved for us? Or is it common to all people? I said let us know about it. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “This decree is not general, it is reserved for us (that is, for those who take part in the Farewell pilgrimage). "
3099-) - “... From Abu Dharr(-i Gıfârî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The decision to convert it to Umrah was reserved for the Companions of Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (who were on the Farewell pilgrimage journey with him). "
3171-) - “... From Amr bin al-Ahvas (al-Cheshmi) (radiyallahu anh); He said: During the farewell pilgrimage (in Mina), I heard the following from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): people! Be careful! Which day is the most holy?) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) repeated this command three times. The Companions (radiyallahu anhum) said: The holy day is Hajj-i Akbar (i.e. the first day of Eid-al-Adha). Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: In this (Mecca) month, in this month of Dhu al-Hijjah, this (eid) day is a holy day, no doubt your blood (that is, your souls), your property and your chastity are among yourselves (everywhere and everywhere). time) is so sacred. Be careful! No criminal commits a crime against anyone other than himself (that is, no one else is punished for his crime). The son is not punished for his father's crime. The father is also not spared for the crime of his son. Be that as it may, Satan has forever lost hope of being obeyed in this town (Mecca) (by worshiping anyone other than Allah). However, in some of your works that you despise, following him will occur, which will please him. people)! Be aware that all the bloodletting cases from the Age of Ignorance have been cancelled. The first blood feud that I abolished from the aforementioned feuds is the feud of Abdulmuttalib's son al-Haris. (Al-Harith was looking for a wet nurse for his child in Beni Leys tribe. Huzayl tribe had killed him). people)! Be aware that all kinds of interest from the period of ignorance have been cancelled. The capital of your goods is your right. Do not oppress and do not be oppressed.) Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said three times after that: Please! “O my Ummah, have I conveyed (Allah's command)?” he asked. The Companions (radiy-Allâhu anhum) replied: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: be witness, be witness of my Allah, be witness of my Allah.)
3172-) - “... From Cubayr bin Mut'im (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) stood up at Minâ's al-Hayf (the bank of the creek) and said: Let the man who hears my word and convey it (to others) whiten his face. Because many men who memorize fiqh (the hadiths of their origin) are not fiqh scholars, and many (hadith) memorists who are fiqh scholars can forward them to more powerful jurists (hadiths). There are three virtues that as long as a Muslim person has them, his heart does not harbor hatred, treachery and enmity: To work with full sincerity only for the sake of Allah, to wish good to the rulers at the head of the Muslims, and not to leave the Muslim community. Because the invitation of the Muslim community also covers those behind them.)
3173-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to the muhadrama (that is, his camel, whose ears are as small as cut off) on Arafat, while he was on it: My Companions!) What day is today, what month is this month, and do you know what city this town is?) The Companions (radiy-Allâhu anhum) replied, “The town is a holy city, this month is a holy month and today is a holy day.” (Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Be your city (Mecca), this (Arafah) day, this month of Dhu al-Hijjah, just as your property and lives are unlawful and sacred to you.) Good. Know that: I am your pioneer (that is, I am the preparer of what you need there) by the pool of Kevser, and I pride myself on your abundance against other ummahs. Do not disgrace me (that is, do not embarrass me before Allah) (by committing many sins). Be sure: And I (on the Day of Judgment) will save some people. Some people will also be saved from me (ie the demons) will take them away. Me: O Lord! I'll say my friends (what will they be?). Allah will say: Then you do not know what they created.)
3174-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) he stopped between the cemrahs on the first day of the Eid pilgrimage. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked (to those who were with him): (What day is it today?). The Companions (radiyallahu anhum) said: It is the day of Nahr (Sacrifice Day). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) asked: (Well, which city is this?) The Companions (radiy-Allâhu anhum) said: This city is the Holy Land of Allah (Makkah). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (What month is this month?) The Companions (radiyallahu anhum) replied: This month is the holy month of Allah. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Today is the day of Hajj-i Akbar. In this month, on this day, your souls, property and chastity are sacred to you, just as this town is sacred.” Later. Did I convey (the command of Allah)?) The Companions replied: Yes. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) began to say: be witness. He then said goodbye to the public. Therefore, the Companions; This is pilgrimage. They said farewell is pilgrimage. "
3175-) - “... According to what is reported from Âisha and Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhum): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) postponed his visiting tawaf (connecting the first day of the Eid to the second day) to the night. "
3176-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) he did not practice performance (i.e. visit) in the seven shawts (rounds) of his circumambulation (i.e., he did not walk fast and hard). Ata said that there is no remel (that is, walking fast and strutting) in circumambulation of performance. "
3177-) - “... According to what is reported from Muhammad bin Abdirrahman bin Abi Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anhum), he said: (once) I was sitting next to Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhu). A man came to her. Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma) said to the man: Where did you come from? she asked. The man said: (I am coming from Zamzam). Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) said to him: Did you drink from Zamzam well (?). “How can this be?” the man asked. Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma): When you want to drink water from Zamzam, stand towards the qibla, mention the name of Allah, breathe three times while drinking Zamzam water and drink from it to blood. Praise Allah (Azza wa Jalla) after drinking zamzam water. Because the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The distinctive sign among hypocrites is that they cannot drink from Zamzam.”
3178-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He heard the following hadith from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). It is (useful) for whatever purpose the water is drunk for.)
3179-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: On the day of the conquest (of Mecca), he entered the Ka'ba with Bilal (bin Rabah) and Osman bin Shayba and locked the door from the inside. Then, when they came out of the Ka'ba, I asked Bilal where the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed. Bilal informed me that when he entered the Ka'ba, he prayed between the two pillars on his right and against the wall opposite his face. I blamed myself for not asking Bilal how many rak'ahs the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed. "
3180-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) left me happy. After a while, he returned to me sadly. Me: Messenger of Allah! You left me happy and came back sad? said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I entered the Ka'ba. But I wish I hadn't. Because I fear that I have caused difficulties for my ummah (by entering). )
3181-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): bin Abdulmuttalib (radiy-Allâhu anh) went to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to spend the nights in Mecca during the days of Minâ for the service of sikaye (drinking the pilgrims from Zamzam water). wa sallam) asked permission. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) gave him permission.
3182-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did not give anyone the license (that is, permission) to spend the night in Mecca (at Minâ nights). He only allowed Abbas (son of Abdulmuttalib) because of his service to the siyaya. "
3183-) - “... From Aisha (radiyallahu anha): She said: It is not sunnah to stay in el Ebtah (creek) on the way back. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) stayed there just so that it would be easy for him to go (on the way to Madina).
3184-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) departed from Bathâ (Medina) at the end of the night that connected the day he returned from Minâ to the next day. " ". . . From Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and Abu Bakr (who became the caliph after him), Umar and Osman (radiy-Allâhu anhum) (on their return from Minâ) al-Ebtah (deresin) they were staying. "
3186-) - “... From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The people (who came to Mecca for Hajj) were scattering (after the obligatory circumambulation and Mina days). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: No one should leave (Mecca) until they circumambulate the Ka'ba for the last time. "
3187-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the man to leave (Mecca) unless his last duty was to circumambulate the Ka'ba. "
3188-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); She said: Safiyya bint-i Huyey (who is one of the wives of Allahu 'alaihi wa sallam) had menstruation (that is, the menstrual period) after performing circumambulation (that is, the obligatory pilgrimage). Aisha said: I told this situation to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Is it preventing us from moving (to Madinah) by delaying the circumambulation until menstruation occurs?” I said: He performed circumambulation and then menstruated. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Let Safiyya come out (that is, he can move to Madina without waiting for the farewell circumambulation). "
3189-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) talked about Safiyya (bint-i Huyey) (that is, he asked about his condition). We said that she had entered the menstrual period. Thereupon, Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The woman who brings bad luck to her people! I think it is only hindering our departure (I mean, I guess our departure to Madinah will be delayed because of him), he said. Then I said: Messenger of Allah! I said that Safiyye performed circumambulation on the first day of Eid-al-Adha. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Time does not prevent us from moving to Madinah. Tell him to be sent. ) commanded. "
3190-) - “... From Ja'far bin Muhammad's father (Muhammad bin Ali bin Hussein bin Ali bin Abi Talib) (radiyallahu anhum); He said: We entered Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma). When we got to him, he asked who the people were (one by one). Finally, when it was my turn, I said: I am Muhammad bin Ali bin Hussein. Then he reached over my head and unbuttoned my top button (on the collar of my shirt). Then it solved my bottom button as well. He then placed his palm between my breasts (on my chest). I was a young boy then. (to me) : you came. “Ask whatever you want,” he said. I asked him (the nature of the pilgrimage of the Prophet (peace be upon him)). He was almighty. Then it was time for prayer. Thereupon, he got up (to pray) by wearing a cloth. Since the cloth he was wrapping was small, it would turn back towards him as he put it on his shoulders. His robe was on a hanger next to him. He made us pray. After the prayer, I said (to him): Tell me about the pilgrimage of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). Then, pointing to the number nine with his hand, he said: He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) stayed for nine years before performing the pilgrimage (in Madinah). Then, in the tenth year, he ordered the public to announce that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) would perform Hajj. Thereupon, many people came to Madinah. All of them wanted to follow the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) (that is, to make pilgrimage with him) and to do what he did. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) set out (from Madinah). We also went out with him. We arrived at Zü'l-Hulayfa. Asma bint-i Umeys (there) gave birth to Muhammad bin Abi Bakr and said: What will I do? He sent a message to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to him): Wrap a cloth that prevents blood from flowing and enter the ihram. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed in the Dhu'l-Hulayfa mosque. Then he got on the Kaswa (called camel). Finally, when his camel took him to Bayda (the place called Bayda), (Jabir said) I looked at as many mounted and pedestrians in front of him as I could see, and there were just as many people on his right. To his left was the same amount of people, and there were just as many behind him. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was also among us. The Qur'an (verses) were revealed to him, and he knew their meanings. Whatever He was doing, we were doing the same thing. The Messenger of Allah recited the tawhid (i.e., the prayer of labbeyk, which includes the unity of Allah) aloud: I responded a lot to his invitation. I have repeatedly responded to your invitation. You don't have a partner. I have accepted your invitation again. Surely, the praise and blessing are yours and the property is yours. You don't have any partners. " on the other hand, they recited the labbayk prayer loudly, which they still read aloud. (In other words, they added to the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)'s labbayk prayer. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) continued his talbiyah. Jabir said: We did not intend anything other than hajj. We did not know about umrah (that is, we did not know that hajj and umrah could be done together or that umrah could be done during the hajj season). When we reached 'be', he invaded the rukn (i.e. Hacer-i Esved) and circumambulated with three laps of fast and four laps of normal walking. Then, go to the station of Ibrahim (Aleyhisselâm) (And get a place of prayer from Ibrahim's station. ) He recited verse 135. Then he took the maqam between him and the Kaaba (and stood behind the maqam and prayed two rak'ahs). He would also recite the suras of Kafirun and Ihlas (after Fatiha). (I know that my father narrated this only from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). – In other words, it was narrated that it was the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) who recited the aforementioned surahs, not Jabir—(Jabir continued his narration:) Then the Prophet said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) turned to the Ka’ba and used the rukn (i.e. Hajar-i Eswad). Then (Safa) went out through the door (Sin) to Safa. Finally, when he approached Safa; He recited the verse "Surely Safa and Marwa are among the signs of Allah (menâsik)" and started from Safa (sa'y) by saying: "We start from the hill of Safa (Sa'y)," and started the Ka'ba. He climbed on top of Safa Hill until he saw it. Then he uttered takbîr, tahlil and praised and said; There is no other god (worthy of worship). He is one. He has no partner. The property is His. All praise is also His. Revive and Kill. He is omnipotent. There is no god (worthy of worship) except Allah. He is one. He has no partners. He fulfilled his promise (he gave to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)), gave victory to his servant, and defeated the enemy factions by himself. Meanwhile, he prayed and repeated this dhikr three times. Then he descended from Safa Hill and walked towards Merve. When he finished his descent and reached the middle of the stream, he walked fast. When his feet came out of the stream, he continued walking normally until he reached the Merve Hill (again). He did what he did on Safa on Merve, as well. If I had known at the beginning of its permissibility as I know it now, I would not have sent my sacrifice (to Mecca) and I would have converted the hajj that I started ihram to umrah. They got out of the ihram and shortened their hair. Only the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and those who had a sacrifice did not leave the ihram. n Judgment stood up and said: Messenger of Allah! Is this work (i.e. performing umrah during the hajj months or converting the hajj to umrah) only for this year or will it continue forever? she asked. Jabir said: Upon this question, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) interlocked the fingers of one hand with the fingers of the other hand and thus joined the pilgrimage (like my interlocked fingers). Umrah was thus included in the pilgrimage. No (not for this year) . On the contrary, it will continue forever.) He said: Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) brought the camels of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (from Yemen). He found Fâtime (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) in the place of those who came out of the ihram, dressed in dyed clothes and with kohlrabi on his eyes. Ali (radiyallahu anh) objected to Fatima's leaving Ihram. Fatima said: My father ordered me to leave. When Ali (radiyallahu anh) was in Iraq (caliph), he used to say: I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to scold Fatima for what she did and to oppose what she did. I went to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to ask for a fatwa. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): He spoke the truth, he spoke the truth. What did you say when you were intending for the pilgrimage?) I said: Whatever the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) intended, I intended for it, and gave the answer. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (to me): I have a sacrificial animal with me. (That is why I cannot leave Ihram) You (also) do not leave Ihram. He said: The total of the sacrifices Ali (radiyallahu anh) brought from Yemen and the sacrifices brought by the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) from Medina were one hundred. Then everyone got out of the ihram and shortened their hair. Only the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and those who had sacrifices with him did not leave the ihram. Then, when it was the eighth day of Dhul-Hijjah and when they were going to move towards Minâ (those who had left ihram), they entered ihram with the intention of pilgrimage. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got on his animal and went to Mina. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the noon, afternoon, evening and night prayers (of that day) and the morning prayer (the next day) in Mina. Then he waited for a while until the sun came up and ordered that a tent of hair be set up for him in Namira (the place called Arafat). Then the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) set off (from Minâ to Namira). The Quraysh did not doubt that he would make a dedication near Meş'ar-i Haram or in Muzdalifa (any other place) (that is, he would not go to Arafat), as they had done in the era of ignorance. However, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (contrary to the opinion of the Quraysh) passed Muzdalifah and arrived at Arafat (in’s relative). He found the tent set up for himself in Nemire and went down there. Finally, when the sun shifted to the west in the middle of the sky (that is, at noon), he ordered the preparation of the Kasvâ (camel) camel. Thereupon, the kasva was saddled up. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) got on and reached the middle of the stream (called Urana). He delivered a sermon to the people there and said: Just as this day of your (Arafah) is holy in your (Zil-Hijjah) month (in your city of Mecca) (that is, committing sins in this place and time is gravely forbidden), your blood and property are also forbidden to you (that is, each other's). It is strictly forbidden for you to shed your blood and to take each other's property unjustly, everywhere and at all times. The blood of the age of ignorance is false (that is, there is no short, diet or expiation). The feud I canceled is the feud of Rebia, son of (my uncle) al-Haris. (The deceased was a foster mother in the Banu Sa'd tribe, the Huzayl tribe killed him). —According to the authentic narration, the person who was killed was Iyâs, son of Rebianut — The interest of the period of ignorance is also invalid (ie the transaction related to it is invalid). The first interest I canceled is our interest, that of my (my uncle) Abbas bin Abdulmuttalib. Because all interest is void. Fear Allah about women. Because no doubt you received them with the trust of Allah (that is, the covenant of good behavior). You have made their chastity lawful for yourselves by the word of Allah (that is, by the order or marriage contract). Undoubtedly, it is your right on them that they do not set foot on your mats (i.e. your houses) with those you dislike. If they do (that is, let any man or woman you dislike enter your home, whether private or not), beat them in a way that does not harm them. It is their right on you to give their alimony and clothing in a well-known way (ie, according to your situation or normally). I have left you something that if you hold on tightly to it, you will not go astray (that is, you will not deviate from the path of Paradise. What I have left for you) is the book of Allah. I (on the Day of Judgment) will be asked of you. I wonder what you will say?) The Companions said: We testify that he conveyed (things) and fulfilled his duties properly and gave advice (to the Ummah). Thereupon, the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) raised his index finger to the sky, then bent it towards the people, and said three times: “Be a witness, my God, my God, my God.” After this sermon, Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) recited the Adhan. Then he resided. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) led the noon prayer (two rak'ahs). Then Bilal (again) resided. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) led the afternoon prayer (in two rak'ahs). (In other words, he performed the noon and afternoon obligatory orders in the form of Cem-i Takdim one after the other). The Messenger of God did not perform any other prayer between these two prayers. After that, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) rode (on his camel) and came to the place of foundation (that is, to the foot of Mount Rahmet). He turned his camel's chest to rocks. He crossed the path of pedestrians and turned to the qibla. He stood there until the evening for foundation. Finally, the yellowness of the sun disappeared a little and he continued the foundation until the sun disappeared completely. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) left Usama bin Zayd and departed from there (to Muzdalifah). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) tightened the bridle of his camel (called qaswa) so much that the camel's head almost touched the skin on the front of the saddle, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) pointed with his right hand: People, do not leave the calm, do not leave the calm (i.e. do not rush) ) commanded. As he came to one of the dunes, he loosened the bridle of his camel until he reached the plain. Finally arrived in Muzdalifah. He led the evening and night prayers there with one adhan and two iqamahs. (That is, he led these two prayers in the form of Cem-i Tehir) And he did not perform any other prayers between them. Then the Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) stretched out until the dawn. When the dawn was born, he led the morning prayer with one adhan and one residence. Then he got on Kasvâ and came to Meş'ari Harâm. It went up on the mountain. There he praised Allah (turning to the qibla), uttered takbir and said tawhid (that is, al-Hamdu lillahi Vellahu Akbar and La ilaha illallah said). He continued to do the foundation there until it became clear. Then, before the sun had risen, he set out from there and took Fadl bin Abbas for his departure. Fadl was a handsome, white-skinned person with beautiful hair. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) set out, some women ran past him. Fadl began to stare at them. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) placed his hand on the other side (Fadl's face). Fadl turned his face that way, too. Finally, the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) arrived at Muhassir stream (between Muzdalifah and Minâ) and speeded up his (camel) a little. Then he entered the middle road that took you to the great cemre and finally arrived at the (big) cemre next to the tree (it is also called the Aqaba cemre). He threw seven pebbles (to the cemre) like a flick. Each time he throws the pebble, he utters takbir (that is, Allahu Akbar). He threw the stones from the middle of the stream. Then he returned to the slaughterhouse. He slaughtered 63 camels with his own hand. Then he gave the (knife) to Ali. Ali (by his order) slaughtered the remaining camel. The Messenger -i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made Ali a partner in their sacrifice. Then he ordered that one piece of meat be taken from each camel. These were put in a pot and cooked. They both ate the meat of the camels and drank the broth. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ) went down to Ka'ba (from Minâ for circumambulation in tawaf). He performed the noon prayer (after tawaf) in Mecca. Then he went to the sons of Abdulmuttalib, who was pouring water on the Zamzam (well), and (to them: water) Come out, O sons of Muttalib. If it were not for the fear that the people will stampede you about your water extraction, I would also bring water with you (that is, if I bring water, the people may think that it is menasis and hinder your work by creating a stampede). Then they offered him a bucket of water, and he drank from it.
3191-) - “... We set out on a journey in the company of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) with the intention of three types of pilgrimage. Some of us entered ihram by intending to perform Hajj and Umrah together. Some of us went to pilgrimage alone. Some of us went into the ihram of Umrah alone. Those who entered the ihram to perform the hajj and umrah together did not leave the ihram until they completed the pilgrimage. Those who entered ihram with the intention of hajj alone did not leave the ihram until they finished the hajj rituals, and those who entered ihram only with the intention of pilgrimage, after circumambulating the Ka'ba and sa'y between Safa and Marwa, left the ihram with the intention of hajj in the future. "
3192-) - “... from Sufyan(-i Sevrî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) made the pilgrimage three times: He performed two Hajj before he migrated and one after he migrated from Medina. He combined his pilgrimage and umrah after the Hijra (that is, he made the Hajj-ı Kıran). The sacrifices brought by the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the sacrifices brought by Ali (from Yemen) amounted to one hundred camels (in this pilgrimage). One of these camels was Abu Jahl's male camel, which had a silver ring on its nose. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) killed 63 of them with his own hand. Ali also strangled the rest. Who told (you) this hadith? He was asked: He narrated it from his father, and his father from Jabir (radiyallahu anh). Ibn Abi Layla narrated from al-Hakam, this from Miqsam, and Miksam from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ).
3193-) - “... From Hajjaj bin Amr al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh): He said: I heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: After entering, a person whose body is broken or limped can go out of ihram. and he is obliged to make pilgrimage in the next year. ) ... (Râvî) I narrated this to Ibn Abbas and Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anhum). These; They said that Hajjaj told the truth.
3195-) - “... From Abdullah bin Rafi Mevla Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha); He said: I asked Hajjaj bin Amr (al-Ansariy) the issue of prohibiting a person with ihram (from completing the obligatory rituals). Upon this, Hajjaj said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: After entering) a person whose body is broken or who gets sick or limping can leave his ihram and will be obliged to make pilgrimage next year.) ... (Râvî) Ikrima said: I narrated this to Ibn Abbas and Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anhum). These; They said that Hajjaj told the truth. Abdürrezzak said: I found this hadith in the minor book of Hisham, the owner of Destevâi, and took it to Ma'mer. Ma'mer read it to me or I read it to him. "
3197-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ma'kil (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: I sat next to Ka'b bin Ucre (radiy-Allâhu anh) in the Masjid (in Kufa) and told him; I asked about the verse, "A ransom from fasting or charity or sacrifice is required". Ka'b said: The verse was revealed about me. (While I was in the ihram of Umrah in Hudaybiyyah), I had a headache. I was taken to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) with lice falling on my face (from my head). The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to me): I did not think he had reached the state I see. Can you find a sheep?) he asked. I replied: Thereupon, the following verse was revealed: "Fasting is three days. Charity is for six poor people to give half an hour of food to each poor person. The sacrifice is a sheep."
3198-) - “... from Ka'b bin ücre (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) when lice afflicted me. He ordered me to shave my head and fast for three days (as ransom) or to feed six poor people, and He knew that the animal I was going to sacrifice was not with me. "
3199-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) received cupping while he was fasting and in Ihram. "
3200-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) received cupping due to a foot ailment he was caught while in Ihram. "
3201-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): While he was in Ihram, he used to rub olive oil on his head, which had not been fragrant. "
3202-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: While a man was in ihram during his pilgrimage, his camel (dropped him to the ground) broke his neck (and the man died immediately). Thereupon, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Wash with water and sidr and shroud him in his two ihrams and do not wrap a cloth over his face or head. Because he. On the Day of Judgment, he will be resurrected by reciting the Lebbeyk prayer). ... The like of this hadith has been narrated to us from Ibn Abbas with a copy of ..... However, in this year, the narrator; . . . . . . He said, and do not bring near the fragrance of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Because he. He will be resurrected on the Day of Judgment by saying "Lebbeyk"). "
3204-) - “... From Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered a ram (punishment) for hunting hyenas (crime) of the ihram and made the hyena one of the game animals. "
3205-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There is a price (ransom) for that egg because of hunting (crime) of an ostrich egg.” "
3206-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There are five kinds of animals that are killed on the hill (except for the Haram) and in the Harem: Snake, ebka (that is, white or black on its belly or back), crow, mouse. akur (biting) dog and rookie. ) "
3207-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There are five types of animals that walk on his face, and there is no sin for anyone who kills them while in ihram (or he said, killing them): scorpion, crow, rookie, mouse and kelb-i akur (that is, biting) dog or predator). )
3208-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); no one kills the snake, the scorpion, the aggressive predator, the kelb-i akur and the fâsıkcik mouse). Said-i Hudri was asked why the mouse was called fuveysika (fasikcik). Abu Said replied: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) woke up because of this (one night) while the mouse was dragging an oily, burnt rag to burn the house. "
3209-) - “... from Sa'b bin Cessâme (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: While I was in Abwa or Waddan, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) stopped by me. So I gave him a wild donkey as a gift: But he gave it back to me (without acceptance). Then when he saw the signs of sadness and hurt on my face, he said: There is no returning your (gift) to you. However, we are in ihram. )
3210-) - “... from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: An awati was brought to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) while he was in ihram. But the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not eat it. "
3211-) - “... According to what is reported from Talha bin Ubeydullah (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave him a wild donkey and ordered him to divide it among his friends even though they were in ihram. "
3212-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abi Qatade's father (Abu Qatada al-Ansari) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: During the time of Hudaybiya (his journey), I (also) went on a (journey) with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). The friends of the Messenger of God were ihram. But I was not ihram. Then (on the road) I saw a wild donkey. I immediately attacked and hunted him down. Then I explained the condition of the animal to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and to state that I was not ihram (while hunting it); I said, I hunted this for you (O Messenger of Allah). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered his friends to eat it. But when I said that I was hunting for His Prophet's, he did not eat from it. "
3213-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to send sacrifices (to Mecca) from Medina. So I was twisting (and preparing) threads to be hung around His victim's neck. After sending the victims to Mecca, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not avoid any of the things that a person with Ihram avoids. "
3214-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He said: I was twisting the ropes that would be attached to the neck of the sacrifice (which he wanted to send to Mecca) of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He also wore these ropes around his victim's neck. Then he was sending him (to Mecca). Then he was residing (in Madinah) without avoiding any of the things that the ihram person avoids. "
3215-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) once sent sacrificial trophies (sheep or goats) to the Ka'ba and put the signs of sacrifice on their necks. "
3216-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (in the Farewell pilgrimage) he engaged the right side of the hump of the sacrificial camel (with a knife) and cleaned the (flowing) blood. In his own narration, Ali said: This happened in Dhu'l-Hulayfa and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wore two shoes on his camel's neck as a sign of sacrifice. "
3217-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wore the symbol of sacrifice around his neck, engaged it and sent it (to Mecca). "
3218-) - “... from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered me to supervise his camels (the sacrifice he sent to Mecca in his farewell pilgrimage), to distribute their saddles and their skins (to the poor), and not to give any of the camels (as a wage) to the kassab, and said: (the price of) we (we) give away) said. "
3219-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) he sent a male camel of Abu Jahl, whose nose ring was made of silver, to Mecca as a sacrifice, as a sacrificial camel. "
3220-) - “... According to what is reported from Iyâs bin Salama's father (Salama) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): There was also a male camel among the sacrificial camels (sent to the Haram) by (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) . "
3222-) - “... It is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh). According to this: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw a man sending his sacrificial camel (he was going on foot). Thereupon he said (to the man): one thousand). The man said: The camel is for sacrifice, (how should I ride it?). Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Bless you. Ride the camel) commanded. "
3223-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): A sacrificial camel was passed by (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (To the one who takes the camel): ride. The man replied: The camel is for sacrifice. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): thousand), said. He said: "Then I saw the man with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) while he was on his camel. A shoe was attached to the camel's neck. "
3224-) - "... According to what is reported from Zueyb al-Khuzai (radiy-Allâhu anh), he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was sending sacrificial camels (to Mecca) with him and said: time, you immediately choke him, and after dipping the shoe (attached around his neck) into his blood, strike him on the hump (so that it is known to be Sacrificial). Neither you nor anyone in the company accompanying you should eat from its meat. )
3225-) - “... Naciye al-Huzâî (Amr said in his own narration: Naciye was the one who accompanied the sacrificial camels of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam).) From (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: O Messenger of Allah! What should I do with the one who is in danger of dying from sacrificial camels? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Throat and after dipping the shoe (attached to his neck) in his blood, hit him on his hump (so that it is known that it is a sacrifice). And leave it to the public. Let the people eat it). "
3226-) - “... from Alkama bin Nadla (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abu Bakr and Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) passed away, although he came to their house only to be told that it is not the property of the residents, but left to those in need. Whoever is in need (home) stays (in Meccan houses), and whoever is not in need makes those in need sit (without rent)"
3228-) - “... From Safiyya bint-i Shayba (radiyallahu anha); He said: I heard the sermon of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in the year of the conquest of Mecca. In his sermon: people! On the day when Allah created the heavens and the earth, he certainly made Mecca unlawful (i.e. join there and forbid any form of disrespect). Now Mecca is haram until the Day of Judgment. (That is:) His tree is not cut down, his hunt is not disturbed, and no one other than the munshid (who promotes the property on the ground) picks it up (from the ground). He (radiyallahu anh) said: Except for izhir (grass), because it is for houses and graves. (that is, he wished to be exempted.) The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: This is excluded from the provision. "
3229-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ayyas bin Abi Rebia al-Mahzumi (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The ummah will continue in a good way as long as they honor this respect (the symbols of hajj and umrah). When they lose this compensation, they will perish. )
3230-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Faith gathers in Madina as it gathers in its home. )
3231-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he can die in Madina (by settling down and sitting there until he dies), let him do it (that is, let him stay there until he dies). Because I certainly testify (that is, intercede) for the person who dies there. )
3232-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (O Allah, Ibrahim (Alayhis Salam) is your friend and prophet, and you have made Makkah haram (forbidden to cut down a venerable tree or a tree, to disturb your prey, to take its lukata, qatar) at the request of Ibrahim. O Allah! I am your servant and your prophet. I also forbid the area between these two labs of Medina (in the same way).
3233-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he wants to harm the people of Medina, Allah will dissolve that person (destroy) as salt dissolves in water." )
3234-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: No doubt, it is a mountain that loves us and we love, and it is above a garden from the gardens of Paradise. Ayr (mountain) is on one of the gates of Hell. )
3236-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "If he meets the month of Ramadan in Mecca and fasts and spends the night as much as he can afford, Allah writes for him the reward of fasting for the month of Ramadan one hundred thousand outside of Mecca, and Allah rewards him for each day and each night. He writes the thawab of freeing a slave. For each day, he writes down the reward of a horse (enemy) attack in the way of Allah. Likewise, he writes one hasene every day and one hasene every night.)
3237-) - “... from Dâvûd bin Aclân (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: We circumambulated the Ka'be-i Mu-azzama with Abu Ikal in a rainy time. When we finished our circumambulation, we came to the back of Ibrahim (Aleyhis Salam)'s station. Then Abu Ikal said: I circumambulated the Ka'ba with Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh) in a rainy time. Then, when we finished our circumambulation, we came to Ibrahim and prayed two rak'ahs. Then Enes said to us: Renew the work (i.e. circumambulation), you are forgiven. When we were circumambulating with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) once in a rainy time, he said, 'The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to us like this. "
3238-) - “... from Abu Said (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made the pilgrimage. His Companions were on foot from Medina to Mecca. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to them): fasten your bizars (i.e. loincloths) around your waist), and sometimes walked slowly, sometimes fast (or ordered them to walk like that). "
3239-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to sacrifice two calico rams with two horns on Eid al-Adha and (when he was going to slaughter the victims) “Bismillah! by Allahu Akbar” he would say. And I have certainly seen him cutting off his foot with his own hand, stepping on the (right) sides of the sacrifices. '
3240-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sacrificed two rams on a day of Eid-al-Adha, and when he turned them towards the qibla, he said: “I turned away from all religions and was on the religion of Abraham (i.e. Islam) and was not one of the polytheists, but (Allah) who created the heavens and the earth. Undoubtedly, I turned to him with all my heart. Undoubtedly, my prayer, all my other worships, my life (that is, the deeds I have done throughout my life) and my death (that is, the faith and deed I carried when the state of death was approaching) is for Allah, the Lord of the worlds. He has no partners. I have only been commanded with this (that is, with tawhid and sincerity) and I am the first of the Muslims. O Allah, (this sacrifice) is a blessing from you (to me) and it is only for you (your consent) from Muhammad and his nation (by you).
3241-) - “... from Aisha and Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) when he wanted to sacrifice an animal on Eid-al-Adha, he would buy two rams, large, fat, double-horned, calico and sprained balls. He strangled one of them instead of his umma (that is, the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) community who testified to the oneness of Allah, and the other instead of the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) family'. . "
3242-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A person (whose financial situation is suitable for sacrificing) but does not sacrifice on Eid al-Adha should not approach our Musalla (the place where we pray). ) ... ..... From Mihnef bin Sulaym (radiyallahu anh); He said: We were standing next to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) in Arafat (in his farewell pilgrimage). He said: people! Undoubtedly, there is an udhiyya (a sacrifice sacrificed on the day of Eid-al-Adha) and an atîre on every household every year. Do you know what Atire is? Atîre is the (qurban) that the people call Recebiyya. )
3246-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: His son did not do anything more beloved to Allah (Azza wa Jalla) than shedding blood on the day of Eid-al-Adha. Surely he (that is, the slaughtered sacrifice) will come on the Day of Judgment with his horns, nails and hair. Undoubtedly, the blood of the sacrifice is accepted by Allah (Azza wa Jalla) before it falls to the ground. Now (when his reward is like this), let your hearts be pleasant (not distressed) with qurban (for slaughter). )
3247-) - “... from Zayd bin Erkam (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); O Messenger of Allah! What are these udhiyyas (i.e. the sacrifices sacrificed during the feast)? they said. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) replied, “It is the sunnah of your father, Ibrahim.” Companions: Okay. What (reward) is there for us in sacrifices? They said: O Messenger of Allah. Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There is a hasene for every hair.” Companions: What about wool? they said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There is a hasene (there is) for each grain. "
3251-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey. The day of Eid-al-Adha has come. We became partners in the camel as ten and in the cattle as seven (that is, we slaughtered the sacrifices). "
3252-) - “... From Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was with him in Hudaybiye (Umra), we slaughtered the camel on behalf of seven people and the cattle on behalf of seven people (as sacrifice). "
3253-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had a cattle (to be divided) between them instead of his wives who received dividends (i.e., first Umrah and then pilgrimage) during the Farewell pilgrimage. he choked. "
3254-) - “... From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) camels decreased while he was alive. Thereupon, he ordered the Companions to slaughter cattle. "
3255-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sacrificed a single cattle instead of Muhammad’s (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) Âl (wives) during the Farewell pilgrimage. . "
3256-) - “... According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), a man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “I have a camel (strangling debt) on my neck and I have the ability to buy a camel.” But I can't find a camel so I can buy it, he said. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered him to buy seven cattle and slaughter them. "
3257-) - “... from Rafi' bin Hadic (radiyallahu anh); He said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) in Dhu'l-Hulayfa (the place called) of Tihama (in Yemen). At that time we captured a lot of camels and cattle (belonging to the enemy). Our friends (some of them) hastened, and we started cooking (slaughtered and meat from animals) in pots before these animals (which were booty goods) were yet distributed. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came to us and the pots were turned upside down (that is, the contents spilled out) at his command. Then (while the animals were being divided) the Messenger of God made the camel equivalent to ten cattle. "
3259-) - “... According to what is reported from the father of Umm Bilal bint-i Hilal (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is permissible for a lamb to be sacrificed for Eid al-Fitr (a strong lamb who has completed six months and is no different from one year old). ) "
3260-) - “... From Asim bin Kuleyb's father (Kuleyb bin Shihab) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: We were together with a person named Müşaci', one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and one of the sons of Sulaym. . The cattle (at that time) were few. Thereupon, Müşâji ordered a man. The man (to the people) made the following announcement: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was commanding that the punishment (that is, a strong lamb that is no different than a six-month-old and one-year-old lamb) was sufficient for the thing that saniyya (i.e. a sheep that has reached the age of two) was sufficient. "
3261-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiyallahu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Slaughter (as a sacrifice) only the musinna (i.e. the older animal). Unless it's hard for you to cut it (due to not being able to find it). In that case, you can slaughter a sheep from its type (that is, a lamb that has completed six months and is seen as strong and indistinguishable from a year old). )
3262-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), an animal whose front part of its ear is cut off or the back of its ear is cut off or whose ear is split lengthwise and divided into two, or whose ear is pierced or whose nose is cut off. He forbade sacrifice on Eid. "
3263-) - “... from Ali (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered us to look closely at the eyes and ears of the animal (to be sacrificed) and to examine it (that is, to examine whether there are any defects in these two organs). "
3264-) - “... from Ubayd bin Fayruz (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I said to Barâ bin Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh): Tell me about the sacrifices that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not like or forbade. Thereupon, Barâ said: He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) pointed to (the number four) with his hand. My hand is shorter than his hand, and he said: There is an animal that cannot be sacrificed: the one-eyed animal that is clearly invisible to one eye, the sick animal with obvious disease, the lame animal whose lameness is clearly visible, and the animal that has no marrow in its bones and is very weak. ) bin Fayrûz (Barâ'a) said: I do not like if there is a defect in the ear of the sacrificial animal. Bara (in response to this): Let go of the (animal) that you do not like (to be sacrificed) (that is, you do not sacrifice). But do not forbid it to anyone, he said. "
3265-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade sacrificing an animal whose horn or ear was more than half cut off. "
3266-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: We bought a ram for sacrifice. Then the wolf grabbed a piece of his tail (or whole) or ear. We asked the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about the situation. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us to sacrifice him. "
3267-) - “... From Ata bin Yasar (radiyallahu anh); He said to Abu Ayyub al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh): How were your Eid sacrifices (in terms of number) when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was alive? I asked. Abu Ayyub (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) when he was alive, a man used to sacrifice a piece of cattle for himself and his household on Eid, they would eat (from it) and feed him. He said, "After that period, the people began to take pride (by sacrificing a large number of victims) and the situation turned into what you see," he said. " '..... From Abu Sariha (Huzeyfe bin Esid) (radiyallahu anh): He said: After knowing the sunnah, my household forced me (to slaughter a large number of victims). (if we are content with sacrificing one or two cattle) our neighbors will accuse us of stinginess."
3269-) - “... According to what is narrated from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When the first ten days of the month enter and one of you wants to sacrifice on Eid, he should not touch anything of his own body's hair and skin (until he slaughters his sacrifice). )
3270-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Whoever sees the crescent moon of Dhul-Hijjah and wants to sacrifice during the Eid, should not approach the hair and nails on his body (until he slaughters the victim). )
3271-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh): the man sacrificed a sacrifice on the first day of the Eid-al-Adha, that is, before the Eid prayer. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered him to return the sacrifice (that is, to sacrifice again). "
3272-) - “... From Jundeb (bin Abdillah bin Sufyan) al-Beceli (radiyallahu anh); He said: I was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on the first day of Eid-al-Adha. Some people slaughtered their victims before the Eid prayer. Thereupon, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Whoever sacrificed his sacrifice before the Eid prayer should return his sacrifice (that is, let him sacrifice again). And whoever hasn't cut it yet, let him say Bismillah. )
3273-) - “... According to what is reported from Uveymir bin Ashkar (radiyallahu anh), he sacrificed his sacrifice before the Eid prayer and then presented the situation to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Sacrifice. "
3274-) - “... From Abu Zayd al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) passed by one of the Ansar's houses and smelled the smell of meat being cooked, so he asked: Who is the man who slaughtered him? One of us went before him and said: O Messenger of Allah. He said, 'I slaughtered my victim before I performed the Eid prayer so that I could feed my children and neighbors (meat). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered the man to sacrifice again. The man said: I swear by Allah, there is no other god, that there is no (an animal that I will sacrifice). He said, "There is no one else with me except the punishment (i.e. a small animal) or a lamb." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Slaughter, but it will not suffice for punishment for anyone after you (that is, it cannot be a sacrifice").
3275-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) strangling him with his own hand, stepping on the side of his victim (right). "
3276-) - “... According to what is reported from Sa'd (bin Aiz al-Karaz) (radiy-Allâhu anh), the muezzin of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) strangled him with a sharp knife on the side of the street with his own hand. "
3277-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to himself. He ordered the Harem Sharif (in the Farewell Pilgrimage) to distribute the meat, skins and sackcloth of all his victims to the poor. "
3278-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered that a piece of meat be taken from each camel he sacrificed. The (collected) meat was placed in a pot and cooked. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and those with him ate meat and drank the broth. "
3279-) - “... According to what is reported from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade (hiding) the meat of the sacrifices due to the financial difficulties of the people. Then (when there was no problem) he gave permission for (to keep) the meat of the sacrifice. ..... According to what is narrated from Nubeysha (bin Abdillah bin Amr) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I forbade you from (i.e., keeping and eating) sacrificial meat for more than three days. Eat and store after that. )
3281-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), my victim was strangled in Musalla (that is, in the area where he led the Eid prayer). "
3282-) - “... From Umm Kurz (radiy-Allâhu anha): He said: I heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: Two sheep (in age) equivalent to each other are slaughtered for a baby, and a sheep for a girl baby. ) "'....From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered us to slaughter two sheep for a boy and a sheep for a girl as aqiqa. )
3284-) - “... According to what is reported from Salman bin Amir (ed-Dabba) (radiyallahu anh), he heard the following command from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam): There is an aqiqa with the (born) baby. In this respect, shed akika blood on his behalf and remove the persecution from the baby.)
3285-) ... According to what is reported from Samura (bin Jundub) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Every baby is held in a pledge against his death. On the seventh day of his birth, his akika is strangled in his name)
3286-) - “... According to what is reported from Yazid bin Abd al-Muzeni (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Aqîka (a sacrifice called) is slaughtered in its name, but aqiqa blood is not touched to the baby’s head. )
3287-) - “... According to what is narrated from Nubeysha (radiy-Allâhu anh); A man called to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlullah! During the period of ignorance, we used to slaughter an atîre (a sacrifice named) in the month of Rajab. What do you order us? said. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Sacrifice (that is, you can sacrifice it) in any month (for the sake of Azza wa Jalla), obey Allah and feed (to the poor). Companions: Messenger of Allah! We used to slay the first calf of a camel (in the name of idols) in the era of ignorance. What would you order us about it? they said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: On the other hand, sâime (a hundred herd of camels, cattle or sheep that makes their living by grazing most of the year) has a young (sacrifice) fed by your flock. When this baby reaches the age of mating (or carrying a load), you can slaughter it and give its meat as charity (ravi said: I think my sheikh said: You can give charity to those who are on the way.) Surely this is a good thing. "
3288-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): There is neither feraa nor atire (that is, these sacrifices are not wajib). ) Hisham also narrated the following in his hadith: It is the first calf of a camel. It is the case that the household of Atîre slaughtered at the same time in Rajab. "
3289-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There is neither feraa nor atîre (that is, these sacrifices are not wâjib). Macete said: This hadith (my sheikh) is one of the hadiths narrated by al-Madani alone (that is, not narrated by my other sheikhs). "
3290-) - “... According to what is reported from Shaddad bin Evs (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (Azza wa Jalla) certainly ordered ihsan (that is, to behave well and gentle) about everything, (or he put ihsan above everything else). In this respect, when you are going to kill (someone in short or hadd) do it well (that is, in the easiest way for the victim), and when you are going to slaughter (animal), do it well. Let one of you sharpen his knife (with whom he will slaughter an animal) and comfort the animal he has slaughtered. )
3291-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): the day the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) passed by a man. The man was dragging a cow by the ear. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to the man: Let go of your ear and grab the side of your neck). "
3292-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered to sharpen the knives and to hide them from animals, saying: when he slaughters the animal, he should slaughter it quickly. ...
3294-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He; . . . . . . . "And surely the devils whisper to their friends, and he said about the verse: The polytheists used to say (referring to the devils whispering to them): Do not eat the slaughtered animals on which the name of Allah is mentioned (respecting Allah), and eat the animals on which Allah's name is not mentioned. (Azza wa Jalla) said, "Do not eat animals on which Allah's name is not mentioned."
3295-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the mother of believers; He said: people said: Messenger of Allah! Some people bring us (cut) meat. We do not know whether the name of Allah is mentioned on it (while the animal is being slaughtered). (What is commanded in this situation)? they said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Say and eat (meat). Those who brought meat had just become Muslims (that is, they did not know much about the Shari'a provisions). "
3296-) - “... From Muhammad bin Sayfi (radiyallahu anh); He said: (once) I slaughtered two rabbits with a merve (a white stone as sharp as a knife). Then I took the rabbits to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). He ordered me to eat these. "
3297-) - “... According to what is reported from Zayd bin Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh): times, a wolf bit a sheep with its canine teeth, then the owners of the cattle slaughtered the sheep with a merve (a sharp, white stone called a knife). Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) allowed them to eat the meat of that animal. "
3298-) - “... from Adi bin Hatim (radiyallahu anh); He said: (once): Messenger of Allah, we hunt prey but cannot find knives. However, I said, (what is the order?) that we find the sharp part of the stick, which is divided into two (longitudinally) or zirâr (hard and sharp stone). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Flow well with whatever you want and mention Allah's name on it (while slaughtering the animal). "
3299-) - “...From Rafi bin Hadic (radiyallahu anh); He said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey. I (at a moment) said: Messenger of Allah, we are in wars and we do not have knives with us. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Eat the meat of an animal that has been slaughtered with something that sheds blood by mentioning the name of Allah, but do not eat that which is slaughtered with a tooth or nail. Because a tooth is a bone. Nails are the knives of the (infidel) Abyssinian people). "
3300-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) passed by a man who was peeling the skin of a sheep. Meanwhile, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to the man, "So that I will show you the method of peeling the skin." , peel the skin like this). Then he passed by and led the congregation in prayer without making wudu (that is, renewing it).
3301-) - “... . According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) a person (named Ebü’l Heysem Malik bin et-Tayyihan (radiy-Allâhu anh)) from the Ansâr went (as a guest). The man bought a knife for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to slaughter an animal. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered the man: Do not slaughter a milking animal. "
3302-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Bakr bin Abi Kuhafa (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to himself and to Umar (bin al-Khattab): Come to al-Waqifi together. Abu Bakr said: We went (together with the Messenger of God) in the moonlight. Finally we reached the garden of al-Wakifi. Al-Vâkıfî said: ahlen. (that is, he expressed his joy by saying welcome) . Then he took a knife and wandered through the herd of cattle. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (to him): Avoid slaughtering (that is, an animal with milk), or (avoid slaughtering an animal with milk). "
3303-) - “... According to what is reported from Ka'b bin Malik (radiyallahu anh): A woman slaughtered a cattle (sheep or goat) with a sharp stone, then the situation was told to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not see any harm in this. "
3304-) - “... From Rafi bin Hadic (radiyallahu anh); He said: We were with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) on a journey (on his return from the battle of Hunayn). A camel escaped. (He left those who went to catch him helpless). Then a man shot an arrow at him. (Allah killed the camel with that arrow). Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: These (domesticated) animals have astonishing habits. )
3305-) - “... From Abu'l Ushara's baha (radiyallahu anhuma): He said: O Messenger of Allah, the religious slaughter of an animal is only in the throat or the lebbe (that is, the part of the neck closest to the chest) (isn't it? ) is said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ; If you hit him in the thigh, it will suffice for you.) "
3306-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade musle (that is, torture and torment) animals. "
3307-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade the practice of sabr (that is, tying animals up and targeting them with arrows, stones and the like) until they die. "
3308-) - "... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Do not aim at anything that contains a spirit.”
3309-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade killing any animal by targeting it (that is, by torture and torment). "
3310-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade the meat and milk of the cellâle (animals that eat feces). "
3313-) - “... From Abu Ishaq al-Shaybani (radiyallahu anh); He said: I asked Abdullah bin Ebî Evfâ (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) about the ruling on the meat of domestic donkeys. He replied: On the day of the (war) hunger caught us, we were with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Some people obtained (domesticated) donkeys from outside of Medina. We slaughtered them and our pots (with their meat) were boiling. At this very moment, the caller of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) announced: “Turn over and do not taste anything from the meat of (domestic) donkeys.” So we knocked over our pots (i.e. spilled the cooking meats). Ishaq al-Shaybani said:) I asked Abdullah bin Abi Awfa: Did he (did he) make it (that is, the meat of domestic donkeys) absolutely unlawful? said. Abdullah bin Abi Awfa. We (companions) talked among ourselves and said: Because domestic donkeys eat excrement, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) definitely (that is, constantly) made it haram. "
3314-) - “... According to what is reported from Mıkdâm bin Madikerib al-Kindi (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade certain things and finally mentioned domestic donkeys (in this context). "
3315-) - “... From Berâ bin Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered us to dispose of the raw and cooked meat of domesticated donkeys. After that, he did not order us to eat it. "
3316-) - “... From Salama bin al-Ekva' (radiyallahu anh); He said: We participated in the Battle of Khaybar with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). In the evening (on the day Khaybar was conquered), the Companions lit (many) fires. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked: Are you lighting a fire for it? The Companions replied: It is about to cook the meat of domestic donkeys. Upon this answer, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Pour it out and break the pots too.) One of the Companions: Do we spill what is in the pots and wash the pots? He said (In other words, he asked whether it is PERmissible to wash the pots without breaking them). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (Or do as you say).
3317-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): The caller of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) announced: Because it is najis (dirty). )
3318-) - “... . According to what is narrated from Ata (radiyallahu anh): bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhu); “We ate horse meat,” he said. Ata (says) I said: What about mules (did you also eat the meat of the cow?). Jabir said: No. "
3319-) - “... According to what is reported from Khalid bin al-Walid (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prohibited the meat of horses, mules and donkeys. "
3320-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: We asked Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) the verdict of the fetus (that is, the baby in the womb of an animal whose flesh is eaten). Him: eat it. Because his cut is his mother's cut). "
3321-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mugaffel (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered to kill dogs. Then: What business do they have with dogs?) he said. He then gave people a license (that is, permission) to own a hunting dog. "
3322-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mugaffel (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered to kill dogs. Then: What business do they have with dogs?) he said. Later, he gave people a license to acquire agricultural dogs and al-iyn dogs. (That is, the sheikh of the author, Muhammed bin Beşşar) said: El-îyn is the gardens of Medina-i Münevvere. "
3323-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered to kill the dogs. "
3324-) - “... Salim's father (Abdullah bin Omar) (radiyallahu anhum)'. from; He said: I heard Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordering to kill the dogs by raising his voice, and the dogs except hunting and cattle dogs were killed. "
3325-) - “... From Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh). According to the rumor; Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “If he adopts a dog, one carat will be less than the good deed of that person every day. Unless that dog was an agricultural dog or a cattle dog.)
3326-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mugaffel (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “If it were not for a community of people, I would have ordered them to be killed. Now you kill the completely black one of them. There is no community that acquires dogs other than cattle dogs, hunting dogs, or agricultural dogs, so that two carats are not less than their reward every day.)
3327-) - “... From Sufyan bin Abi Zuhayr (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: If he acquires a dog that is of no use to his crops or his cattle, one carat will be reduced from his deeds every day.) To bin Abi Zuhayr: (This) Did you hear from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)? it was said. Sufyan replied: I swear by the Lord of the Masjid, yes (I heard from him). "
3328-) - “... From Abu Salebe al-Husheni (radiyallahu anh); He said: Arriving at the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) he said: We are in the land of a people from the People of the Book (in Damascus). We eat in their bowls. And we are in the hunting land, I hunt with my arrow, I hunt with my trained dog, and I hunt with my untrained dog, I said (What do you say?). Abu Sa'labe said: Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said (to me): The ruling against the matter you describe about being in the land of a people of the Book is this: Do not eat in the people of the People of the Book, as long as you can find containers other than those of theirs.)
3329-) - “... from Adi bin Hatim (radiyallahu anh); He said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) the verdict of this, saying: We are a group that hunts with dogs. They said: If they kill (the hunt) when you let your trained dogs go after the prey in the name of Allah, eat what they catch for you. Unless the dog eats (something from that hunt). If the dog eats (something from it), don't eat it anymore. Because I fear that the dog catches the prey for its own sake. If other dogs mingle with the dogs you have hunted, do not eat the prey they have killed.)
3330-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: We were barred from hunting their dog and bird, that is, the magi. "
3331-) - “... From Abu Zer(r-i Gifari) (radiyallahu anh): He said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) about his completely black dog. He said: (He is a devil.) "
3332-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Salebe al-Husheni (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to him): “Eat the prey you catch.”
3333-) - “... from Adi bin Hatim (radiyallahu anh); He said: I once said: Messenger of Allah! I said, "We are definitely an archer (that is, arrow-hunting) people." He said: When you shoot an arrow and pierce (it), eat the (prey) you pierced.)
3334-) - “... from Adi bin Hatim (radiyallahu anh); He said: once: Messenger of Allah! I shoot the hunt (arrow) and cannot find the prey overnight (ie I find it after a day or two. What is the order)? said. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Eat it if you find your own arrow in the hunt and if you cannot find anything else (the trace of it) in his body (which may cause his death).” "
3335-) - “... from Adi bin Hatim (radiyallahu anh); He said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about hunting with mi'raz. He said: The prey you hit with the sharp side and the prey you hit with the wide side is the position (that is, like an animal killed with an object such as a stone or stick).
3336-) - “... from Adi bin Hatim (radiyallahu anh); He said: I asked Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about mi’râz. He said: Do not eat the prey you hit with. Unless you injure the mi'râz (prey) and pierce his body. (So then eat it.)
3337-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If an eaten animal is cut off from its body while it is alive, the cut part is unclean.) (was sallam) said, he said: In the end, there will be a community that cuts off the humps of camels and the tails of sheep (while alive).
3339-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It has been made lawful for (believers) to eat two dead animals: fish and grasshoppers.)
3340-) - “... According to what is reported from Salman (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was asked about the ruling on eating grasshoppers and he said: They are most of Allah's soldiers (from birds). I do not eat the locust and do not make it unlawful to eat it.)
3341-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): The wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to present locusts to each other on plates. "
3342-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir and Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): When (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) curses the locust: Destroy the big grasshoppers, kill the small ones, spoil their eggs, cut the last (i.e. destroy them all) and bind their mouths from our livelihoods and sustenance. Surely, you are the hearer of prayer.) A man: Messenger of Allah! How can you pray for one of Allah's soldiers (the grasshopper) to be decimated (i.e. the extinction of its species)? he asked (the reason for this). Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is a creature that fish scatter in the sea.) (Râvî) Hashim said: (Râvî) Ziyâd said: A man who saw that the fish were scattering the locusts told me the situation. "
3343-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: We went on a pilgrimage or an umrah with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Then we came across a group of grasshoppers on the way. So we started hitting them with our whips and shoes. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Eat (while you are in ihram). Because the grasshopper is from the sea, (that is, it is not forbidden to anyone with ihram), he said. "
3344-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade killing migratory birds, frogs, ants and sergeants. "
3345-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade killing four animals: Ant, honey bee, sergeant bird and migratory bird. "
3346-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): His Prophet (PBUH) (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: An ant bit someone. Thereupon, that prophet ordered the ants' village (that is, their nests to be burned) and was burned. Then Allah (Azza wa Jalla) said to that Prophet: Because of the ant biting you, you destroyed an ummah (i.e. ant community) from the glories that glorified (Allah)? he sent down the (reprehensible) revelation.) " ...
3348-) - “... According to what is reported from Said bin Jubayr (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): A relative of bin Mugaffel (radiy-Allâhu anh) threw a flick stone with a sling (or threw the flick stone between his fingers). Abdullah bin Mugaffel also forbade the man (from this) and said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade throwing a stone with a sling (or throwing a flick stone between his fingers) and said: (Surely, this flick stone neither hunts prey nor injures and kills the enemy, and However, this stone breaks teeth and makes eyes.) When bin Mugaffel's relative did the stone throwing again after a while, Abdullah bin Mugaffel said (to him): man, I told you that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade it. Did you do this again? "I won't talk to you anymore," he said. "
3349-) - “... From Abdullah bin Mugaffel (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade throwing a stone with a sling (or with two fingers of the testimony, or with the thumb and the big finger) and said: This stone does not kill the prey, nor does it tear apart the enemy, but it slits the eye and breaks the tooth.)
3350-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Sharik (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered himself to kill the scallops. "
3351-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he kills a scallop in the first blow, there is such a reward for that person. Whoever kills a tawny in the second blow, there is this much (less than the first) answer. And whoever kills a squirrel in the third blow, there is this much reward (less than the reward he told in the second time)".
3352-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said that freckles were fâsık. "
3353-) - “... According to what is reported from Sâibe (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the freed concubine of Faqih bin al-Mughira, he once entered Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) and saw a spear placed on one side in her room. Then (to Hazrat Aisha): Mother of the believers! What are you doing with this spear? he asked. Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) also said: We are killing these calico lizards with it. Because when Ibrahim (the Prophet) was thrown into the fire, the Prophet of Allah (Hazrat-i Muhammad) (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) informed us that all the animals on earth, except for the speckled lice, extinguished that fire, but that the tweeds blew (fire) against Abraham. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered to kill the scat. "
3354-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Salebe al-Husheni (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade eating predatory animals with molar teeth. Zuhri said: I had not heard this hadith (from Hijaz scholars) until I entered Damascus. "
3355-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said that it is forbidden to eat the meat of all predatory animals with molars. "
3356-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade it on the day of the conquest of Khaybar, to eat all the prey animals with teeth and to eat all the birds with nails and claws. "
3357-) - “... from Huzeyme bin Cez' (radiyallahu anh); He said: I (once): Messenger of Allah! I came before you to ask the verdict of the black animals. What do you say about the fox? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Who eats? Me: Messenger of Allah! What do you say about the wolf? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Does a person who has good (taqwa) eat wolf (does it)?”. "
3358-) - “... From Abdurrahman bin Abi Ammar (radiyallahu anh); He said: He asked Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma) about the hyena's verdict: Is a hyena a prey? said. Jabir; yes, he said. Me: can i eat it? said. Jabir; yes, he replied. Me: Is this something you heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? I asked. Jabir; yes, he said. "From Huzeyme bin Cez' (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I (once) said: Rasûlallah! What do you say about the hyena? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Who eats the hyena?)
3360-) - “... From Sabit bin Yazid al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh); He said: We were (in a military unit) with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (on a journey). (During the journey) the people caught Dıbab (the lizards) and ate it with kebab. I also caught a Dabb and took it to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) after making a kebab. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) took a peeled palm branch and began to count the fingers of the bald with it. Then: a group of his sons was transformed into the image of four-legged animals walking on the ground. I really do not know, I hope they are lizards,) he said. I said: They kebab and ate them. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did not eat (from it) and did not forbid it either. "
3361-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did not make Dabb (headache) haram, but he was disgusted with it. Surely it is the food of all shepherds. Undoubtedly, Allah (Azza wa Jalla) makes some people benefit from it. If he was with me, I would eat it. ..... Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated the like of it from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) through Umar bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh). "
3363-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (once) when he returned from the prayer, a man from the people of Soffa called out to him: Rasûlullah! Our land is a land with plenty of Dabbs. What do you say about lizards (eating the meat of a cow)? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (I have learned that it is an anointed nation). Then he did not order and did not forbid eating the flesh of lizards. "
3364-) - “... From Khalid bin al-Walid (radiyallahu anh); He said: A kebab was brought to (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and placed near him. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) extended his hand to eat from it. One or more of those present) said: Messenger of Allah! “This is lizard meat,” he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) withdrew his hand from him. Then Khalid (bin al-Walid) said: Messenger of Allah! Is dabb (scar) haram? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): However, this animal did not exist in my country. I find myself disgusted with him.) The narrator said: Thereupon, Khalid bowed to Dabb and ate from it. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was also looking at him. "
3365-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I do not prohibit it. So Dabb (clap) i.)"
3366-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: While we were passing through Merr-i Zahrân (the district called) (on a journey), we scared away a rabbit. Although the passengers ran after him, they were tired and helpless. So I ran and finally caught up with the animal and caught it and brought it to Abu Talha. Abu Talha also slaughtered the rabbit and sent it (with me) to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) around its tail and the upper part of its neck. The Prophet accepted this gift. "
3367-) - “... According to what is reported from Muhammad bin Safwan (radiy-Allâhu anh), he passed by the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) once (after hunting and slaughtering him) with two rabbits he had hanged and said: Rasûlullah! I kept these two rabbits, but I could not find a knife (knife) to slaughter them. Therefore, I slaughtered the animals with a merve (that is, a piece of stone that is sharp, white and clear like a knife) Can I eat (their meat)? said. He : commanded. "
3368-) - “... from Huzeyme bin Cez' (radiyallahu anh); He said: (once): Messenger of Allah! I came to you to ask you about some ground animals. What would you say about the dabb (a kind of keller)? said. Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I do not eat it and I do not make it haram. Huzeyme said: I will eat what you have not made haram (something you have not made haram) why (do not eat)? I said, O Messenger of Allah. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): one of them is lost (translated as animal). And I saw a creature that made me doubt (that is, it is possible that the anointed ummah was transformed into lizards), he said. Me: Messenger of Allah! What do you say about the rabbit? said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: I do not eat it and I do not prohibit it from being eaten.) Me: I will definitely eat what you have not made haram, and why (don't you) eat (rabbit meat)? I said, O Messenger of Allah. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I have been informed that he is bleeding (that is, he has menstruation like a woman). "
3369-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It purifies water (that is, it removes ablution and uncleanness), its fruit (that is, the game that dies before being slaughtered) is halal.
3370-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Eat the prey that the water throws on the beach and leaves on the beach by retreating. Do not eat the (game) that dies in the sea and comes to the surface.)
3371-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) who eats the meat of the crow even though he called it a fasiq? By Allah, the crow is not one of the clean (food). "
3372-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (The snake is vicious, the scorpion is vicious, the mouse is vicious, and the crow is wicked.) (alaihi wa sallam) said (to the crow) who would eat it after he called it a fasiq.
3373-) - “... from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade eating the cat and forbidding its price (i.e. selling it and getting the price). "
3374-) - “... From Abdullah bin Salam (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to Medina (migrating from Mecca) to Medina, the people rushed to meet him and said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came. It was said that the Messenger of Allah came, the Messenger of Allah came. I went in public so I could have a look. When I finally saw and recognized His face, I knew that his face was not a liar. The first commandment I heard from him was: (O People! Increase and spread greetings, feed (to the needy), establish good relations with relatives, and pray at night while the people are sleeping, so that you can enter Paradise with greetings.) "
3375-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He used to say: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (Increase and spread the greeting, feed (to the needy) and be brothers as Allah (Azza wa Jalla) commanded you.)
3376-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), onesam asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) which trait of Islam is better? he asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: It is to make someone eat food and to greet those you know and those you do not know.) "
3380-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Eat to fill your seven intestines. A believer is also a place to put in his stomach.)
3381-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "It is a place to put in one's stomach. The disbeliever also eats to fill his seven intestines.)
3382-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) never condemned or ate any food. If he liked a meal he would eat it, if he didn't he would leave it - he wouldn't eat it. "... Abu Bakr bin Abi Shayba narrated a similar hadith from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) through ..... Abu Yahya, from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)." Bakr bin Abi Shayba said: We oppose it in the deed. Because they, the narrators in the first year, narrate this from Abu Hazim. (That is, we narrate this from Abu Yahya.)
3386-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Juhayfa (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I do not eat by being pious (i.e. cross-legged and settled down)”
3387-) - “... From Abdullah bin Büsr (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: (once) I offered a sheep (to slaughter and eat) to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) sat on his knees and ate. A Bedouin: What kind of sitting is this? said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said; He made me a humble servant and did not make me an arrogant and arrogant person.)
3388-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was eating (once) with six of his Companions. Meanwhile, a Bedouin came and ate (and finished) that meal with two bites. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If that bedouin had said Bismillah, the food would have been enough for you. Therefore, when one of you eats a meal (beginning), he should say Bismillah. If he forgets to say Bismillah at the beginning of the meal, (when he remembers it during the meal) he should say "Bismillah fi awwish wa ahihi"). "
3389-) - “... From Omar bin Abi Salama (radiyallahu anhuma): He said: (One day) as we were starting to eat, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to me: Mention the name of (Azze and Jalla). "
3390-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Let a believer eat with his right hand, drink with his right hand, take with his right hand and give with his right hand." Indeed, the devil eats with his left hand, drinks with his left hand, gives with his left hand and takes with his left.)
3391-) - “... From Omar bin Abi Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: I was a boy under the protection and upbringing of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). (When I ate) my hand would run all over the lunch box. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to me: Son! He said, "Before you start the meal, mention the name of Allah, eat with your right hand (say Bismillah) and eat from the side closest to you." "
3392-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do not eat with your hands. Because the devil eats with his left hand.)
3393-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu amhümâ); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When he eats a meal, he should not rub his hand on a cloth unless he licks or licks his fingers. I witnessed that he asked the question and received the following answer: Omar (radiyallahu anh): Can you let me know from whom you narrated the hadith: "Umar (radiyallahu anh): When someone eats, he should not rub his hand on a cloth unless he licks his fingers or gets them licked." Amr (radiyallahu anh): From Ibn Abbas. Umar (radiyallahu anh): No doubt, this hadith was narrated to us from Jabir. Amr (radiyallahu anh). - Before Jabir came to us, we learned this hadith from Ibn Abbas through Ata. Ancestor. however, he interviewed Jabir (meet him) during the year he stayed in Mecca. "
3395-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "One of you (after a meal) should not touch a piece of cloth until he licks his fingers. Because he does not know where the blessing is in his food.)
3396-) - “... from Umm Âsim (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: While we were eating in a bowl, Nubeysh (radiy-Allâhu anh), the maula of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), came to us and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He eats in a bowl and then eats that bowl. If he licks it, the bowl asks for forgiveness for that person (that is, he asks for his sins to be forgiven)) "
3397-) - “... Al-Mualla bin Rashid Abu'l-Yemân's grandmother (Ummu Asim) (radiyallahu anhum) told a man called Nübeyşetü'l-Hayr from the Huzayl tribe: (radiyallahu anh) came to us and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If he eats food in a bowl and then licks that bowl, the bowl will ask forgiveness for that person."
3398-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When it is placed, the person should eat it from the person closest to him and not take it from his friend sitting at the table.” - ... From Iqrash bin Zueyb (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: times ) A large bowl containing a large amount of fatty tirit was brought to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and we started to eat from it (turning towards the bowl). wa sallam) said: Iqrash, eat from one place (from the side closest to you, because this is a single (type) meal.) Then a plate containing various types of fresh dates was brought to us. This time the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wa sallam)'s hand wandered around the plate (that is, he took dates from various parts of the plate) and said: Iqrâş, eat from any side you want. Because this is not a type (food).
3400-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Busr (radiy-Allâhu anh): A large bowl (tirit) was brought to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) once. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to those sitting at the table): Eat from the sides (that is, let everyone eat from the place closest to him) and leave the top of the bowl (that is, the middle and the top) so that it will be blessed. "
3401-) - “... From Vasile bin al-Eska' al-Leysi (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) put his blessed hand on the tirit and said: 'Eat from the sides of the tirit by mentioning its name (that is, let everyone eat from the place closest to him) and leave the upper part of the tirit. Because blessings come over him.)
3402-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When it is put on the table, eat from the side of it (that is, let everyone eat from the place closest to him) and leave the middle. Because abundance descends in the middle of it.)
3403-) - “... According to what is reported from Ma'kil bin Yasar (radiyallahu anh), one bite fell on the ground while he was eating lunch (in a village where he was a guest). He himself took the bite from the ground and ate it after cleaning it. Thereupon, the notables of the village, who were there, pointed to each other and found this move of him strange. Then he said to himself: (You) may the Emir succeed in useful works. It was said that the notables of the village found it strange to take the food that had fallen when there was so much food in front of you. Ma'kil bin Yasar replied: I was not going to leave something I heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) for these novices. We used to order one of us, when a morsel of food fell to the ground, to take it from the ground and eat it after cleaning it, and not to leave it to the devil. "
3404-) - "... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "While you are eating, when a bite falls from the hand of one of you, you remove the thing (such as dust, soil) on the bite." Let him eat the bite.)"
3405-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Many people have matured (in virtue). None of the women attained perfection (in virtue) other than Imran's daughter Meryem and Fir'avn's wife Asiye. Aisha's superiority over other women is undoubtedly like the superiority of tirid over other dishes.)
3406-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: His superiority over other women is like the superiority of tirid over other foods.)
3407-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: In the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) we rarely found food (prepared in the fire), and when we found it, we had no handkerchiefs (to be wiped off) other than our hands, arms and feet. And we used to pray without making wudu (again) after (eating the food prepared in the fire) Abdillah (Ibn-i Majeh) said: This hadith is garib, it was only reported from Muhammad bin Salama. "
3408-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiy-Allâhu anh): When (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ate a meal; . . . . . He used to say (Praise be to Allah, who fed us, made us drink and made us Muslims). "
3409-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to say when his food was taken away or the (food) in front of him was taken away: it was always needed, constantly, not rejected. Praise be to Allah, who is fertile and without hypocrisy. O our Lord.)
3410-) - “... According to what is reported from Muâz bin Enes al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: After eating a meal (meal); If he says, "It is Allah's, who gave me this food and fed me without any movement or power from me," his past (minor) sin will be forgiven.)
3411-) - “... According to what is reported from Wild bin Harb (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Companions said: Rasûlullah! They said, 'We are eating, but we are not satisfied. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to them: Do you eat separately?). The Companions replied: Yes. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Then gather around your meal (that is, eat together) and mention Allah's name (beginning) with your meal, so that the meal will be fruitful for you." "
3412-) - “... According to what is reported from Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Eat together and not separately. For, no doubt, abundance is with the community.)
3413-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would neither blow on food nor drink. And it would not be breathed into the container. "
3414-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When his servant brings his food, let him sit down and eat with him. If the servant refuses (without sitting down and eating with him) (or if he refuses to sit down and eat with his servant), that person should give his servant (some) from the food.)
3415-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When someone's slave offers a meal to his master, for which he is taking pains and heat, the master should invite that slave (to the dinner table) and eat it with him. If the master does not do (this), let him take a bite and give it to his slave.)
3416-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When his servant brings his food, the master should sit his servant with him (to dinner) or give him the food. Because it is the servant who carries the heat and smoke of the food (fire).
3417-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not eat on the table or on a small plate. (Râvi) Qatada, (to Anas): What were they eating on? he asked. Enes replied: On the floor tables. " From Anas (radiyallahu anh) he said: I did not see the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) eating on the table until he passed away.'
3419-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade getting up (from the table) until the meal (from the table). "
3420-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "When the table is set, no man gets up (from the table) until the table is cleared, and even if the person is full, he does not lift his hand from the food until he has finished eating. Let him continue to eat (until his friends are full). Because the man (by withdrawing his hand from the food) embarrasses his friend sitting next to him, and his friend perhaps holds his hand even though he needs to eat (that is, he hesitates to eat) "
3421-) - “... According to what is reported from Fatima (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the daughter of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A person who spends the night (i.e., goes to bed) without washing his hands well (if something happens to him) should not blame anyone other than his own self (that is, he should not accuse) "According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: He said: "When someone has the smell of meat on his hands and sleeps without washing his hands (well), then he should not blame anyone other than himself (that is, he should not blame)".
3423-) - “... From Esma bint-i Yazid (bin es-Sekan bin Rafi) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: A meal was brought to (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Then it was presented to us. We said: We have no appetite for food. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: And do not collect lying.) " ". . . According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), (a man from the sons of Abdu'l-Ashhel), he said: I arrived at the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (in Madinah). He was eating his lunch. He said (to me): get close and (eat)). I said: I am fasting. But I am sorry, I regret that I did not eat the food of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). "
3425-) - “... From Abdullah bin al-Haris bin Cez' ez-Zübeydî (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was alive, we used to eat bread and meat in the mosque. "
3426-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: In the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), we used to eat while walking and drink (water and the like) standing up. "
3427-) - “... from Enes (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) loved zucchini. "
3428-) - “... from Enes (radiyallahu anh); He said: Sulaym (radiyallahu anha) sent a basket containing fresh dates to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) with me. Then I could not find the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) (in the House of Saadet). He had just gone to the house of a friend (or freed slave) who invited him and cooked a meal for him. So I went to Him. (When I arrived) He was eating. Enes said: He invited me (to the table) to eat with him. Enes said: The owner of the house made a tirid with meat and zucchini. Anas said: I saw that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) likes zucchini. Enes said: I started to collect the pieces of pumpkin (in the tirid) and bring them closer to Him. When we ate the food, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) returned to his house and I placed the date basket in front of him. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) also began to eat and divide the dates, and finally he finished the date in the basket. "
3429-) - “... from Jabir (bin Tarik) (radiyallahu anh); He said: I entered the house of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). He had this pumpkin with him. Me: What is this? I asked. He = (This is zucchini. We increase our food with it). "
3430-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu'd-Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He said: "The best food of the people of Paradise and the people of Paradise is meat."
3431-) - “... from Abu'd-Darda (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) always responded to the meat meal he was invited to. He always accepted the meat given to him. "
3432-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: One day, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was offered meat (meal) and the arm of the meat was presented to him and he was asked to eat it. He loved the sleeve of meat. Thereupon, he bit the meat from the arm (which he held in his hand) and ate it. "
3433-) - “... Abdullah bin Ja'far (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) was serving a camel that he had slaughtered for Ibn Zubayr and a congregation, as he narrated to Ibn Zubayr: While offering meat to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), he heard the following command from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): The best (animal) is milk meat. ) "
3434-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I do not know that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a lamb that was kebabed until he met Allah (Azza wa Jalla).
3435-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): The leftover kebab was never removed from the front of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and a feathered mat was not loaded with it. "
3436-) - “... Abdullah bin al-Harith bin al-Cez' ez-Zübeydî (radiy-Allâhu anh) ; He said: One day, we ate a piece of kebab meat in the mosque with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Then we wiped our hands with pebbles and got up and prayed without making ablution (i.e., refreshing). "
3437-) - “... from Abu Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); He said: (once a day) a man came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and talked to him. During the conversation (from fear), her ferisalan (between her shoulders and her sides) started to tremble. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to the man: make it easy for yourself (So don't be afraid, be calm). For I am certainly not a king. Surely, I am the son of a woman who ate meat that was salted and dried in the sun.) Abdillah (Ibn-i Majeh) said: Only Ismail conveyed this hadith to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). (In other words, others have narrated it from Qays as mursal). "
3438-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: We used to lift the feet of cattle and cattle (that is, the part between the kneecap and the heel). Fifteen days after the sacrifices were slaughtered on the days of Eid-al-Adha, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would eat these feet. "
3439-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Two dead animals and two blood are made lawful for (believers). The two dead animals (made lawful for you) are fish and grasshoppers. The two bloods (lawful for you) are the liver and the spleen.)
3440-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (The head of your cobble is salt.) "
3441-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (What a wonderful additive for vinegar.)
3442-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Vinegar is a good additive."
3443-) - “... from Umm Sa'd (radiyallahu anha); He said: Once, when I was with Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered her and asked: Is there anything for her to eat? Aisha said: We have bread, dried dates and vinegar with us. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: What a wonderful additive. my god! Bless the vinegar. Because vinegar was the condiment of the prophets before me. A house with vinegar in it does not become poor.) "
3444-) - “... According to what is reported from Omar (bin el-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Add its oil to the bread and use this oil. Because this oil is taken from a blessed tree.)"
3445-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Eat its oil (with bread) and use it. Because this oil is blessed.)
3446-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); When milk was offered to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he would say: It is one blessing or (on the contrary) two blessings. "
3447-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When he gives a meal to someone, he should pray (when he starts eating): Make this meal blessed for us and provide us with a better sustenance than it. And when Allah gives a person some milk to drink, he should pray: Make this milk fruitful for us and give us more milk. Because I know nothing (of foodstuffs) other than milk, which replaces food and drink (that is, quenches hunger and thirst).
3448-) - “... From Aisha (radiyallahu anha): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) loved sweets and honey. "
3449-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: In order to prepare me for the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), he was trying to make me fat by using sümne (which is used to make women fat) (to feed the wild shank). But this wish did not come true. Finally, I ate wet dates and cucumber (together), and my body developed well. "
3450-) - “... from Abdullah bin Ja'far (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) eating fresh dates and cucumbers (together). "
3451-) - “... From Sahl bin Sa'd (es-Saidi) (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to eat fresh dates and melons (together). "
3452-) - "... According to what was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A household without dried dates is hungry.”
3453-) - “... According to what is reported from Salma (radiy-Allâhu anhum), the grandmother of Ubeydullah bin (Ali bin) Ebî Rafi (and wife of Abu Rafi); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: A house without dried dates is like a house without food.
3454-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): When the first one was brought, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: We (believers) to our Medina, our fruits, our mudd and our saas ( that is, give our scales) many times of abundance, ) he used to pray. Then he would give the fruit to the youngest of the children there. (That is, from the fruit brought, he would first give it to the children.)
3455-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Eat the dates together with the dried burrito. Eat the old dates together with the new dates. Because the devil is angry (for you to do so) and; The son of Adam remained (that is, continued his lineage) and finally ate the old with the new. says. ) "
3456-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: We did not ask permission from his friends (we did not get permission), but the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade him to combine two dates and eat them. According to what is reported from Abu Bakr's freed slave Sa'd (radiyallahu anhuma) (Sa'd was serving the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) liked his service): wa sallam) forbade ikran, that is, the date (you eat) (combining the two).
3458-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) when stale dates were brought to him and he started to check (whether there was a wolf in it). "
3459-) - “... From the two sons of Sülemli Büsr (Abdullah and Atiyye) (radiy-Allâhu anhum); This is what they said. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to us (once) We laid a fringe mat under him beautifully. He also sat on it. Then Allah (Azza wa Jalla) revealed to him in our house, and we offered him butter and dried dates. He loved butter (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam).
3460-) - “... from Abu Hazim (radiyallahu anh); He said to Sahl bin Sa'd (radiyallahu anh): Have you seen pure white bread made from sifted flour? I asked. Sahl replied: I did not see bee or white bread made of sifted flour until he passed away. Me: Did the Companions have flour sieves when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was alive? I asked. Sahl said: I did not see any flour sieve until he passed away. Me: then how did you eat barley flour unsifted? I asked. Sahl : We used to blow the flour (to remove the bark) (milled barley). Thus, the part flying out of the flour (shell) would fly away. He said, "We used to soften the remaining (shells) with water and knead them."
3461-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Ayman (Barake) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): once she sifted some flour and wanted to make bread for the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked: What is it?). Umm Ayman too: it is a food we make in our country. “I wanted to make a loaf of bread for you from it,” he said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) also said: Return (that is, the crusty part that you separated with a sieve) to this (that is, the flour you have sifted) (that is, mix it, then knead it). "
3462-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: "Until he met Allah, the bee made of sifted flour did not see a white bread with one of its eyes."
3463-) - “... From Ata (bin Ebî Muslim al-Hurasânî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: Hüreyre (radiy-Allâhu anh) (at one time) visited his tribe, that is, a village (the narrator said: I think he said Yünâ village). The people of the village brought one of the pastries' pastries to Abu Huraira. Thereupon, Abu Huraira wept and said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) never saw this (kind of) bread with his own eyes. "
3464-) - “... from Qatade (radiyallahu anh); He said: We used to go to Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh). (Ishaq, in his own narration, said: "And Enes's bread maker was standing — serving —". Dârimi also said in his own narration: "And Enes' dinner table was set (or his meal)." Enes one day (to us). ) said: eat) Eat. He said, 'I do not know that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw neither a loaf of dough nor a lamb that was kebabed until he met Allah. "
3465-) - “... From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The first time we heard about (that is, honey halva) was as follows: Jibril (Aleyhis Salam) came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Lands will be conquered for his ummah and worldly wealth (i.e. abundance) will be poured over them so much that they will surely eat faluzec. . Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): What is it?) asked. Jibril (Aleyhisselâm) said: They mix oil and honey together (they make halva). For this reason, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) sobbed and cried. "
3466-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said one day: If we had a greasy white bread made of brown wheat with us, we would have eaten it. A man from the Ansar heard this order and made the mentioned bread and brought it to him. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) asked: What kind of container was this oil you mixed with? The man said: He was in a tunic made of the skin of a lizard. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) refused to eat it (that is, he did not eat it). " ". . . From Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: Umm Sulaym (bint-i Milhan) - one day - made a loaf of bread for the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and put some butter on the bread. Then he said (to me): Go to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and invite him. Enes said: I came to him and said: My mother is calling you. Anas said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood up and said to the Companions who were with him: “Get up.” Anas said: I went to my mother before them and informed her (that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and those with him were coming). After a while, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came (to my mother’s house). (The Companions also waited outside the house). The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to my mother): Bring (the food). My mother said: I made the meal (that is, a little) only for you. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Bring it to my mother. (My mother brought the bread she made). Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Anas! You (companions) include me in groups of ten (in order) (that is, take them home)). So I started to take (companions) to Him in ten persons. They all ate well. The Companions were eighty people. "
3468-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: I swear by (Allah) in whose hand (the power) is, that the Prophet of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not eat his wheat bread until he was satisfied three days in a row until Allah (Azza wa Jalla) passed away. "
3469-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: From the time the people of the household of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) came to Medina, they did not fill their stomachs with wheat bread for three consecutive nights until the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) passed away. "
3470-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) died, there was nothing for a living creature with liver to eat, apart from a piece of barley on a shelf belonging to me in my house. I ate from it for a while (with the blessing of Allah). Then I measured my barley. It's over on that. "
3471-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: "Until he passed away, the people of his household did not eat barley bread until they were satisfied. "
3472-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and his family members spent several nights in a row hungry, unable to find dinner. The bread they usually ate was barley bread.
3473-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wore woolen clothes and patched shoes. Anas also said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ate five and wore hard clothes. narrator) to al-Hasan: What is the 'five'? it was asked. It (Five') is the coarse (ground) barley. He could only swallow it with a sip of water," he said.
3474-) - “... From Mıkdâm bin Madîkerib (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I heard Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: "The son of Adam did not fill a vessel worse than the stomach (i.e. stomach). A few bites are enough for the son of Adam to straighten his back. If Adam's soul overtakes his son, , one third of the stomach (i.e. stomach) is for food, one third is for drink, and one third is for breathing.)
3475-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): Once a man burps in the presence of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (due to his satiety). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to the man): Get away from us. Indeed, on the Day of Judgment, you will be the one who is the most hungry in the worldly life.) "
3476-) - “... From Atîyye bin Amir al-Cuhenî (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I heard this from (radiy-Allâhu anh) when he was insisting that he eat a little more than he ate: quantity is enough for me. Because I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "The person who eats the most of the aprils will have the longest hunger on the Day of Judgment."
3477-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Eating everything that you are hungry for is wasted. ) "
3478-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) entered the house and saw a piece of bread thrown on the ground. After picking it up from the ground, it ate it and said: Aisha, show respect to the precious thing. Because whatever tribe the piece of bread hated (escaped) it never returned to them again.) "
3479-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed as follows: I seek refuge in you from hunger. Because hunger really is such a bad bedmate. I seek refuge in you from treason. Because of course, betrayal is a very bad inner feeling.)
3480-) ... According to what is narrated from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Do not leave your dinner even with a handful of dried dates. Because quitting it makes (man) old (i.e. weakens).)
3481-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "The guest reaches the house faster than the knife reaches the hump of a camel."
3482-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "He reaches the house where food is eaten faster than a knife reaches the hump of a camel.)"
3483-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "It is certainly a sunnah to go up to the door of the house with his guest (i.e. send him off)."
3484-) - “... From Âli (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (One day) I cooked a meal and invited the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) came. But when he saw pictures in the house, he went back. "
3485-) - “... According to what is reported from Safina Abu Abdirrahman (radiyallahu anh): The man cooked a meal and sent it to Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh)'s house. ve sallam) and said he would eat with us, and thereupon, they invited the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of God also came and placed his hand on the trees on both sides of the door. Then (as he was about to enter) he saw a patterned cloth on one side of the room and went back. Thereupon, Fatima said to Ali: What has turned you back? “Ask me, O Messenger of Allah,” he said. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: It is not for me to enter a house (that is, decorated with embroidery) (i.e. I cannot enter). "
3486-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Umar (Abdullah) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): While he was on his table (eating) on the day, (his father) Umar (bin al-Khattab) (radiy-Allâhu anh) entered next to him. . Abdullah makes room for Ömer (his father) at the head of the table. Omar says: Bismillah, hits his hand and takes a bite. Then it doubles with another bite, (ie, it takes a second bite). Then Omar (radiyallahu anh): I seriously find the taste of oil. When he said that this is not meat fat (taste), Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) said: Emir (caliph) of the believers, I went to the market to look for fat so that I could buy it. But when I found it expensive, I bought a dirham of lean meat and put a dirham of oil on it. So I wanted my family members to benefit from the bones, he says. Thereupon, Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) says: Whenever meat and fat come together next to him (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he always ate one of them and gave the other as charity (it never happened that he ate both). Abdullah (radiyallahu anh): Take the amir of the believers (this time). From now on, when meat and fat come together with me, I will definitely do this (i.e. I will eat one and give the other as charity), he says. But Omar (radiyallahu anh): I'm not going to do it (So I won't eat this food), he says. "
3487-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: When you make soup, increase the water and give a handful of your soup to your neighbors. "
3488-) - “... From Ma'dân bin Ebî Talha el-Ya'merî (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: bin al-Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh) stood up to deliver the sermon on Friday. After praising and praising Allah, he said: O people! You are really eating those two greens (called garlic and onion) that I consider only malignant (i.e., undesirable). However, when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was alive (in the mosque), I used to see a man with the aforementioned smell of greenery coming from him. He was taken away from his hand (by being taken away from such a mosque) until he was taken to the side of Baki. In that case, whoever eats them without hesitation must be cooked to remove their odor. "
3489-) - “... From Umm Ayyub (radiyallahu anha) (wife of Abu Ayyub-i Ansari); He said: I cooked a meal for the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) that contained some greens (like onions, garlic, leeks). But he did not eat (from this) and said: I do not like to torture my friend (Gabriel Aleyhis Salam). ) commanded. "
3490-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): A few men came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) smelled the smell of leeks from them and said: Didn't I ban you (Muslims) from this (bad smelling) greenery? Undoubtedly, angels are also disturbed by the things that make people uncomfortable. ) "
3491-) - “... According to what is reported from Ukba bin Amir al-Juheni (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) commanded his Companions: (Do not eat onions), then a secret (i.e. low-voiced) word (raw) ) commanded. "
3492-) - “... From Salman-i Farisi (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked about plain oil, cheese, and firâ (that is, a dress made of a wild donkey or leather). Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): What Allah declares to be halal (openly or implicitly) in His Book, and haram is what Allah has declared to be haram (explicitly or implicitly) in His Book. What the Book (or Allah) does not mention (that is, does not specify whether it is halal or haram) is also something that Allah has revealed (i.e. made permissible). )
3493-) - “... from Numan bin Bashir (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was given a gift of (fresh) grapes from Taif. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) called me and said: Take my bunch and deliver it to your mother. I ate the grape before I delivered it to my mother. A few nights later, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked me: What happened to my bunch, did you get it to your mother? I said: (it didn't reach my mother). Numan said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to me güder (disloyal). "
3494-) - “... from Talha (radiyallahu anh); He said: One day I went to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). He had a quince in his hand. He said: take (eat), O Talha. Because quince, no doubt, relaxes the heart.)
3495-) - “... According to what is reported from Sâlim's father (Abdullah bin Ömer) (radiy-Allâhu anhum): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prohibited the man from eating while lying down. "
3496-) - “... from Abu'd-Darda (radiyallahu anh); He said: My friend (Hazrat-i Muhammad) (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) advised: do not drink. Because alcohol is the key to every evil. ) " According to what is reported from Habbab bin al-Eret (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Beware, because the sin of wine rises above other sins just as the tree of wine (i.e. grapes and date palms) rises above other trees. . )
3499-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he drinks alcohol in this world (and dies without repentance), he will not drink alcohol in the hereafter.)
3500-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person who continues to drink is like a person who worships an idol. )
3501-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu'd-Darda (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A person who continues to drink will not enter Paradise. )
3502-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he drinks alcohol and gets drunk, it will not be accepted until after forty mornings." And if he dies (without repentance by the way), he enters the fire. If he repents (that is, if he quits drinking alcohol completely and turns to Allah, regretting his sin), Allah will accept his repentance. If that person breaks his repentance, drinks alcohol and gets drunk, none of his prayers are accepted and if he dies, he will enter the fire. If he repents, Allah will accept his repentance. If a man breaks his repentance and gets drunk (again), none of his prayers will be accepted for forty mornings. If he dies, he enters the fire. If he repents, Allah will (again) accept his repentance. If he (for the fourth time) turns back and drinks alcohol, it is a right upon Allah to make him drink from bedghat al-habal on the Day of Judgment. ) Companions: Messenger of Allah! What is Bedghatul-Habal? they asked. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is the thing (like pus) flowing from the body (due to burning) of the people (in other words, Hell). "
3503-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is (mostly) made from two trees: the date palm tree and the grape vine, ) "... According to what is reported from Numan bin Bashir (radiyallahu anh); ) said, he said: the drink is made of wheat, the drink is made of barley. The drink is made of raisins, the drink is made of dried dates, and the drink is made of honey.)
3505-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: He has been cursed in ten ways: The drinker himself, the person who produces it, the person who wants to produce it, the seller, the customer, the carrier, the one who has it transported (that is, the one who orders it), the one who buys it, the one who drinks it and the one who drinks it.
3506-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) cursed ten people with regard to alcohol: those who manufacture, those who want to produce, those who are produced for themselves, those who carry them, those who are transported for themselves, those who sell, who buy, who offer, who are offered to them. Finally, he counted ten people of this kind. "
3508-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anhu): The news that (radiyallahu anh) was selling a small amount of alcohol reached Umar (bin al-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh). Thereupon, Omar (radiyallahu anh) said: Good luck to Samura. Didn't Samura know that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: curse the Jews. It was forbidden for them to eat their (large and small cattle) fat, so they melted it and sold it.)
3509-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Nights and days will not go away (that is, the world will not come to an end) until a group of my Ummah calls a drink other than its name and drinks it in it." )
3510-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubade bin es-Samit (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A group of my Ummah will drink alcohol by calling it a different name.)"
3511-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Every drink that gives, is haram. ) "
3512-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Everything that gives is haram. ) "
3513-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Everything that gives is haram. ) "
3514-) - “... from Muawiya (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: Everything that gives is forbidden to every believer. ) "
3515-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Everything that gives is hamr (i.e. it is a drink that is forbidden by religion) and all kinds of hamr are haram. )
3516-) ... According to what is narrated from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (Everything that causes intoxication is haram.)
3517-) - “... According to what Abdullah bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) has narrated, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Everything that gives is haram, and a little of what intoxicates is also haram. )
3518-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A little of anything that intoxicates is also haram. )
3519-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A little of something that intoxicates is also haram. )
3520-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade making must by diluting dried dates and raisins, and prohibited making must by diluting date groves and fresh dates. . ... Al-Leys bin Sa'd also narrated the same hadith of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) from Jabir bin Abdillah through Ata bin Abi Rabâh. "
3522-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do not make must by diluting it by mixing it with the date grove. Just dilute each of these and make a must.)
3523-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Qatada (Harith) (radiyallahu anh), he heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam): Do not combine raisins and dried dates with a date grove. Do not combine them together. (That is, do not make must by diluting them together.) Only dilute each of these and make must. )
3524-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: We used to make nabîz (i.e. syrup) in a bag for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): We would take a handful of dried dates or a handful of raisins and throw them into a bag. Then we poured water on it. So we would prepare must in the morning, he would drink it in the evening, and we would prepare must in the evening, and he would drink this in the morning. Muawiyah said in his own narration: "We used to prepare (Shira) during the day and drink it at night or we would prepare it at night, and he would drink it during the day." "
3525-) - “... From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: For (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) syrup was made. He drank the juice the day it was made, the next day, and the third day. Then, if anything remained of the must, it would be poured or poured at His command. "
3526-) - “... from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: For (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) mustard was made in a stone (manufactured) vessel (called teve). "
3527-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade making wine in naqîr, musiffet, dubbâ and hanteme (pots) and said: “Everything that intoxicates is haram.” "
3528-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade the making of must in mumuseffet and kar' (pots called). "
3529-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade drinking (shira and other soft drinks) kept in hantem, dubbâ and naqîr (cups). "
3530-) - “... from Abdurrahman bin Ya'mer (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade dubbâ and hantem (pots called). "
3531-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Burayda's father (Burayda al-Aslemi) (radiyallahu anhuma), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: I had. After that, make must (that is, you can) in such vessels and avoid anything intoxicating. )
3532-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: You should know that no container forbids anything. Anything intoxicating is haram. )
3533-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: Rumeyse!) Are any of you women incapable of making a jumpsuit from the skin of their victim, whom they cut every year on Eid-al-Adha? He continued his words as follows: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade making mustards (i.e. jars and jugs made of clay) in such and such containers. However, he did not forbid the establishment of vinegar in such vessels. "
3534-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade the establishment of must in cherries (i.e. jars and jugs made of clay). "
3535-) - “... Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: A jar (i.e. earthen jar - jug) must was brought to (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The cider was rising and boiling. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said (to me): Pour it into the garden. Because this is the drink of one who does not believe in Allah and the Last Day.) "
3536-) - “... According to what is narrated from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Cover, tie your overalls, turn off the lamp and close the door. Because the devil cannot untie any bag (which is closed with basmala), cannot open any door (closed with basmala), and cannot remove the cover of any vessel (covered with basmala). If one of you cannot find anything to cover it except by placing a piece of wood across his bowl, let him cover his bowl by putting that piece of wood across, mentioning the name of Allah. (This is also because turning off the lamp:) Because the mouse can burn their houses on the head of the household. ) "
3537-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered us to cover the container, to tie the mouth of the overalls and to turn the (empty) container upside down so that its mouth is on the ground. "
3538-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: I used to prepare three covered containers for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the evening: one for wudu water, one for miswak, and one for drinking. "
3539-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever drinks (something) from the vessel will certainly send the fire of Hell to his stomach, sipping it with gruel. )
3540-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe (bin el-Yeman) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade drinking (something) from gold and silver vessels, and said: in the hereafter, they belong to us Muslims. )
3541-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he drinks (something) from a silver cup, it is as if he is sending the fire of Hell to his stomach by sipping it in a pound. )
3542-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas (bin Malik) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (while drinking something) he would breathe three times (that is, he would breathe out of the bowl by taking the bowl away from his mouth) and: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: ) (while drinking something) he would breathe three times. "
3543-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) drank (something) and took two breaths while drinking. "
3545-) - “... From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade drinking (something) from his mouth by twisting the mouths of the overalls. After the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade it, a man got up at night, rolled up the mouth of a bag and drank from it, and a snake came out of the overalls on the man. "
3546-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade drinking (something) from the mouth of the overalls (and vessels such as jugs). "
3547-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade drinking (something) from the mouth of the overalls (and vessels such as jugs). "
3548-) - “... From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: I offered Zamzam to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He drank standing up. He said: Then I told this to Ikrima. Ikrima swore in the name of Allah that he did not do that (that is, that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not drink Zamzam while standing). "
3549-) - “... According to what is reported from Kebsha al-Ansariyya (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went to his house. At that time, there was a water bag hanging next to Kebşe. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) drank water from the overalls while standing. The kebshe cut off the brim of the overalls touched by the blessed mouth of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and kept it as a memory of abundance (and prosperity). " '..... As narrated from Anas (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade drinking (water and the like) while standing."
3551-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): On that day, a quantity of milk mixed with water was brought to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). There was a Bedouin on his right and Abu Bakr on his left. After he drank, he gave (the leftover) to the Bedouin and said: It is given, it is given to the right in order.)
3552-) - “... From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was offered some milk. On his right was Ibn Abbas, and on his left was Khalid bin al-Walid. He (after drinking milk) said to Ibn Abbas: (First, will you allow me to let Khalid drink?). Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I do not wish that I prefer anyone over my own self regarding the surplus of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, Ibn Abbas took the milk jug and drank it. (After) Khalid also drank. "
3554-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade breathing (while drinking something) inside the bowl (that is, without removing the bowl from the mouth). "
3555-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade blowing into a bowl. "
3556-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would not blow a drink. "
3557-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade us from lying face down to drink water with our lips (without a glass or palm) and forbade us to grasp and drink water with the palm of one hand, and said, “One of you should not drink water with his lips (without a skin or without a palm) as a dog drinks water, and Let him not drink with the palm of one hand, as the people who are angry with Allah drink. And he should not drink from it at night unless he moves the container and checks it. As long as the top and mouth of the container are well covered. Whoever drinks from a cup with the intention of humility (that is, humility of the heart) drinks water with his palms, Allah will write for him as many rewards as his fingers. The palm is the vessel of Jesus, son of Mary. Because Jesus, throwing the glass, said, "Ugh, this is with the world, (Or it is with the world," he said). ) "
3558-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: While a man (Abu'l-Haytham) was turning the water from one side to the other in his garden, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) (with Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh)) entered the man's garden and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) entered the man's garden. He said to the man: If there is water with you that has spent the night in an old bag (ie, it has cooled down), it will make us drink it, otherwise we will drink this water with our lips (without a glass and without grabbing it). The owner of the garden said: There is water in an old bag, and he walked towards the gazebo. We went with him. The owner of the orchard spent the night in an old baguette and poured some water (water into a glass) and milked a sheep for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) drank (this) too. Then the owner of the orchard did the same for his friend (Abu Bakr) who was with him. "
3559-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said (during a journey) that we stopped by a pool and started drinking water from it (without a crust and without a palm) with our lips. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: And do not drink with your lips without grasping. But wash your hands (throughly). Then drink from your palms. Because there is no better container than the hand). "
3560-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The person who offers water and similar soft drinks is the last of them in terms of drinking. )
3561-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had a glass cup and was drinking in it. "
3562-) - “... from Usama bin Sharik (radiyallahu anh); He said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Is there any sin for us in doing this? Is there a sin on us in something like that? I have witnessed them ask questions. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to them: Servants of Allah, Allah has removed sin (from those who do what you ask) (that is, it is not considered as a sin). However, a person who insults his (religious) brother's chastity (that is, his honor and dignity) is excluded from this provision. This is what is haram). Bedouins (this time): Messenger of Allah! Is it a sin for us not to be treated? they asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Be, O servants of Allah. For, in truth, Allah has created a cure (medicine) for every disease He has created apart from old age.) Men: Messenger of Allah! What is the best of (characteristics) given to the servant? they said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Good character). "
3563-) - “... From Abu Hizam (es-Sa'di) (radiyallahu anh); He said: What would you say to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (by a man): about the medicines we use for medicine, the prayers recited with the desire for healing, and the protective things we use (such as shields) to protect (from the enemies). Do they reverse anything from Allah's destiny? he was asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (also) is from Allah's destiny (sentence). "
3564-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He also gave a medicine for every disease he gave. ) "
3565-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He also gave a medicine for every disease he gave. ) "
3566-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): One day, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) visited a sick man and asked him: Is there an appetite? The man said: I would very much desire a wheat bread. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he has a piece of wheat bread (religion) send it to his brother). Subsequently, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “When the patient desires to eat something, let him eat it.” "
3567-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went to visit a patient. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (to the patient): Is there any appetite for something? “Would you like to eat a donut?” he asked. The patient said. Then they asked for a donut for the patient. "
3568-) - “... From Umm al-Munzir bint-i Kays al-Ansariyya (radiyallahu anha); He said: (one day) Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh) was with him, but we (im) entered our house. Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) had just recovered from an illness. He had hung ripe dates (on one side of the house so that he could ripen) We had bunches. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was eating from it. Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) took it (from it) to eat. 'l-Munzir said: Then I cooked a meal of turnip leaves and barley for the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). he commanded."
3569-) - “... from Suhayb (bin Sinan-i Rûmî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (One day) I came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). In front of him was bread and dates. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (to me); and eat) he commanded. I also started to eat dates. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to me): You eat dates even though you have an eye disease). Suhayb said: I said: I'm chewing on the other side. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) also smiled. "
3570-) - “... According to what is reported from Ukbe bin Amir al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Do not force us to eat or drink. Because Allah certainly feeds them and makes them drink. )
3571-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to order hasa (a custard-like slurry) when a member of his household fell ill with malaria. Aisha said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to say: this meal will surely strengthen the heart (or strengthen the stomach) of the grieving person, and it will take away the pain from the heart of the patient (or clean the stomach of the patient) just as one of you (women) removes the dirt from his face with water. ) "
3572-) - “... According to what is reported from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Continue to do telbina (that is, to eat hasa) that is disliked.” Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) (continuing her words): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said that when one of his household members was sick, his pot would always be on fire until one of the two sides of it was gone, that is, until he got better or died. .
3573-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the following command from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): In black grain (that is, black cumin) there is a cure for every disease other than sam. ) is death. Habbetü's-Sevdâ (=: black grain) and şûniz (= black cumin). "
3574-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (Ibn-i Omar) (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Continue with Habbetü's-Sevda (using black cumin). For there is no doubt that there is a cure for every disease other than death. ) "
3575-) - “... From Khalid bin Sa'd (Mevlâ Ebî Mes'ûd el-Bedri al-Ansârî) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: We went on a journey. Ghalib bin Ebcer (radiyallahu anh) was also with us. Ghalib fell ill on the way. Finally, we reached Medina-i Münevvere. His illness continued. Ibn Abi Atik (radiyallahu anhuma) came to visit him and said to us: I recommend (using) this Habbetü's-Sevda. Take five or seven of them and (well) grind them down. Then drip it in a few drops of olive oil into the patient's nose from this side and that side. Because Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) told them that she heard the following hadith from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): This Habbetü’s Sevda (nigella sativa) is a cure for every disease. Unless you have sam (disease). ) What is Sam? said. "Sam is death," he said.
3576-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he licks honey in the morning three (days) every month, no big trouble will befall him. ) "
3577-) - “... from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: Some honey was given to him (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He also divided a bite between us. I got my own bite. Then: O Messenger of Allah! I want a bite more? said. He (also): commanded. "
3578-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Continue with two healing things (that is, use it constantly): Honey and the Qur'an. ) "
3579-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said (i Hudri) and Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), these two Companions said that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: sustenance). Its juice is also eye (healing with sickness. Acve (called Medina-i Münevvere) date is from Paradise (fruits) and is a cure for insanity (disease)) ...
3581-) - “... According to what is reported from Said bin Zayd bin Amr bin Nüfeyi (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is a kind of blessing that Allah has sent down to the sons of Israel. Its water is also a cure for the eye (disease). ) "
3582-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (One day) we were talking in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). By the way, we talked about mushrooms. The people there said: Mushroom (like the particles seen on the bodies of children with smallpox) is the flower of the soil (disease). This word was conveyed to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is a kind of sustenance like manna (bounties without burdens). He said that the date Acve (called Medina-i Münevvere) is also from Paradise (fruits) and is a cure for poisoning disease. "
3583-) - “... From Rafi bin Amr al-Muzeni (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): Dates (called Medina-i Munevvere) and the Sahara (the big stone in the Masjid al-Aqsa, which is named after) are from Paradise. ) Abdurrahman said: I memorized the word Sahara from the mouth of my sheikh. "
3584-) - “... From Abu Ubay bin Umm-i Haram (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): and continue to eat sennut (i.e. honey or dill put in a butter bag). Because in these two things, there is no doubt that there is a cure for every disease other than sam.) O Messenger of Allah! What is sam? it was said. He: commanded. Amr said: The narrator Ibn Abi Able said that sennut is dill and some other scholars said: On the contrary, sennut is honey in a bag of butter. Sennût mentioned in the following couplet of the poet means honey: They are honey and butter in the attitude of butter, and there is no betrayal between them. (In other words, that community is in a sweet unity and togetherness, and it is a whole that is mixed with each other faithfully) and they also prevent their neighbors from being cheated. "
3585-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) got up early for prayer. So I got up early (following him) and sat down after praying (a little). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) looked at me and said (in Persian): (Does your stomach hurt?). I yes. I said, O Messenger of Allah. The Messenger of God said (to me): "Get up and pray, because there is no doubt that there is healing in prayer." ... Abu'l-Hasan bin al-Kattân narrated to us the like of it with his deed of ..... and in his narration, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) commanded in Persian; . . . . . . . There is the addition of the meaning of the sentence (So you are (are) uncomfortable with your stomach?). "
3587-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prohibited the use of evil medicine, that is, poison. "
3588-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "If he kills himself by drinking (i.e. swallowing) a poison, that person will stay in the fire of Hell forever and will always be busy swallowing that poison. ) "
3589-) - “... From Esma bint-i Umeys (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to me: (Which medicine would you use for diarrhea?). I said: Shubrum (the plant called). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (He has severe diarrhea). Then I used senna for diarrhea. Thereupon, the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If anything were a cure for death, it would be senna, and senna would be a cure for death. "
3590-) - “... From Umm Kays bint-i Mihsan (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: I went to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) with a boy whose tonsil was inflamed by sticking his finger in his throat due to a so-called throat disease. Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): You are trying to get the inflammation of your children's throat by squeezing their tonsils with your finger. Continue to use Ud-i Hindi (the so-called buckthorn plant). There are seven types of healing in Udi Hindi. For uzre (so-called throat disease), this medicine is inhaled into the nose. He also said for Zatü'l-Cenb (to make the patient drink with water). ... Ahmed bin Amr bin es-Sarh al-Misri also narrated to us a similar amount from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) through Umm Kaya bint-i Mihsan, with his promissory note ..... Yunus said, "It's time". (I mean, I stuck my finger in the boy's throat) and squeezed his tonsil. ) "
3592-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the following from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): (The cure for the Nesa nerve is the tail of an Arabian sheep. This tail is melted and divided into three parts, then a portion is drunk every morning on an empty stomach.) "
3593-) - “... From Sahl bin Sa'd es-Saidi (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: On the day of the (war) Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was wounded, his tooth (called Retaâiye) was broken and the helmet on his head was broken. Thereupon, Fatima (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) was washing his blood. Ali (radiyallahu anh) was also pouring water with a shield. Finally, when Fâtime (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) saw that the blood was increasing with water (rather than resting), he took a piece of straw and burned it, and when it turned into ashes, he put it on the wound, so the blood stopped. "
3594-) - “... From Sahl bin Sa'd es-Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: I know who injured the blessed face of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) on the day of Uhud and who I know without a doubt that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stopped the blood from the wound on his blessed face and treated it, who carried water on the shield, and with what treatment the wound stopped bleeding. Sahl said: The person carrying the water was Ali (bin Ebi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh). He burned the fragment and put the ashes on the wound. That's how the wound stopped bleeding."
3595-) - “... According to what is narrated from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "A person who engages in treatment (and harms the patient) without first having knowledge of medical practice (i.e. healthy treatment) is on time (i.e. he is obliged to diet)".
3596-) - “... According to what is reported from Zayd bin Erkam (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) vers (that is, the victory of Yemen herb), kust (the plant called buckthorn) for the treatment of pleurisy. and olive oil (mixing each other) in the patient's mouth. "
3597-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Kays bint-i Mihsan (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Continue to use Hindi (the narrator said that by Ud-i Hindi he meant sulky, that is, the plant we call buckthorn). Because there are undoubtedly seven healings in Ud-i Hindi. Zatülcenb (healing from this disease) is one of them. )
3598-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): (Once) there was talk of fever (disease) in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), a man cursed it. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to the man): Do not curse. Because fire removes the rust and dirt of iron, and fever (disease) also removes sins). "
3599-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): once, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) visited a patient (who was lying down) due to the severity of his fever (disease) with Abu Huraira accompanying him. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to the patient): Good tidings. Because Allahu ta'ala says: Fever (disease) is my fever. I am instructing him on my believing servant in this world, so that my servant will have a share of the fire in the hereafter (the fever he suffered in the world). "
3600-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (his illness) is (a part) of the intensity of the heat of Hell. You cool it with water. ) "
3601-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The severity of fever (disease) is (a part) of the intensity of the heat of Hell. You cool it with water. ) "
3602-) - “... From Rafi bin Hadic (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the order of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam): "Fever (disease) is due to the severity of the heat of Hell (a bit of it. You cool it with water). Then the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) went to one of Aramar's (sick) sons and said: Get rid of the sick person's illness and cure him. O Lord of men, O God of men) he prayed. "
3603-) - “... According to what is reported from Esma (radiyallahu anhuma), the daughter of Abu Bakr-i Siddik: The woman who was suffering from the severity of her (disease) fever was being taken to her. He would ask for water and pour it on the patient's collar (that is, between his collar and his body) and he would say: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Cool the fever (disease) with water) and said: “The severity of the (disease) heat is a little less than the intensity of the heat of Hell (a little bit). )) he commanded. "
3604-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (his illness) is a bellows from Hell. You remove it from yourself with cold water. ) "
3605-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If there is any good (that is, benefit) in any of the things you treat, it is cupping. ) "
3606-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: On the night I was taken from Haram to Masjid al-Aqsa (that is, the night of Mi'raj), all the great congregations I encountered from the angels were saying to me: O Muhammad, continue to be a caretaker. ) "
3607-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "What a good servant of Allah is the person who does it. It removes the blood, lightens the back and illuminates the eyes) "According to the narration from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The night I was taken from Haram to Masjid al-Aqsa (that is, the night of Mi'raj) Every eye-catching crowd I passed by was saying to me: O Muhammad! Order your ummah to be cupped.)
3609-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), she asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) for permission to be cupped, and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (sallam) ordered Abu Tayba (Nâfi) (radiy-Allâhu anh) to take care of him. The narrator said, I think that Abu Tayba is either Umm Salama's foster sister or a child who has not reached the age of puberty yet. "
3610-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Buhayne (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (in the Farewell Pilgrimage) he had cupping from the middle of his head while he was in Ihram in the Lahy-i Jamel (the place called). "
3611-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (Alayhis Salam) told the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (two veins on both sides of the neck, called Ahdaayn) He sent down the command to make cupping at his level and between the two shoulders. " ". . According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) there was cupping in the ahdaayn (in line with the two veins called) and between his shoulders. "
3613-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Kebsha al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh): He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to make him cup his head and between his two shoulders and say: ) for anything it wouldn't hurt to not be treated with something else. ) "
3614-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) fell off his horse (once) and fell on a palm branch and his feet came out. Veki said: In other words, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) had him cupped on his feet due to an injury. "
3615-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If he wants to be a cupper, he should search and choose the seventeenth or nineteenth or the twenty-first day (of the lunar month), and let him not overpower any of you by bloodshed and kill him. ) "
3616-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: Nafi prevailed over me by increasing my blood. Therefore, you seek a cupper for me. If you can afford it, choose a cupper who is useful and can do this job well. The person you will find is neither too old nor too young a child. (The reason why I want to be a teacher is this:) Because I heard the following command from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): Being on an empty stomach is more beneficial. Being a teacher increases the mind, increases the power of memorization, and strengthens the ability of a hafiz. Now, whoever wants to be cupped, let it be on Thursday (hijama) by mentioning Allah's (blessed) name. Avoid being hijama on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Be hijama on Monday and Tuesday as well. Avoid being hijama on Wednesday. Because Wednesday is the day when trouble befalls Ayyub and neither leprosy (disease) nor baras (disease) occur on any day or night other than Wednesday or Wednesday night. ) "
3617-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: It is more useful to be on an empty stomach. Being a teacher increases the mind, increases the power of memorization, and strengthens the ability of a hafiz. Now, whoever wants to be cupped, let it be on Thursday (hijama) by mentioning Allah's (blessed) name. Avoid being hijama on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Be hijama on Monday and Tuesday as well. Avoid being hijama on Wednesday. Because Wednesday is the day when trouble befalls Ayyub, and neither leprosy (disease) nor baras (disease) occur on any day or night other than Wednesday or Wednesday night. ) "
3618-) - “... According to what is reported from Akkar bin al-Muğîre's father (Al-Muğîre bin Şu'be) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If it makes his body cauterize or wants to breathe for him, he will be freed from putting his trust (in Allah). ) "
3619-) - “... From Imran bin al-Husayn (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prevented us from cauterizing us. Then I cauterized my body, but I did not get rid of (disease) and did not succeed (in treatment). "
3620-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: There are three things: drinking honey syrup, hitting the cupping device and cauterizing with fire. But I forbid cauterizing my ummah with fire.) Ibn Abbas narrated this as merfû (i.e. the command of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)). "
3621-) - “... According to what is reported from Yahya (bin Sa'd bin Zürâre) (radiy-Allâhu anhu): bin Zürâre (radiy-Allâhu anh) caught a throat disease called zübaha (Sa'd bin Zürâre, Yahya's narrator Muhammad 's maternal grandfather) Upon this illness, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: I swear that I will be so careful about Abu Umama (that is, the treatment of Sa'd bin Zurare) that no one will have anything to say, and Sa'd' He branded me with his blessed hand. Then Sa'd (unable to be saved) died. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I wish for a bad death. (Because) they will say: Why did Muhammad not expel death from his friend? However, I do not rule over anything either for him or for myself (that is, judgment and discretion are reserved for Allah)). "
3622-) - “... From Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: bin Ka'b (radiyallahu anh) fell ill. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent a physician to him. The doctor cauterized his ekhal (called arm vein). "
3623-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) he cauterized Sa’d bin Muaz (radiy-Allâhu anh)’s ekhal (arm vein) twice. "
3624-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Omar) (radiyallahu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Continue to apply the so-called lashes to your eyes. Because it cleans the eye, increases eyesight and (feeds) the eyelashes.) "
3625-) - “... from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam): Continue to lure your eyes with the time ismid. Because it cleans the eye, increases eyesight, and grows hairs (that is, by feeding eyelashes). ) "
3626-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The best one is ismid (the so-called riding). It cleans the eye, increases its brightness and grows hairs (i.e. eyelashes). ) "
3627-) - “... . According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he puts eyeliner on his eyes (like once, three, five times), let him do it once. Whoever does (such a single) will have done a good deed, and whoever does not (even and odd) there is no sin (for him)."
3628-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had a lather. He used to take kohl from it three times in each eye. "
3629-) - “... From Tarik bin Suveyd al-Hadramî (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: O Messenger of Allah, there are grapes in our country. We extract its water and drink its wine (what is commanded)? said. He said: (No (don't)). Then I appealed to him (again) and said: We want to treat the patient with him. He said: (It (wine) is definitely not a cure, but a disease). "
3630-) - “... According to what is reported from Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The best is the Qur'an. ) "
3631-) - “... From Salma Umm Rafi (and Abu Rafi's wife) (radiyallahu anhum), the freed concubine of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh); He said: When one side of him (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was injured or a thorn pricked on one side, he would put henna on that place. "
3632-) - “... From Anas (bin Malik) (radiy-Allâhu anh): Some people from his tribe (to reside in Medina-i Münevvere) came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) They came and settled. Then they could not get used to the climate of Medina and fell ill. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to them): Go to a herd of camels (to the place called Gâbe) and drink the milk and urine of the camels. They (so) did. "
3633-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: One of its two wings has poison and the other has a cure. Therefore, when a fly falls into a food (or drink), submerge it (then remove it and throw it away). Because the fly (since it protects itself with its poisonous wing) stings its poisonous wing first and delays the healing.)
3634-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Your drink (when it falls with something, the person who drinks it should dip all parts of the fly into it, then throw the fly away. Because one of the two wings of the fly is disease and the other is healing) "
3635-) - “... According to what is reported from Amir bin Rebia (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: ) "
3636-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: ) "
3637-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Take refuge in Allah. Because the eye (touch work) is real. ) "
3638-) - “... From Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), son of Sahl bin Hunayf; He said: While Sahl bin Hunayf was washing, Amir bin Rebia passed by him and said (referring to the beauty of his body): "I have never seen anything beautiful like today, including the skin of an unmarried young veiled girl." Immediately after this statement, Sahl bin Hunayf collapsed to the ground. Thereupon, Sahl was taken to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said to him: Rasûlallah! It was said to Sahl, who collapsed to the ground due to the evil eye, catch up. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Are you suspicious?) They said: Amir bin Rabia. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (reprimanding Âmir): Why does one of you (religion) kill his brother? When one of you sees something from his (religious) brother that he likes or admires, he should pray for him to be blessed.) He asked for some water and ordered Amir to perform ablution. Amir also washed his face, arms up to the elbows, knees and the inside of his loincloth (that is, from the waist down) and the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered Amir to pour this water (which accumulates in a bowl) on his head. Sufyan said: According to the narration of Mamer from Zuhri: And the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered Amir to turn the container upside down behind him and put it on the ground. "
3639-) - “... According to what is reported from Asma (bint-i Umeys) (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she said: Rasûlallah (son of Abu Talib) is seriously looking at the sons of Cafer. Shall I make them read with the wish of healing? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Because if there was something competing with fate, the evil eye would have passed it (competing) (that is, it would have changed fate). "
3640-) - “... From Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to seek refuge in Allah from the evil eye of the jinn and then from the eyes of humans (with prayers such as I seek refuge in Allah from the evil eye of jinn and humans). Then, when Muavvizetan (that is, the Surahs of Felak and Nas) descended, he kept these surahs and left another (that is, other prayers). "
3641-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered her to breathe because of the evil eye. "
3642-) - “... According to what is reported from Burayda (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "It is useful to breathe." ) "According to what is reported from Halide bint-i Anas Umm Bani Hazm al-Saidiyye (radiy-Allâhu anha): She went to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and presented what she read to him so that the sick could be healed. The sallam) ordered him to read (that is, allowed him to read) those things.
3644-) - “... From Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: A household called Âli Amr bin Hazm was breathing because of the poison of poisonous animals (that is, they were reading to the patient who was poisoned by the animals mentioned). When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade the work of breathing, that household went to him and said: O Messenger of Allah! You forbade the work of breathing. However, they said, "We breathe the poison caused by the bites of poisonous animals (what is commanded?"). Thereupon, the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to them: “Present what you have read to me.” They also offered to Him. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There is no harm in breathing with what you read. These are some covenants.” "
3645-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) allowed breathing due to poisoning, evil eye, and moisture (called boils) from poisonous animals. "
3646-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave permission to breathe because of the stings of snakes and scorpions. "
3647-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: he stung a man, but that night he could not sleep. Then it was said to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): A scorpion stung such and such a man and he could not sleep that night. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: You should know that when that man goes in the evening; If he had said, "I seek refuge in Allah's perfect words from the evil of creatures," no scorpion's sting would have harmed him until the morning.)
3648-) - “... from Amr bin Hazm (radiyallahu anh); He said: I presented the rukya (breathing) recited because of the snake bite to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He ordered it (that is, allowed it to be read). "
3650-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), sometimes the breathing of the patient would be like this: (Blessed martyrdom) by smearing a little (blessed) saliva on his finger (and rubbing his finger on the ground) ) : by name (I wish for healing). This is the soil of our country mixed with the saliva of some of us, for the healing of our patient with the permission of our Lord). "
3651-) - “... From Osman bin Abi'l-As es-Sakafi (radiyallahu anh); He said: I went to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) even though I was suffering from a pain that brought me close to destruction. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) told me: Put your hand on the painful place and; by name (I wish for healing). I seek refuge in the glory and power of Allah from the evil of the pain I am still feeling and the pain that I am afraid of, say my prayer seven times). That's what I said too. Then God healed me. "
3652-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh): (Aleyhis Salam) came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Muhammad, are you disturbed? said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: (Yes). Gabriel (breathing to Him) said: In the name of Allah, I seek refuge in Him, so that you can get rid of everything that hurts. May Allah grant you healing from the evil of every soul or every eye or every envious person. In the name of Allah, I read it to you, asking for healing. ) "
3653-) - “... From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to visit me (at one time) due to my illness and said to me: (A rukya (the patient’s recovery) brought to me by Gabriel’ Should I not recite the prayer about your wish to you?) he said. Me: May my father and mother be sacrificed for you. Read, O Messenger of Allah, I said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) recited the following prayer three times: I recite it to you in His name, wishing you well and taking refuge in Allah. May Allah grant you healing from every disease you have, from the evil of the sorcerers who breathe into the knots, and from the evil of the envious when he is envious. ) "
3654-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to his (grandchildren) Hasan and Husayn for their protection; He used to recite the prayer of Allah's perfect words (i.e., I seek refuge in the verses of the Qur'an or the names and attributes of Allah) from the devil and poisonous insects and from every evil eye that touches them. He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (And he took refuge in Allah with this prayer he made to our father Abraham, Ishmael and Ishaq) or (And he took refuge in Allah with this prayer he made to our father Abraham, Ishmael and Yakub).
3655-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) taught them to recite the following prayer for fever and pain: In the name of Allah, who is (I seek healing) . I seek refuge in Allah, the Most High, from the evil of the vein that spurts blood and the heat of the fire. ) Abu Amir said: I oppose the people in this; Instead of the word "Naaar"; . . . . . . i say. ... Abdurrahman bin İbrahim ed-Dımışki narrated the like of it from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) with his deed of ..... and; (From the evil of the vein whose blood comes out loud). "
3657-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) when he was afflicted with the severity of fever, Gabriel (Aleyhisselâm) came to him and recited the following prayer: I wish you healing). I read to you so that you can get rid of everything that torments you and protect you. May Allah grant you healing from the envy of the envious and from every evil eye.)
3658-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to blow while reading to the sick, seeking refuge in Allah, seeking healing. "
3659-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: When he fell ill, he would recite the chapters of Muavviza on himself and whistle. When his pain intensified (in his last illness), I would recite (Muavviza suras) to him and rub his body with his hand, hoping for his blessings. "
3660-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud)'s wife, Zaynab (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: a woman would come to us and read about humrah (a kind of plague called). We had a sofa with long legs. When (my wife) Abdullah would enter the house, he would cough and call out (to make him feel that he was coming). One day, Abdullah entered the house. When the old reader heard his voice, she hid from him. Abdullah also came and sat next to me and when his hand touched me, it touched a thread. Then: What is this? said. I said: It is read on this thread to prevent the disease (called Humrah). Thereupon, Abdullah pulled the thread and threw it, saying: The people of Abdullah's household do not need to use something that is considered shirk (that is, associating partners with Allah). He said, I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "The evil eye and magic are certainly shirk (that is, associating partners with Allah)". Me: I went out one day and the man saw me. On top of that, my eye on his side was teary-eyed. Since that day, I said that when I have my eyes read, my tears stop and when I stop reading, my eyes will shed. Abdullah: He is the devil. When you obey him, he leaves you, and when you disobey him, he pokes you in the eye with his finger. However, if you had done as the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) did, it would be good for you and it would be very appropriate for you to be healed: Sprinkle water in your eyes and say: (This disease will go away, O Lord of people. Heal. Only you heal. He said, "There is no cure other than your healing. Give a healing that leaves no disease." "
3661-) - “... According to what is reported from Imran bin Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw a man with a bronze ring on his arm and said: What is the ring?). The man said: It is because of vahine (called arm pain). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): remove it. Because it increases your discomfort.) "
3662-) - “... from Umm Jundub (radiyallahu anh); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) throw a stone from the creek on the first day of Eid-al-Adha. After the Messenger of Allah threw the stones, he left and a woman from Has'am followed him. The woman had a child with her, who fell ill with the inability to speak. Woman: Messenger of Allah! This is my son and the only survivors of my family's apostles. “He has had the trouble of not being able to speak,” he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Bring some water. Some water was brought to him. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) washed his hands (with that water) and rinsed his mouth. Then he gave the water to the woman and said: Drink this water, pour some of it on him and seek healing from Allah for him.) Umm Jundub said: Then I met the woman and said: I wish you to donate some of that water to me. The woman said: That water is only for this patient. Umm Jundub said: I met the woman a year later and asked her about her son. The woman said: My son has recovered and has become wiser with a mind unlike the minds of the people. "
3663-) - “... From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered to kill Zi’t-Tufayteyn (and he said as a justification): Because this kind of snake takes the light out of the eye and kills the pregnant woman. she aborts her child. (with the word Zi't-Tufeyteyn) he meant a kind of malignant snake. "
3664-) - “... According to what is reported from Salim's father (Abdullah bin Omar) (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Kill and (especially) the Zit-Tufayteyan variety (that is, with two white or black lines behind it) and its tailless type. Because these two kinds of snakes take away the light of the eye and they abort the pregnant woman's baby.)
3665-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) liked good tafeüül (that is, considering something auspicious and beneficial) and disliked tiyere (that is, considering something unlucky). "
3666-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “There is no contagiousness (without the will of Allah in person) and there is no tyrae (that is, considering something unlucky). I like useful contemplation (i.e. counting something auspicious)"
3667-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): (Tıyere (that is, considering something unlucky) is a kind of shirk (associating partners with Allah) ) truck,) he ordered. However, there is no one who does not have a feeling of considering certain things as unlucky in his heart. However, Allah has said that he will remove this feeling with tawakkul. "
3668-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "There is no contagious disease (in itself), there is no suffocation, there is no element and an owl (the effect of its crowing) and there is no Safar (the bad luck of the moon)."
3669-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “No disease (in itself) is contagious, there is no suffocation, and there is no effect of a bird and an owl (crow). Thereupon, a man stood up to him and said: Messenger of Allah! He said, "A camel gets scabies, and then a herd of camels gets scabies from it," he said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (It is destiny. Otherwise, who made the first camel mange?)
3670-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said:
3671-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) took the hand of a man who was afflicted with leprosy, then put his hand in the bowl with him and said: Eat (with me). I trust in Allah and rely on Allah.)
3672-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Do not constantly look at lepers.)
3673-) - “... From the father of a man called Amr from the Sharid family (Sharid bin Suveyd es-Sakafi) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: There was a leprosy man in the delegation (who came to Medina-i Münevvere to represent his tribe). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent the following message to that man: Return (to your homeland). We accepted your allegiance.)
3674-) - “... from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: A Jew called Labîd bin al-A'sam, one of the Jews of Zürayk, cast a spell on the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) once. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) thought that he could do some things even though he was unable to do so. Aisha said: Finally, one day or one night, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed three times (to get rid of this ailment) and said: Aisha, do you know? God accepted my prayer. It is as follows: Two men came to me (Gabriel and Michael). One of them sat at my head and the other at my feet. The person at my head, the person at my feet, or the person at my feet to the person at my head: What is this person's discomfort? she asked. He replied: He has been enchanted. Questioner: Who cast magic on him? she asked. He replied: Labîd bin al-A'sam. Questioner (this time): In what thing did he do magic? she asked. He replied: A comb, a comb of hair and beard, and the flower cap of the male date palm. Questioner: Where is that magic material? she asked. He said: Zi is in the Ervan well.) He said: Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) went to that well with some of his Companions. After coming from there, she said: O Aisha, the water of that well is just like water mixed with henna (red), and the date trees around the well are like the heads of devils (that is, there is no good in either their water or their trees). he said; Me: O Messenger of Allah! So you didn't (take out) that magic ingredient and burn it? said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: (I did not take it out) and burned it. Because Allah healed me and I was worried that by burning it (by taking it out), I was worried that the evil of magic would spread among the people). (Aisha said: Then, by the order of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), that well was closed."
3675-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha): Messenger of Allah! “You get sick every year because of the poisoned sheep (meat) you eat,” he said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I will get sick from that poisonous sheep as much as the amount written about me when I was in his own mud (that is, its creation was not completed yet). "
3676-) - “... According to what is narrated from Havle bint-i Hakim (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When he goes down to a mansion, he says: (I seek refuge in Allah's perfect words from the evil of creatures), nothing can harm him in that mansion until he leaves there.)
3677-) - “... From Osman bin Ebü'l-Âs (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: "At the time when (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) appointed me as the governor of Taif, something started to happen to me in my prayer, I did not even know what I was doing. When I saw this situation, I got up (from Taif to Medina-i Munevvere) and went to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (when he saw me): (Son of Abu'l-As?). I said: Yes, O Messenger of Allah. He said: (What is the reason that brought you (here)?). Me: Messenger of Allah! Something happened to me in my prayers, I said, 'I don't know what I'm doing. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “What you are describing is for the devil. Bring him closer to me.” Then I came near Him and sat on my feet (kneeling). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) : (Mubarak) hit my chest with his hand, spat in my mouth and said: (Get out. O enemy of Allah,). He repeated this task three times. Then he said (to me): be busy with your work. The narrator said: Then 'Uthman said: I swear I do not think that the devil has come to me after that. "
3678-) - “... From Abu Layla (al-Ansari) (radiyallahu anh); He said: I (once) was sitting next to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). At that moment, a Bedouin came to the presence and said: I have a brother. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked: What is his illness? The Bedouin said: My brother has some kind of madness. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (bedouin) said: Bring him to me.) Abu Layla said: The Bedouin also went and brought him and made him sit in front of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). I heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) recite the following, seeking refuge in Allah so that he might be healed: Surah Fatiha, four verses from the beginning of Surah Al-Baqara, from the middle; . . . . . . . . . . verse of Ayetu'l-Kursi, the last three verses of the same surah, a verse from the chapter of Ali Imran (I think he said: . . . . . . .), from the chapter of A'raf; . . . . . . . . . the verse from the chapter of Mu'minun; . . . . . . . . . verse. From the chapter of Jinn; . . . . . . . . . verse, ten verses from the beginning of the chapter of Saffat, three verses from the end of the chapter of Hashr, chapter of Ikhlas and chapter of Muavvizetayn. After (the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) had recited these), the Bedouin got up and got up without any ailments. "
3679-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prayed in an embroidered black cloak. Then he said: The embroidery of the coat kept me busy (that is, it seemed to attract my attention). Take this to Abu Jahm (back) and bring me his enbicâniye (without embroidery)."
3680-) - “... From Abu Bürde (bin Ebî Mûsâ al-Aş'ari) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: I went to Aisha (radiyallahu anha). He took off a caftan for me (show him) an izar (car wrapped around the waist down from the body) and a robe called mulebbede (that is, as if it were matted by being patched), made of full fabric woven in Yemen, and swore to me: wa sallam) died in these two clothes, he said. " '..... From Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prayed in a semla (jar-ihram) and tied it up (so that the carriage would not fall due to its small size).
3682-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: I was with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He was wearing a ridâ (i.e. a seamless ihram-like garment covering the upper part of the body) made of Najran with thick fringe. "
3683-) - “... According to what Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) is told, she said: I did not see the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) insult anyone or a garment being rolled up for him. "
3684-) - “... From Sahl bin Sa'd es-Saidi (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The woman brought a poster to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Sahl asked: What is the curtain? -he asked the people there -and he continued to answer the question - It is a curtain -that is, it is seamless like ihram.) Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) also took the burda. He already needed such a desk. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) wore that burda as an izar (that is, wrapped around his body from the waist down) and went out (from the house) to us. Then his son and so-and-so (a man whose name Sahl told him that day) came and said: Messenger of Allah, how beautiful is this here! “Grab this for me,” he said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: (Okay). Then when he entered the house, he rolled up the curtain and sent it to that man. To the congregational man who was ready there: You did not do well. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was dressed as his need for this burial. Then they said, 'You asked him for a sign even though you knew that he never rejected anyone who asked for anything. And the man (in response to this strangeness): I did not want to wear this veil. And he said, 'But (when I die) I wanted it to be my shroud. He said: Then, on the day this person died, he really became his shroud here. "
3685-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wore a woolen dress and patched shoes, and wore a seriously harsh dress. "
3686-) - “... From Abu Umama (al-Bahili) (radiyallahu anh); He said: bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh) put on a new dress and said: Praise be to Allah, who covered it, arranged my clothes well, and made me wear it; I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) say: "Whoever puts on a new dress and says, then goes to the clothes that he has worn out or thrown away, and gives it as charity; alive and dead (i.e. in this world and in the hereafter) he is under the protection of Allah. It happens in the protection (protection) of Allah and in the seat (cover) of Allah.) He would repeat it three times.
3687-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (one day) saw a white robe on Umar (bin al-Khattab) and said to him. ) : Is this dress washed (or is it new?). de : (not new). But it was washed, he said. The Messenger of God said (to him): (Wear a new dress, live as a praiser (or live a happy life) and die a martyr (die))"
3688-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade two kinds of dressing. Those clothes are called istimal-i samina (clothing) and to sit on the coarse and sew up the legs and wrap themselves in a single dress so that the private part is not covered.
3689-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade two kinds of clothing: Istimâl-i samma (the so-called dressing) and by sitting on the coats and sewing the private parts towards the sky. from being wrapped in a single garment by opening it (that is, leaving the private part uncovered). "
3690-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade two types of dressing: Wearing a garment (the so-called istimâl-i-sanima) and wrapping in a single garment, sitting on the rough, sewing the legs even though you have opened the private part towards the sky (that is, left it uncovered). "
3691-) - “... From Abu Bürde (bin Ebî Mûsâ al-Aş'ari) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (Abu Musa al-Ash'ari one day) said to me: O my son! When it rained on us when we were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), you would have mistaken our (clothes) smell as the smell of sheep if you had been with us. "
3692-) - “... from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: One day (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) dressed in a Rumi robe made of wool with narrow sleeves, he came out to us (from the house) and led us in prayer in that robe. He was wearing nothing but that robe. "
3693-) - “... According to what is reported from Salman-i Farisi (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed ablution once, then turned the woolen robe he was wearing and dried his face with it. "
3694-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) aiming at the ears of his flock, and I saw him wearing a kisa (sewn garment) from the waist down. "
3695-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The best one is the one with white color. Therefore, wear white clothes and commemorate your dead with a white shroud.)
3696-) - “... According to what is reported from Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Wear the white one. Because the white dress is cleaner and more beautiful. ) "
3697-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu'd-Darda (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: And the most beautiful garment to visit Allah in your mosques - the shroud - is undoubtedly the white one.)
3698-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: On the Day of Judgment, Allah will not look (or show mercy) to a person who drags his clothes (on the ground) out of arrogance. ) "
3699-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If he drags his izar (the dress he wears from the waist down) on the ground out of arrogance, Allah will not look at him (or have mercy) on the Day of Judgment. ) "...
3701-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): A young man walked past Abu Hurayra, dragging his (on the ground) his dress hanging down from his heels. Thereupon, Abu Huraira said: My brother's son, I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say the following hadith: If he drags his clothes (on the ground) out of arrogance, Allah will not look at him (with a glance of mercy) on the Day of Judgment (or will not show mercy). ) "
3702-) - “... from Huzeyfe (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) holding the lower part of my calf or his calf muscle (that is, the very meaty rough part): this is the place (that is, the place where it will be extended). If you (avoid this) (that is, if you want to make it longer) go below it, if you refuse (that) go below it too. If you refuse (that much) (i.e. you want to extend it further), the izar has no right to the heels (i.e. the izar should not cover the heels). ... of Huzeyfe. Ali bin Muhammad (also) narrated to us the same hadith that he narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with his deed. "
3704-) - “... From Al-Alâ bin Abdirrahman's father (Abdurrahman bin Yaqub al-Juheni) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said to Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh): Did you hear anything from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about the length of the dress called the izar? I asked. Abu Said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: The length of his izar is up to the middle of his calves. There is no sin for him in wearing the izar that is between the heels with it. The one below the heels (the body at the level of the izar part) is in the fire.) He (also) said three times: He (who wears it) does not look (or show mercy) to a person who drags his izan (on the ground) by being arrogant. ) "
3705-) - “... According to what is reported from Al-Muğîre bin Shu'ba (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Do not let Sufyan bin Sahl's izân (down from the heels). Because Allah does not like those who hang their izar (down from the heels). ) "
3706-) - “... from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: There was no dress more beloved to him (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) than a kamîs (long shirt). "
3707-) - “... According to what is reported from Salim's father (Abdullah bin Omar) (radiyallahu anhum); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (i.e., the forbidden garment to be drooping – lengthening) is also found in the izar (i.e. the dress that covers the lower part of the body from the waist down), the kamîs (long shirt-dress) and the turban. Abu Bakr (bin Abi Shayba) said: I (the narrator) do not know Ibn Abi Rawwad. "
3708-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to wear a kamis (shirt - robe) with short sleeves and short sleeves. "
3709-) - “... From Kurre (bin Eyas al-Muzeni) (radiyallahu anh); He said: I went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and gave him allegiance. At that time, the button of his shirt was untied (ie without a buttonhole). Urwa said: That's why I saw Muawiya and his son always unbuttoned (shirt) in winter and summer (seasons). "
3710-) - “... from Suveyd bin Kays (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) came to us (while we were selling clothes in Minâ) and bought a mine by bargaining for a long underwear. "
3711-) - “... from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said to (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): How much (more than the man’s) does a woman hang from her skirt? he was asked. He said (a span). I said: When (when the woman walks) a part of her body (feet) will open. O : zira (extendable). The woman cannot do more than that.) "
3712-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: It was permissible for the wives of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) to dangle their skirts (from the man's skirt) for one zircon (extra). Now they would come to us. We used to measure a grain for them with a straw. "
3713-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Fatimah or Umm Salama: your skirt is a zira) (that is, a zira is longer than a man's skirt). "
3714-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said about the skirts of women: let them hang down a span (more than one inch). Thereupon, Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: When (while the women walk), their calves (exposed). He said: (In that case, one zira (suffices)). "
3715-) - “... from Amr bin Hureys (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I saw the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) delivering a sermon on the pulpit and wearing a black turban.
3716-) - “... from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with a black turban on his head (year of conquest)
3717-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered (Mecca) with a black sank at the beginning of the day of conquest. "
3718-) - “... from Amr bin Hureys (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) is in front of my eyes with a black turban on his head and hanging the ends of the turban between his shoulders, as if I am looking at him. "
3719-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he wears silk in this world, he will not be able to wear it in the hereafter. ) "
3720-) - “... According to what is reported from Barâ (bin Azib) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade satin (with a bowstring and a silk tie), silk and a thick atlas (with a bow and a silk bow). . "
3721-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe (bin al-Yemân) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade wearing silk and using gold (jewelry - pots) and it is for unbelievers in this world and for us in the hereafter. ), he ordered. "
3722-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): bin al-Khattab saw a coat of silk (for sale) and said: Rasûlallah, if only special committees (from outside) would wear this dress. and buy it (to wear) for Friday, he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Only a person who has no share in the Hereafter (silk dress) will wear it). "
3723-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) Zubayr bin al-Awwam and Abdurrahman bin Avf (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) were told to wear silk shirts because of the scabies disease in their bodies. allowed. "
3724-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Osman an-Nehdi (radiyallahu anh): (bin al-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh) forbade silk and dibâç (i.e. atlas made of silk). He pointed with one finger, then the second finger, then the third finger, and then the fourth finger, saying that only this amount is excluded, and said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to forbid us from silk."
3725-) - “... (Daughter of Abu Bakr-i Siddik) Esma's maul, Abu Omar (radiyallahu anhum); He said: I saw that Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) bought a turban with a realm (that is, a piece of silk embroidered like a piping) and cut that realm by asking for a celemeyn (wool scissors called). Then I went to Asma (bint-i Abu Bakr) and told her about this situation. Thereupon, Esma: Amazed Abdullah! He said, "O concubine, bring the robe of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The concubine brought a robe that was covered with dibac (a satin made of pure wool with a ruffle and an atlas) around her sleeves, collar and slits, (and Esma said: This robe was with Aisha until she passed away. When she passed away, I took the robe and the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) (sallam) was wearing it. We wash this robe for the sick. He (his blessings) beg for healing (from Allah). "
3726-) - “... from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) took a piece of silk cloth in his left hand and a piece of gold in his right hand, then raised them with his hands (showing them to the public): two things are unlawful for the men of my ummah, but permissible for their women. "
3727-) - “... From Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: Or a layer of clothing with a silk sash was presented to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He also sent it to me. Thereupon, I went to him and said: Messenger of Allah! What should I do with that dress? (Shall I) wear it? said. He said: (No (don't wear it), but (break it up) make head coverings and (divide) it among the Fatima). (I did as well). "
3728-) - “... From Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (one day) came to us with a silk garment in one hand and a piece of gold in the other, and said: These two things are forbidden to the men of my ummah, but are permissible for their women. "
3729-) - “... from Enes (radiyallahu anh); He said: I saw a shirt made of silk fabric with sticks on Zaynab, the daughter of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). "
3731-) - “... From Burayda (bin al-Husayb) (radiyallahu anh); He said: I saw Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) delivering a sermon. (During the sermon) Hasan and Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) came, they were wearing two red shirts, and they were walking stumblingly (because they were young). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) descended (from the pulpit) and took them and placed them in his lap. Then: And they told the Messenger the truth, = Surely, your wealth and your children are a trial, and the great reward is with Allah. ) (Taghabun, 15) (I saw these, but I couldn't be patient), he said. Then he continued his sermon. "
3732-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade mufeddem clothing. Yazid said: What is my Mufeddem to Ben al-Hasan? I asked. Al-Hasan said: Müfeddem is a (cloth dress) dyed with safflower. "
3733-) - “... According to what Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) has been told, he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prevented me from wearing (cloth, dress) dyed with safflower. I wouldn't say He forbade you. "
3734-) - “... From Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: We were coming from the Azâhir mountain road together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). For a while, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) turned and looked at me. I was wearing a seamless car (or a thin soft dress) painted with safflower. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (mark on the dress I am wearing: what is it?). I realized that he didn't like it. Then I came to my household. At that time, they were heating their tandoori by fire. I threw that dress in the tandoor. The next day I went to His presence. Him: Abdullah! What did you do with that dress (ie what condition?)) he said. So I informed him (of the situation). Thereupon, he said: You should have dressed some of your family members. Because there is no sin for women to wear such clothes.) "
3735-) - “... from Kays bin Sa'd (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came to us. We have put water for Him to cool off. It was washed too. Then I brought him a yellow sheet (with which he was dried). Then I saw the trace of vers (that is, the victory of Yemen on the sheet) on the folds of his abdomen. "
3736-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Drink, give alms and dress, unless extravagance or arrogance interfere with it. ) "
3737-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'If he wears a dress that makes him famous, Allah will make him wear the clothes of disgrace on the Day of Judgment. ) "
3738-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he wears a dress that makes him famous in the world, Allah will make that person wear the clothes of disgrace on the Day of Judgment, and then ignite a fire in that dress. ) "According to what is reported from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he puts on a dress of fame, Allah turns away from him (that is, does not look at him with the eye of mercy), and when he finally humbles him, he humbles him.
3740-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: I heard the following command from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): If the leather is tanned, it will be cleaned (shar'an). ) "
3741-) - “... From Meymuna (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He said: While a cattle that was given to a freed slave of his (himself) from charity (wealth) died, he, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) passed by him and said: They should have used it after taking its skin and tanning it (i.e. why didn't they do that)? ) commanded. Those present said: Messenger of Allah, this cattle is unclean (that is, it died without being slaughtered). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It was forbidden to eat an animal alone. "
3742-) - “... From Salman (radiyallahu anh); He said: Some of his mothers (that is, the wives of the Prophet (pbuh)) had a flock. The animal is dead. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) passed by the place where the animal was and said: If they had used its skin, it would not have harmed them (that is, it would not have been a sin). ) commanded. "
3743-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered to use the skins of dead animals when tanned. "
3744-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ukeym (radiyallahu anh); He said: We received a letter from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saying: “Do not use the skin of an animal and its nerve fibers.” "
3745-) - “... From Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The shoe of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) had two qiblas (leash put between the toes) with a double collar. "
3746-) - “... from Enes (radiyallahu anh); He said: The shoe of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) had two qiblas (leash put between the toes). "
3747-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When he puts on his shoes, start with his right foot, and when he takes off his left foot, first. ) "
3748-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "One does not walk (i.e., not walk) with a single shoe or a single mest (in front of the public). Either you take off both (walk barefoot), or you can walk in both (i.e., walk dressed). "
3749-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade a man to wear his shoes while standing. "
3750-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade a man to wear his shoes while standing. "
3751-) - “... According to what is reported from Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh): He gave a plain black double mest to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He also wore it. "
3752-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: And Christians do not dye their white beards. You oppose them (i.e. paint your white beards). "
3753-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Zer (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: The best thing you use to change the whiteness of the beard is henna and ketem (the herb called ketem). ) "
3754-) - “... From Osman (bin Abdillah) bin Mevhib (radiyallahu anh); He said: I went before Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), (the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Uthman said: Umm Salama took a hair dyed with henna and linen from the hair of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and showed it to me. "
3755-) - “. From Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: Bekr-i Siddik's father) was brought to the presence of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) on the day of the conquest of Mecca. His head — and his beard — was also like a sagame (plant) (because of his white hair). Thereupon, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Take him to one of his women so that she can change the color of her hair (with a dye) and keep it away from black dye.
3756-) - “. According to what is narrated from Suhaybü'l-Hayr (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The most beautiful color you use to change the color of your hair and beard is undoubtedly the black one. (Because black dye) makes your women more desirable to you (than other dyes) and strikes more majesty - fear for you into the hearts of your enemies.)
3757-) - “. According to what is reported from Said bin Abi Said (from Medina), Ubay bin Jurayc (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) (again from Medina) said to Ibn-i Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): vers (that is, the victory of Yemen) I see you painted yellow with Ibn Umar replied, "As for my dyeing it yellow, the reason is this: I definitely saw that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) dyed his beard yellow." "
3758-) - “. From Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) passed by a man who had dyed his white hair and beard with henna and said: How beautiful it is). Then he passed another man, who had dyed his hair and beard with henna and ketem (the plant called), and said: It is more beautiful than that (that is, the one I just saw). Then he passed another man who had dyed his hair and beard yellow, and said: He is more beautiful than all of them (that is, the two I have seen before).
3759-) - “. From Abu Juhayfa (radiyallahu anh); He said: I saw Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). That (beard) part of him had turned white. I mean his phoenix (his lower lip or between here and lower jaw turned white)."
3760-) - “. From Humayd (radiyallahu anh); He said: to bin Malik; Did the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) dye his (hair and beard)? he was asked. Anas replied: "He did not see the graying of the beard other than seventeen or twenty hairs on the front of his beard."
3761-) - “. From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: "The number of hairs that turned white (on his head and beard) was about twenty."
3762-) - “. From Umm Hani' (radiyallahu anha) (daughter of Abu Talib); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered Mecca with four gadirs. Umm Hani refers to braids (with gadira)."
3763-) - “. From Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said: Kitab (i.e., Christians and Jews) used to let their hair (freckles) over their foreheads. The polytheists would also part their hair (in the middle) into two (that is, let it fall from both sides of their foreheads). Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) also liked to be in conformity with the People of the Book (unless he was commanded with anything positive or negative). Ibn 'Abbas said: That's why the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) loosened his forelock on his forehead. After a while, he parted his hair (from the middle of his head to the forelock) and let it go down (on the left and right of his forehead).
3764-) - “. From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: "When I combed the hair of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) I used to divide his hair into two parts from the middle of his head and let it loose on the right and left sides, then I would leave the rivet on his forehead (or I would let the rivet down on the right and left side of his forehead)."
3765-) - “. According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): The hair of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was rajil (neither straight nor curly, slightly curled), and it was (long) between his ears and shoulders.”
3766-) - “. From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: "The (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) had hair that did not reach his shoulders and passed the softness of his ears."
3767-) - “. From Vâil bin Hucr (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw me with my long hair and said: It is bad luck) (or it is always light, it is always light). So I immediately went and got my hair (cut). Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw me and said: (with my word) I did not mean you. However, this (cutting hair) is better).
3768-) - “. According to what was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anhuma), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade accident. Râvî (Omar bin Nafi): what is it? he asked (Nâfi'e). Râvî (Nâfi) replied: It is to shave the hair of one part of the child's head and leave the hair of another place."
3769-) - “. From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade qada (the so-called haircut). "
3770-) - “. According to what was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anhu): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) bought a silver ring and gave it to him; = He had the sentence "Muhammad's Messenger of Allah" embroidered. Then he said: No one should embroider (imitate) this ring of mine (as long as I am alive) on his own ring."
3771-) - “. From Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had a ring made (of silver). Then he said: We had a ring made and an embroidery (that is, the inscription of Muhammad's Messenger of Allah) on it. Do not let anyone embroider (imitate) his embroidery on their own ring.)
3772-) - “. According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) acquired a silver ring. The ring had an abyssinian eyebrow. The embroidery of the ring was the inscription "Muhammad's Messenger."
3773-) - “. According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade the use of gold rings (men).
3774-) - “. According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anhuma): (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) forbade gold rings (men). "
3775-) - “. From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), mother of believers; He said: He gave the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) a ring with a golden ring with Abyssinian eyebrows as a gift. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took that gold ring with a stick or some of his fingers. But she didn't compliment him. Then he called Umama bint-i Abi'l-As, the daughter of the girl's (that is, Zaynab) and said (to him: adorn my daughter with this).
3776-) - “. According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to put the eyebrow of his ring on the inside of his palm.”
3777-) - “. According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used a silver ring with an Abyssinian eyebrow inside. He was putting the brow of the ring in the palm of his hand."
3778-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abdullah bin Ja'far (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to wear the ring on his right hand (the smallest of his fingers).
3779-) - “. According to what is reported from Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade me from wearing the ring on this or that finger. The narrator said: "Ali meant his little finger and thumb."
3780-) - “. According to what was narrated from Abu Talha (Zayd bin Sahl al-Ansari) (radiyallahu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Angels (mercy) in the house where there is a dog and (ya) image (i.e. a picture of a living thing). (i) does not.) "
3781-) - “. According to what is narrated from Ali bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Mercy) angels do not enter a house in which there is a dog and (ya) image.)
3782-) - “. From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (Alayhis Salam) had agreed with him that he would come to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) for a (determined) time, but he made the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wait for a long time (he did not come at that time). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went out (out of the house). Suddenly he met Gabriel, who was standing. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked (to Gabriel): What is preventing you from entering (the house)? Gabriel (alaihis-salâm): Surely there is a dog. However, he said, "We certainly do not enter a house in which there is neither a dog nor a figure. "
3783-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Umama (radiyallahu anh): woman. She came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and told her that her husband was in some wars and asked for permission to paint a date tree in her house. He forbade or forbade her."
3785-) - “. According to what is reported from Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade the gold ring and the misere (saddle and palanquin mat), that is, the red micere.”
3786-) - “. From Abu Reyhane (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Companion of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to prevent tigers from riding (by pulling their skins on their mounts or on their saddles or saddles).”
3787-) - “From Muawiya (bin Abu Sufyan) (radiyallahu anhuma): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to prevent tigers from riding (by pulling their skin on saddles and saddles, or by throwing them on the backs of riding animals).”
3788-) - “. According to what is reported from (Hıdaş) bin Salamat as-Sülemî (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I advise a man to respect his mother's rights. I advise (every) man to respect his mother's rights. I advise (every) man to respect his mother (he repeated the sentence of recommendation three times). I advise (every) man to obey his father. I advise (every) man to obey his guardian (who takes care of his business), even if he is persecuted by his guardian.)
3789-) - “. From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): He said: The Companions: Rasûlallah! “Who should I be nice to?” they asked. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Anna). Companion: Then who? she asked. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (again) said: Questioner: to whom? said. The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: Questioner: to whom? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ; to your nearest relative and then to the closest ones in turn)."
3790-) - "According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A child cannot do anything equal to his father's kindness. Only when he found his father as a slave and bought him and (thus) was set free (he would have done a favor equal to that of his father)."
3791-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) is twelve thousand okkas. Every arrow is better than all the things between the heavens and the earth. )?) he asks. It is said to him: It is because of your child's forgiveness for you. "
3792-) - “. According to what is reported from Mikdam bin Ma'dikerib (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He seriously advises you to treat your mothers (behave well with them and obey their rights) (He repeated this sentence three times). Allah seriously advises you to behave well with your fathers and to abide by their rights. Allah seriously advises you to behave well with your closest relatives, then to your other relatives according to their degree of closeness and to abide by their laws.) " ... Abu Umama (radiyallahu anh) reported that a man said: Rasûlallah! What is the father and mother's right over their child? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (that is, your father and mother are your Paradise and Hell). "
3794-) - “. According to what is reported from Abu'd-Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the following command from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): The best of the gates of Paradise is (a means of entering). Now either lose that door (by neglecting the father's right) or protect that door (trying to get it) (by respecting its right)"
3795-) - “. From Abu Usayd Malik bin Rebia (radiyallahu anh); He said: While we were with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), a man from Bani Selime came to him and asked: Is there anything left for me to do after their death, out of the duties that I am obliged to Rasûlallah, my father and my mother? she asked. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Asking for mercy, asking forgiveness for them, fulfilling their promises (wills) after their death, honoring their friends, taking care of relatives whose closeness is only through them, and doing one's duty towards them. to do), he commanded."
3796-) - “. According to what was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): Once, a few men from the Bedouins came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and asked: Do you kiss (love) your children? they said. The Companions (at the assembly) said: Thereupon, the Bedouins said: By God, we cannot kiss and caress (our children). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to the Bedouins): “After I have removed mercy and compassion from you (your hearts), I am not able (and able) to put mercy in your hearts.”
3797-) - “. From Ya'la bin Murre (radiyallahu anh); He said: His sons Hasan and Husayn came running to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) embraced them and said: “It is a kind of reason for stinginess and cowardice.”
3798-) - “. According to what is reported from Suraka bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Listen. Let me show you the most virtuous charity: your daughter who has been returned to you (for reasons such as divorce, the death of her husband) and who has no other employee (i.e., no one to provide her maintenance) other than you.)
3799-) - “. From Sa'saa (bin Muaviye) (radiyallahu anhuma), uncle of al-Ahnef (bin Kays); He said: The woman, with her two daughters (one day), went to Aisha (radiyallahu anha) (to ask for help). Aisha gave him three dried dates. Thereupon, the woman gave one date to each child and divided the remaining third date to her two children (and she did not eat the date herself). Aisha said: Then the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came. So I told him (the situation). Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): What (for) is your astonishment? (And indeed) the woman will (will be) entered Paradise because of that mercy.) "
3800-) - “. From Ukbe bin Amir (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): If he has three daughters and he is patient with it (that is, he does not complain that his children are girls), he makes them eat, drink and clothe them, those girls will go to hell fire for him on the Day of Judgment. They become a curtain (obstacle)"
3801-) - “. According to what is narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If two girls stay with them after they reach the age of puberty or as long as that person stays with them, if they treat them well and give them favors, their daughters will include them in Paradise (that is, thanks to the kindness they have done to their daughters), they will be treated well. It is possible).) "
3802-) - “. According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Give the necessary treats and treat them well.)
3803-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Shurayh al-Huzâî (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should do good to his neighbor, and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should honor his guest, and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should either speak good or keep quiet. .) "
3804-) - “. According to what is narrated from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He always advised me to be neighbors (to abide by his rights) so much that I thought that he would make the neighbor (by an order from Allah) heir.)
3805-) - “. According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He advised me to follow the neighbor (follow his rights) so constantly that I thought he would make the neighbor (the neighbor by Allah's command) heir. .) "
3807-) - “. From Ukbe bin Amir (radiyallahu anh); He said: To the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): (O Messenger of Allah!) You are sending us (to the embassy as a delegation or to war as a military detachment). We (sometimes) become guests of a tribe - we stay but they do not welcome us. What would you say about this? we said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to us: If you go down to a people and they show you the hospitality worthy of the guest, accept it. If they do not do (the required hospitality), take from them the right that is worthy of the guests.)
3808-) - “According to what is reported from Mıkdâm Abu Karîma (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is wâjib (for every Muslim) at night. In this respect, if the guest descends around someone's house, the right to be a guest is a debt on the host. Now, if the guest wishes, he wants his right and if he wishes, he can leave his right.)
3809-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (You bear witness) I seriously forbid (people) from wasting the rights of these two weak people, I forbid them: orphans and women.)
3810-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The best of the houses in his community is the house in which an orphan is treated well, and the worst of the houses in the Muslim community is the house in which an orphan is abused.)
3811-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "If he takes care of the maintenance and upbringing of three orphans, he will be like a person who spends his nights with worship and fasts during the day, and who makes jihad in the way of Allah morning and evening, drawing his sword, and I and those two brothers (finger fingers) will be like the one who fights." We will be brothers in Paradise like the )) and he glued his index finger and middle finger together."
3812-) - “. From Abu Barze al-Aslemi (radiyallahu anh); He said: I said, O Messenger of Allah, show me a job that will benefit me (that is, it will be a means of gaining rewards). He said: Remove the harmful thing from your path.) "
3813-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There was a tree branch on it that harmed the people. A man took that branch away from the path and was therefore included in heaven.)"
3814-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: They were presented to me with their good and bad deeds. I saw a tormenting thing that was driven away from the path in its good deeds. I saw the sputum that was not buried in his bad deeds but was in the mosque.)
3815-) - “. From Sa'd bin Ubade (radiyallahu anh); He said: O Messenger of Allah! Which type of charity is more virtuous (that is, it has more rewards)? said. He said: (that is, to give water to a living thing or a plant),)."
3816-) - “. According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "People will divide into ranks on the day (Ibn Numayr said in his own narration: The people of Paradise will divide into ranks"). Meanwhile, one of the people in Hell (heaven) passes by the man and says to him: Do you remember the day when you asked me for drinking water (while in this world) and I made you drink water? (Thus, he asks for his intercession). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A man intercedes for that person. Another man (who is still in Hell) passes by (a person who is in Paradise) and says (to him): Don't you remember the day when I gave you water for wudu? says. He also intercedes for that man.) Ibn Numayr said (in other words, in his narration, there is more of this): "And (one of those who are in Hell to one of those who are in Paradise): O so-and-so! He does not remember the day when you sent me to such and such a job and I went for you. He says, "Are you in Paradise?" (Heaven) will intercede for him."
3817-) - “. From Suraka bin Cu'sum (radiyallahu anh); He said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) if there was a reward for me if I watered the lost camel that came to my ponds, which I repaired and plastered for my own camels. He said: "There is a reward for every passionate liver owner (giving water)."
3818-) - “. According to what is narrated from Cerîr bin Abdillah al-Beceli (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If he is deprived of dealing with kindness, he will be deprived of goodness."
3819-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: No doubt, he is a refîq (that is, he favors his servants and bestows ease, he does not burden them with duties beyond their power), he likes his servants (too) to treat them softly, and he does not give (success and reward) by acting softly. He gives (to his servant) "
3820-) - “. According to what is narrated from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Certainly, he is a refîq (that is, he wishes ease for his servants, does not ask for difficulties, does not burden them with tasks that are not sufficient for them), and he likes that his servants (also) treat them gently in all matters.)
3821-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Dharr (i- Gifârî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: That is, slaves and concubines) are your brothers. Allah has put them under your hands (that is, your savings). Now feed them from what you eat, clothe them from what you wear, and do not offer them things that are beyond their power. If you burden them (within their power), help them personally or (with others)."
3822-) - “. According to what is reported from Abu Bakr-i Siddiq (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Anyone who treats the slaves under him badly will not enter Paradise.” Companions: Messenger of Allah! Didn't you tell us that this Ummah (that is, your Ummah) is the community with the most Mamluks (that is, slaves and concubines) and orphans? they said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: From now on, treat them as you value your children and feed them from the food you eat). Companions; What benefit does the mamluk (that is, slave-concubine) provide us in the world? they said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): You fight in the way of Allah on a horse that you feed. Your mamluk (also) will meet your needs. When he prays, he is your brother now). "
3823-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "I swear by (Allah) in whose hand is (my dear) power, you will not enter Paradise unless you believe. Unless you love one another, you will not have (complete) faith. Shall I show you something; Do you love each other when you do it? Spread the greeting among yourselves (i.e., greet every Muslim, whether familiar or not). He commanded us to greet.” '... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Worship (Allah) and reveal the greeting (i.e. spread the greeting by openly greeting to every Muslim, whether you know him or not).
3826-) - “. According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): The man (who is Hallad bin Rafi) entered the Masjid an-Nabawiyya. At that time, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sitting on one side of the mosque. After the man prayed, he came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and greeted him. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) also said, “Wa aleykes salam = Peace be upon you.” According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to her: Aisha! He replied: 'Ve 'alaihis-salâmu wa rahmatullahi = Peace and Allah's mercy be upon him'.
3828-) - “. According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When one of the (non-Muslims) who have the Book greets you, answer "wa alaikum = also to you." How many men came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said, “As-Sâm aleyke = death to you, O Ebel-Qasim! they said. Thereupon, he replied: (And alaikum = you too)."
3830-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Abdirrahman al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Tomorrow I will get on and go to the Jews. Do not greet them. When they greet you, answer "wa alaikum".)
3831-) - “. It is narrated from Anas (bin Malik) (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: When we were children (one day), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to us and greeted us.”
3833-) - “. From Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: O Messenger of Allah! Can some of us bow (that is, bow his head and waist) for some of us (out of respect)? we said. He replied: We: Can some of us cuddle with some of us? we asked. He said: (No, but shake hands)."
3834-) - “. According to what is reported from Barâ bin Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There are no two Muslims who meet and shake hands so that their sins are not forgiven before they separate. ) "
3837-) - “. From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh) asked for permission three times to enter (his house) next to (caliph) Umar (radiyallahu anh), and he was not allowed. He's back too. Then Omar (radiyallahu anh), why did you come back? He sent word to him (and asked him to come. Upon this) Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh) ; I asked for permission by asking permission three times, as the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered us. Then he said, 'If we are allowed, we will enter, and if we are not allowed, we will return.' Abu Said said: Thereupon, Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) said (to Abu Musa): Either you will bring me a witness for the proof of this hadith or I will do what I will do to you. Thereupon, Abu Musa went to the assembly of his people (that is, where the Ansâr-i Kiram was located) and asked them to testify to the substantiation of this hadith. They (some of them) also testified for him, but (caliph) Umar released him."
3838-) - “. From Abu Ayyub al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh): He said: We said: O Messenger of Allah! This is salam (known). What is istisan? we asked. He said: The man who wants to enter his house (voicely) utters rosary, takbir and praise, coughs, clears his throat and announces to the people of the house (that he wants to enter.) " ... From Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: : There were two entry times (given) for me by the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (to enter him): One entry time was at night and one was during the day. he would cough and clear his throat (it would be like)."
3840-) - “. From Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: I asked permission (by knocking on the door) to enter the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) because of a debt. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: he? I said: Ene (= Mine). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (should have disliked my answer like this) said: ene = mine.”
3841-) - “. From Jabir (radiyallahu anh); He said: (Tonight) how did you wake up? “O Messenger of Allah,” I asked him about his condition. He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I woke up with goodness (tonight) as a man who could not fast and visit any sick person.”
3842-) - “. According to what is reported from Abu Usayd es-Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (Once upon a time, his uncle) Abbas bin Abdulmuttalib, while entering his house, said to Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): (As'Salamu Aleykum). They also greeted him by saying: aleyke's Salamu wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuhu (= Salam, Allah's mercy and blessings to you too). (Then) the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked about their condition, saying, “You woke up in the morning (that is, how are you?)”. They also: (So we are fine). We thank God. May our father and mother be sacrificed for you. I woke up with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (i.e. I am well). I praise Allah,) said.
3843-) - “. According to what was reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When an elder of a tribe comes, serve him.”
3845-) - “. As reported by Salama bin al-Ekva' (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "It is extended to a Muslim who sneezes once (up to one, two or three times)" (prays with goodness and blessings). ). The person who sneezes more has caught the flu (that is, it is not introduced to him).
3846-) - “. Ali (bin Ebî Talib) (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When he sneezes, let him say “Al-Hamdu lillah = Praise be to Allah” and those around him said, “Yerhamukallah = Allah. may they have mercy on you”. Let him greet those around him with the prayer: "Yehdikumullahu wa yuslihu balekum = May Allah guide you and make your condition well."
3849-) - “. According to what is reported from Cevzan (al-Kûfi) (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If he asks his brother to accept an excuse (religion) but his brother does not accept that excuse, he will bear a burden equal to the sin of the maks owner. It happens.) ... In the same deed, Muhammad bin Ismail also narrated to us the like of it from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) through Cevzan."
3851-) - “... Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) reportedly said: One year before the death of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) once went to Busra for the purpose of trade. Nuayman and Harmala's son Suveybit (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) were with him. These two persons had participated in the Battle of Badr. Nuayman (on the journey) would supervise the food business. He was also a very funny man. (At a while during the journey) He said to Nuayman: Give food. Nuayman (on the other hand) said, 'Wait until Abu Bakr comes. Upon this, Suwaybit said: Surely, I will anger you. The narrator said: They passed by a people. Suwaybid said to that people: Will you buy a slave from me? said. And they said: Yes. Suwaybit (this time to them): (the slave I will sell to you) is a talkative slave and will say to you: I am a free person. When he told you so, he said, "If you are going to leave him, do not make my slave mischief against me." They said: On the contrary, we will buy it from you (we don't care about the slave's words like this), and they bought Nuayman with ten healthy camels from Suveybit. Then they came to Nuayman and put a bandage or rope around his neck. Nuayman said: This man (that is, Suveybit) is seriously mocking you and I am definitely free and not a slave. But they took him away, saying: Your master (Suwaybid) has informed us of your situation (that is, that he will be talkative and deny your slavery). Then Abu Bakr came. Those present told him the situation. The narrator said: Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) went after the men, returned their camels to them, and brought Nuayman. The narrator said: When Abu Bakr and his companions (returning from their journey) came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and presented (this situation) to him, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) laughed, and his Companions (for a year) They talked among themselves and laughed." ..... From Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would join us (and joke with us with a smiling face). Even to a younger brother (whose bird died); (O Abu Umayr, Nügayr (bird) would say what happened (joking).)
3853-) - “... From Amr bin Shuayb's grandfather (Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhum); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbids plucking the graying hair from the beard and said: (He is the light of the believer). "
3854-) - “... According to what is reported from Burayda (bin al-Husayb) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to sit between the shade and the sun (that is, one part of the body is in the shade and the other part in the sun). banned. "
3855-) - “... From Kays bin Tıhfe el-Gıfârî's father (Tıhfe) (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) found me lying face down in the Masjid (i Nebevi) and poked me with his foot and He said: What is the matter that you are sleeping like this? This is a calm that Allah dislikes or hates (dislikes). ) "
3856-) - “...From Abu Dharr(-i Gıfârî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: While I was lying face down, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) passed by me and poked me with his foot: Cündübcik! Surely, this is the sleep of the people of the fire (that is, Hell)," he said. "
3857-) - “... from Abu Umama (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) passed by a man who was sleeping on his face in the Masjid (Nabawi) and poked him with his foot: sit down. Because it's a hell of a relief. ) commanded. "
3858-) - “... According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, “If he gets knowledge from the stars, he gets a branch from magic (knowledge). As the stars increase their knowledge, magic increases their knowledge.)
3859-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Do not insult (do not blame). Because it is from the mercy of Allah (his servants). It brings mercy and suffering. But ask Allah for the good of the wind and seek refuge in Allah from its evil. ) "
3860-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Abdullah and Abdurrahman are the most beloved names in the eyes of Azze and Jalla.)
3862-) - “... from Samura (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade us to call our slaves (these) four names, Eflah, Nafi. Rebah and Yesar. "
3863-) - “... from Mesrûk (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I met Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh): What is your name? she asked. I said: 'Masrûk bin al-Ecda'. Upon this (Hazrat-i) Omar; I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he said: (Al-Ecda' is the name of a devil) "
3864-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh): his name was Berre. It was said to him by the name of this woman. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) named her Zaynab. "
3865-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (bin al-Khattab) (radiy-Allâhu anh) had a daughter named Asiye. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave her the name Jamila. "
3866-) - “... From Abdullah bin Salam (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) when my name was not Abdullah bin Salam. Then (when I converted to Islam) Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) named me Abdullah bin Salam. "
3868-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Name yourself with my name. But don't be called by my last name.)
3869-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was in Bakî. (There) a man called a man Ya Ebe'l-Qasim. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) turned and looked at the caller (thinking that his Prophets were summoned). The man said: I did not mean your Self (I called this man). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Name yourself with my name. But don't take my last name. ) "
3870-) - “... According to what is reported from Hamza bin Suhayb (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), once Omar (radiy-Allâhu anh) asked Suhayb: Why do you tag Abu Yahya = Yahya's father (with his surname) when you do not have a son? ? said. Suhayb said: Yahya's tag was given to me by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). "
3871-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), you gave tags to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): to all his wives. "You didn't just give it to me," he said. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to him): Then you are Umm Abdillah- (that is, let your kunyan be Umm Abdillah). "
3872-) - “... from Enes (radiyallahu anh); He said (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) would come to us (that is, our house) and say to one of my brothers: Ebâ Umayr. ) commanded. My brother was a small child. "
3873-) - “... From Abu Jabire bin ed-Dahhak (radiyallahu anh); He said: "And do not call each other by bad nicknames" verse was revealed about us Ansar community. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) honored us (that is, from Mecca to Medina-i Münevvere). The man who was one of us at that time had two or three names. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) would sometimes call the men by one of these names: Rasûlallah! It was said that he gets angry at being (called by) this name. Upon this! The verse "And do not call each other by bad nicknames" was revealed. "
3874-) - “... From Al-Miqdâd bin Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered us to scatter soil on the faces of the lied-officers. "
3875-) - “... From Muawiyah (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: I heard the following command from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Avoid praising (indulgently). Because this is strangling (that is, killing the one who is praised in a way). ) "
3876-) - “... From Abu Bakr (Nufey' bin al-Haris) (radiyallahu anh); He said: The man praised another man (extremely) in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said (to the praiser): Woe to you! You cut (killed) your friend's neck. He repeated this command over and over. Then he said: If he (religion) praises his brother, let him say: I think he is (so good) and I cannot purify anyone against Allah. "
3877-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A person (that is, who is consulted about a matter) is a person who can be trusted. ) " '.... Abu Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh) reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The person who is consulted is someone who can be trusted. ) " '..... Jabir (radiyallahu anh) reported that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he consults his (religion) brother, let the person being consulted express his opinion (which he deems useful). ) "
3880-) - “... According to what Abdullah bin Amr (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) has narrated, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: His hometown will be conquered for you and you will find houses called hamams there. Men should not enter the baths without a loincloth, and women are prohibited from entering them. Unless you are sick or puerperant. ) " " According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prohibited men and women from baths. Then he allowed men to enter there in loincloths (covering between the navel and kneecap) and did not allow women. "
3882-) - “... from Abul Melih al-Huzeli (radiyallahu anh); He said: A few women from the people of Homs asked for permission to enter Aisha (radiyallahu anha). Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) (to them) after she was allowed to enter the room: You are one of the women who enter the baths. I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and he said: If a woman leaves her clothes (undresses) in a house other than her husband's house, that woman will have torn the curtain between her and Allah. ) "
3883-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): When (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wanted to be plastered with Turkish bath herb (to remove the hairs on his body), starting from the private part of his body, he would plaster the area with Turkish bath grass. The other part of his body was smeared by his wife. "
3884-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was plastered with Turkish bath herb (to remove hair on his body) and plastered his groin with his own hands. "
3886-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: In the time of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), neither in the time of Abu Bakr nor in the time of Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) storytelling was not possible. "
3887-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubay bin Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Some of it is truly wisdom (correct word - advice and an exemplary painting). "
3889-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The most correct words of the (group) were Labid bin Rabia; = "Be aware that everything other than Allah is false (ephemeral)". Umayya bin Abi's-Salt (in his poems) also came close to becoming a Muslim. "From Amr bin al-Sharid's father (ash-Sharid bin Suveyd es-Sakafi) (radiyallahu anhuma): I read a hundred rhymes (couples) from the poem of Umayya bin Abi's-Sakafi to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Between each rhyme (couplet): (Continue), he used to say, and (later: he was close to becoming a Muslim), he said.
3891-) - “... According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is better for a man to eat it when it is filled with pus and finally to rot - than to be filled with poetry. )
3892-) - “... According to what is reported from Sa'd bin Abi Vakkas (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "It is better for one of you to be filled with pus and eventually rot, than to be filled with poetry."
3893-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The greatest slanderer is human; A man who satirizes a man (with his poetry) and satirizes the whole tribe (with his poetry) in this context, and a man who accuses his mother of adultery, claiming that he is not from his father. ) "
3894-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he plays with dice, he will certainly be disobeying Allah and His Messenger. ) "
3895-) - “... According to what is reported from Sulayman bin Burayda's father (Burayda) (radiyallahu anh): The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: it's like sunk. ) "
3896-) - “... According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), she (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) looked at a person watching (playing with) a bird and said ((This guy) is a devil following a devil, ). "
3897-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw a man going behind a dove (playing with it) and said: (This guy) is a devil following a devil.) he commanded. "
3898-) - “... According to what is reported from Osman bin Affan (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw a man chasing a pigeon and said: “The man is a devil following a devil.” "
3899-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw a man walking behind a pigeon (playing with it) and: the man) is a devil following a devil. ) commanded. "
3900-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If everyone knew about the drawbacks of traveling alone, no one would travel alone at night. ) "
3901-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Do not leave fire in your houses at any time. ) "
3902-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh): A house in (-i Münevvere) burned down on the heads of its inhabitants at night. Then their situation was explained to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). On top of that: fire is surely your enemy. Therefore, turn it off when you want to sleep.) "
3903-) - “... from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered us (some things) and forbade (some things). At this time (when we wanted to sleep) he ordered us to turn off our lamp,
3904-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Do not stay on the road and do not meet your needs on it (i.e. do not break wudu). ) "
3905-) - “... From Abdullah bin Cafer (bin Abi Talib) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: When he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came from a journey, we were being taken to meet him. (Once) me and Hasan or Hussein were taken to meet (him). Abdullah bin Cafer said: He took one of us in front of him and the other one behind him, and finally we reached Medina. "
3906-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Sprinkle soil on your pages. This is the most efficient method for pages (not to scatter the ink). Because the land is blessed.)
3907-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When you are three (together) (two of them (the third) should not talk in secret from their friends (that is, they should not talk). Because the secret talk of the two of them will undoubtedly upset the third friend.)'
3908-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade two people (who are together) to talk in secret, apart from the third (friends). "
3909-) - “... According to what is narrated from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): The man passed through the Masjid (i Nabavi) with arrows (with exposed spines) at his side. (The man was distributing arrows as alms). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said (to the man): Hold it (so that it does not touch anyone). The man said: "
3910-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When he passes our mosque or our market with an arrow with him, he should hold it by his hand so that it does not touch any Muslim (let it pass by) or put his hand on it.”
3911-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The one who is skilful in the Quran (a believer) is with the angels who are obedient and respected to Allah. There are two rewards for a (Muslim) who recites with difficulty in reading and repeating verses and words (that is, not being fluffy in his reading). ) "
3912-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When he enters Paradise, it will be said to the people (that is, to read Him constantly and act with Him): Read and rise (to the ranks of Paradise). Thereupon, he will begin to recite and will rise one degree for each verse until he finishes what he knows from the Qur'an.)
3913-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Burayda's father (Burayda) (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: ) comes in the form of a discolored man and will say (to his reader): I am the one who made you sleepless at night and thirsty during the day. ) "
3914-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he returns to his family members, does he like to find three large and fat pregnant camels with them? ) commanded. We: We said yes. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Then three verses recited by one of you in his prayer are better for him than three large and fat pregnant camels." "
3915-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The situation of the Qur’an is similar to that of a tethered camel. If the camel owner keeps his camel by tying it up, he keeps it, and if he releases his ties, the camel goes. ) "
3916-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: (Azza wa Jalla) said: I have divided the salat (i.e. Surah Fatiha) into two between myself and my servant, and I give my servant whatever he wants. ) Abu Huraira said: Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Read: The servant; . . . . . . . He says, "Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the worlds." Thereupon, Allah (Azza wa Jalla) said: He praised me and I will give my servant whatever he wants. Then the servant says: = "The Most Merciful and Merciful (Allah)". Thereupon, Allah says: He has praised me, I will give my servant whatever he wishes. Kul (hereinafter) . . . . . . Din-calcsab says (Allah), who is the owner of the day of punishment. Thereupon, Allah sanctified me. This (that is, the part of Fatiha up to this point) belongs to bahd (praise, praise and ta'zim). Half of this verse is for me and half for my servant: My servant, he says, We serve only you and we seek help from you alone. So this is between me and my servant. I give my servant whatever he wishes. The end (that is, the next part) of Surah Fatiha is also the wishes of my servant. The servant says: Guide to the straight path, to the path of those whom you have blessed (prophets, truthful, martyrs and righteous) besides those who have incurred your wrath (Jews) and those who have gone astray (Christians). These verses (the wish) belong to my servant and I give my servant whatever he wishes. "
3917-) - “... From Abu Said bin al-Mualla (radiyallahu anh); He said: One day, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) addressed me: "Before I leave the Masjid (al-Nabawi), I will definitely teach you the greatest sura in the Qur'an (in terms of rewards) (that is, which surah is the greatest surah) Abu Said bin al-Mualla said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) went to get out (from the Masjid). So I reminded him (his word). He also said: Surah); dir (that is, it is the Fatiha period). That surah is as-Sabu'l-Masânî (named), and it is the Qur'an-i Azîm given to me. ) "
3918-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A surah has thirty verses and its owner (i.e. the reader) will intercede for it until it is forgiven: (That surah); . . . . . . . . (i.e. Surah Mulk). ) "
3919-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Surah Ikhlas is equivalent to one-third of the Qur’an in terms of rewards. -"
3920-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Surah Ikhlas is equivalent to one-third of the Qur’an in terms of rewards. ) "
3921-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Surah Ikhlas is equivalent to one-third of the Qur’an in terms of rewards. ) "
3922-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu'd-Darda (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to the Companions): The best of your deeds, the most admired in the sight of your owner (Allah), the one who raises your rank the most (in Paradise), the one who is more rewarding for you than giving gold and silver (in the way of Allah), and whoever encounters your enemy and cuts their necks Shall I not inform you of something more virtuous than your enemy's beating your necks (to be martyred) by hitting you (being a veteran)? (or you know that I will inform you), he said. Companions: What is deed? They said, "O Messenger of Allah. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (that is, to remember Allah). And (according to the narration from Ziyâd bin Ebî Ziyâd) Muâz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: A man. He has never done any deed (worship) that saves him from the punishment of Allah (Azza wa Jalla) more than the remembrance of Allah (worship). "
3923-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira and Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anhuma), these two persons testified that the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: Angels surround every (Muslim) community that remembers him, mercy covers them, calmness (the pleasure of Allah, dignity and calmness) descends on them gradually, and Allah speaks of them (with praise) among the (angels) in His presence. ) "
3924-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (Azza wa Jalla) says: I am with him when he remembers me and his lips tremble with my remembrance. ) "
3925-) - “... From Abdullah bin Büsr (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); A Bedouin said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): Islamic shari'ahs (i.e. supererogatory worships) really came to me (i.e. I cannot do all of them due to my weakness). That's why he said, "Let me know about something that I will cling to from them (advise me). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (to him): Let your tongue be constantly busy with the remembrance of Allah (Azza wa Jalla). "
3926-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra and Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): two persons witnessed that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said the following hadith (i.e. from Him in person). Allah (Azza wa Jalla) said the truth. and I am the most exalted, he says. When he said he is alone, he is one, God spoke the truth. There is no god but Me, I am alone, one, he says. Ash; When he said, "La ilaha illallahu la sharia lahu = There is no god but Allah, he has no partner," Allah said the truth. There is no god but me and I have no partner, he says. Ash; When he said, "La ilaha illallahu lahu'l-mulku wa lahu'l-hamdu = There is no god but Allah. His dominion is His, and His praise is", Allah said: My servant has spoken the truth. There is no god but me. Ownership (dominance) is mine, praise is mine, he says. Ash; When he said, "La ilaha illallahu wa la havle wa la strengthei illa billahi = There is no god but Allah, and recovery from sins, strength in worship is only with the help of Allah", Allah = was right. He says, "There is no god but me, the strength to turn from sins and worship is only with my help." ) Abu Ishaq said: Then (my sheikh) al-Agarr said something that I did not understand. Then I asked Abu Ja'far: What did he (i.e. al-Agarr) say? I asked. Abu Jafar said: (what you do not understand is the following sentence of the hadith): Whoever is given dhikr on his deathbed, fire will not touch him (that is, the fire of hell will not burn him). ) "
3927-) - “... from Su'da al-Murriyya (radiyallahu anha); He said: (radiyallahu anh) one day after the death of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) (my husband) visited Talha (bin Ubeydullah) (radiyallahu anh) and said (seeing him sad): are you sad? Did it upset you that your uncle's son (Abu Bakr as-Siddik) became caliph? said. Talha: No. However, I said from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that I know a word very well that if a person utters that word on his deathbed, that word will certainly become a light on that person's page (i.e., the book of deeds) and surely that person's corpse and I heard with my ear the command that his soul will find an unbelievable blessing (that is, mercy, contentment and comfort) thanks to that word, on his deathbed, but I did not ask him what that word was until he passed away (that is why I am sad), he said. (On this) Omar (radiyallahu anh): I know that word. It is the word (tawhid) that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) offered to his uncle (that is, to Abu Talib on his deathbed). He said, "If the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) knew something more saving than the word tawhid for his uncle (Abu Talib), he would have ordered that thing."
3928-) - “... According to what is reported from Muâz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There is no one who testifies that there is no god but Allah and that I am the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and dies confirming this in his heart, but Allah does not forgive him. forgive me))"
3929-) - "... According to what is reported from Ummu Hani' (radiyallahu anha): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "Ilaha illallah" is not used by any deed (virtue) and this word does not sin. won't let go.)
3930-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “One hundred times in one day, “La ilaha illallahu, vahdehu la şerike lehu, lehu'l-mulku wa lehu'l-hamdu wa huwa ala kulli shey'in power = other than Allah If he says, "There is no god, He is alone (i.e. He is one), He has no partner, He has the property (sovereignty) and His is His praise, He has power over all things", this dhikr is equivalent to the reward of freeing ten slaves, and a hundred good deeds are written for him, and a hundred sins are added to it. deleted from it. This dhikr will be a guarantee for that person from the evil of Satan until the evening. No one can bring a more virtuous dhikr than this dhikr he utters. However, the person who recites this dhikr more than ten gains more virtue. ) "
3931-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Right after the morning prayer, “La ilaha illallahu, vahdehu la şerike lehu, lahu’l-mulkü wa lehü’l-hamdu, bi Yedihi’l-hayr, ve huve alâ kulli shey” almighty = There is no god but Allah, He is alone (only) and has no partner, His is the dominion and His is the praise, the good is by His hand and He has power over all things. ) It is like freeing a slave who is one of the sons of Ishmael. ) "
3932-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The most virtuous (that is, the remembrance of Allah) is the word "La ilaha illallah = there is no god but Allah" and the most virtuous prayer is "Al-hamdu lillah = Praise Allah". name" (or "Al-hamdu lillah" surah, that is, the time of Fatiha). ) "
3933-) - “... According to what is reported from Kudame bin Ibrahim al-Cumahi (radiyallahu anh): When he was a young man, Abdullah bin Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anhu) had a dress consisting of two pieces painted with safflower. would go to him. Kudame said: Abdullah bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) narrated a hadith to us one day and said that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) commanded them: azîmi sultanike = O my Lord, praise be to you in a way that is worthy of your majesty and the majesty of your dominion. This praise left the two angels in charge of writing down the servant's deeds, and they did not know how to write it. Thereupon, the angels went up to the sky and said: O our Lord, Your servant has said such a word (hamd) that we will not know how to write it. Although Allah (Azza wa Jalla) knows best what his servant said: What did my servant say? she asked. The angels said: O our Lord, that servant said: "O Lord Leke'l-hamdu kema yenbagi li celali vechike ve azîmi sultanike". Thereupon, Allah (Azza wa Jalla) said to those two angels: Write down that word as my servant said, until you meet me and I reward him for the word (hamd) he said. ) "
3934-) - “... From Abdulcebbâr bin Vali's father (Vâil bin Hucr) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); He said: I prayed together (behind him) with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). A man (in prayer) said, "Al-hamdu lillahi hamden katiran tayyiben blessed en fihi = Very beautiful and blessed praise be to Allah." Then, when the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) finished the prayer, he asked: Who is it? The man said: I did not mean anything but no. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Certainly, the gates of the sky were opened for praise, and nothing prevented it from ascending to the Throne. ) "
3935-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: When he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) saw something he liked, he would say (Al-hamdu lillahi'l-lezi bini'metihi tetimmu's-sâlihât = Praise be to Allah that useful things are completed only by His blessings) and something he dislikes. When he saw something, he would say (Alhamdu lillahi ala kulli halin = Praise be to Allah in every situation).
3936-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) used to say: lillahi ala kulli state. Rabbi Euzu bike min hali ahli'n-nari = Praise be to Allah in every situation. My God! I seek refuge in you from the state of the people of hell. ) "
3937-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He bestowed a favor on any of his servants and said, "Al-hamdu lillah = Praise be to Allah. If the servant says, "The praise that the servant gives (that is, the praise he pays) will definitely be superior to the (blessing) he receives." ) "
3938-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: and bi hamdih, Subhanallahi'l Azim = I praise Allah and thank Him for all His blessings. I believe and confess that he is pure and decent from all kinds of deficiencies, I praise Allah, the Mighty; dhikr are two words (easy) on the tongue, heavy on the scales of deeds in the Hereafter, and lovely to the Most Merciful (Allah). ) "
3939-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): Once, while he was busy planting a sapling, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed by and said to him: Abu Hurayra! What is it you sew?) he asked. (Abu Hurayra said) I (also) said: I am planting a sapling for it. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) said: Should I not show you a better sapling to be planted? Abu Huraira (also) said: O Messenger of Allah. (Thereupon) Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: wa’l-hamdu lillahi wa la ilaha illallahu wallahu akbar = Allah is beyond all faults, all praise is to Allah, there is no god but Allah, and Allah is the Greatest) also. If you say that, a tree will be planted for you in Paradise for every word. "
3940-) - “... According to what is reported from Juwayriya (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), (one of the Prophet's wives), when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted to perform the morning prayer while he was busy with the dhikr of Allah, or He stopped by her after performing the morning prayer. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) returned to her when the sun had risen (or the narrator said, the day had passed). Juwayriye was still in that state (preoccupied with dhikr). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said (to him):) I have said four words (sentence) three times since I left you. However, those words (in terms of rewards) are dhikr more, heavier (or weighing more) than what you say (for this process): "Subhanallahi my people. Subhanallahi rida nafsihi. Subhanallahi arshin of zinete. Subhanallahi midade kelimâtihi Allah's number of creatures" Glory be to Allah. I praise Allah to the extent that He is pleased with Him. I glorify Allah with the weight of His Throne. I praise Allah as much as the number of His words. ) "
3941-) - "... According to what is reported from Numan bin Bashir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The words "Subhanallah, la ilaha illallah wa al-hamdulillah" undoubtedly express the majesty of Allah. It is one of your dhikrs that express it. These (that is, these three types of dhikr) circle around the Throne, have a hum like the hum of a swarm of honey bees, reminiscent of their owner (that is, the one who makes this dhikr). Would not one of you like to have (or to be permanent) someone who will resemble him (around the Throne)?)"
3942-) - “... from Umm Hani (radiyallahu anha); He said: I went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah, show me a (supererogatory) deed (advise me). Because I'm really old, weak in strength, and getting fat, I said. Thereupon, he said: Say "Allahu Akbar" a hundred times, "Alhamdu lillah" a hundred times, and "Subhanallah" a hundred times. (In terms of rewards, this dhikr is better than a hundred horses, (sacrificed) a hundred camels, and a hundred slaves (freed) if they are restrained (for war) in the way of Allah.)
3943-) - “... According to what is reported from Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There is a sentence that is the most virtuous of words (as dhikr). It doesn't hurt which of these four sentences you start with: "Subhanallahi wal-hamdu lillahi wa la ilaha illallahu vellahu akbar = praise be to Allah, all praise is to Allah, there is no god but Allah, and Allah is the greatest."
3944-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he says "Subhanallahi wa bi hamdihi = glorify Allah and praise Him" a hundred times (a day), that person's sins will be forgiven even if they are as much as the foam of the sea. ) "
3945-) - “... from Abu'd-Darda (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to me: "You say, "Subhanallahi wal-hamdu lillahi wa la ilaha illallahu vellahu akbar = I glorify Allah, all praise is to Allah, Allah There is no god but Allah, and Allah is the Greatest." Keep chanting, Because just as a tree drops its leaves, these (minor) sins also reduce (remove) sins.)
3946-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: We believe that Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (Rabb-i-ghfir li wa tubaleyya, inneke ente’t-Tawâbu’r-Râhîm = O my Lord! Forgive me and accept my repentance, because Tawâb (Tawba) That is, the one who accepts repentance a lot), you are the Rahim (that is, the one who shows mercy to believers), you are the number of times that he repeats his forgiveness a hundred times in one session. "According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He said: I ask Allah's forgiveness seventy times a day and ask Him to accept my repentance.)
3949-) - “... from Huzeyfe (radiyallahu anh); He said: There was bitterness and intemperance in my language towards my family members. But he was not against others. Then one day I told this situation to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, they said: What is your situation in the center? You ask for forgiveness seventy times a day (for the forgiveness of this mistake). )
3950-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Büsr (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Every kind of happiness is worthy of a person who finds forgiveness in his book of deeds. ) "
3951-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he continues to ask for forgiveness, Allah will grant him a way out of every sorrow and a way out of every trouble, and will provide for him (with halal and good sustenance) from where he did not expect. ) "
3952-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray: Make me one of those people so that when they do good deeds with sincerity, they are given glad tidings (with the reward of this) and they ask for forgiveness when they commit a mistake. ) "
3953-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Dharr(-i Gıfari) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The Blessed and Exalted says: Whoever does good (worship, good) will have ten times the reward of what he has done for that person, and I will increase (the reward of the one I wish even more). Whoever does evil, the punishment for an evil is the same as that evil or I will forgive him. Whoever comes close to me an inch, I come close to him, and whoever comes close to me, I will come close to him, one fathom. Whoever comes to me walking, I reach him running. Whoever comes before me with almost a lot of mistakes without making anything in common with me, I will meet him with that much forgiveness. ) "
3954-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Subhanahu says: I am with my (believer) servant's opinion about me, and when my servant remembers me, I am definitely with him. Now, if my servant remembers me in secret, I will remember him in secret. If he remembers me in a community, I will remember him in a better community than that community. If my servant approaches me an inch, I will approach him by a cubit. If he comes to me walking, I will reach him running. ) ..... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Every (good) deed of his son will be multiplied for him (in terms of reward): Every good deed (worship, charity) is increased from ten to seven hundred times (in terms of rewards). Allah Subhanahu said: But fasting (reward) is not like this (that is, its reward is much higher) because fasting is definitely for me and I will reward it.
3956-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh), he said: "When I was saying Lahavle wa la force illâ billah", the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) heard my voice and said ( to me): Abdullah bin Qays! Should I not show you a word (sentence) from the treasures of Paradise?) I (also) said: Let me know, O Messenger of Allah. He said: "Say (La hawle wa la power, illā billahi). ) "
3957-) - “... From Abu Dharr(-i Gıfârî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to me: “Shall I not show you one of the treasures of Paradise (should I know)?” Me too) . I said, O Messenger of Allah. He: treasury) said, "La hawle wa la force illa billah". "
3958-) - “... From Hazim bin Harmale (radiyallahu anh); He said: One day, I stopped by the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Thereupon, he said to me: Say the dhikr "La hawle wa la force illa billahi" a lot. Because this sentence is undoubtedly one of the treasures of Paradise. ) "
3959-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If Allah does not pray to Subhanahu (he does not make a request), Allah will be angry with that person.)"
3960-) - “. According to what is narrated from Nu'man bin Bashir (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Only supplication is worship.” Later; Your Lord said: You pray to me (ask me) so that I will answer you (accept your prayer). Those who do not deign to pray to Me (arrogant) will certainly go to Hell in humiliation) (Mu'min, 60)."
3961-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Nothing is more virtuous in the sight of Allah Subhanahu than prayer and verbal worship.”
3962-) - “. According to what is narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to say in his prayer: Help me and do not help me (my enemy). Do not withhold your help from me and do not support (my enemy) against me. Punish my enemy, don't punish me. Guide me to good works and make it easy for me to follow the path of good. Help me against the one who oppresses and wrongs me. O Lord! Make me grateful to you, remember me a lot, fear you a lot, obey you a lot, bow down to you a lot, repent by crying out to you a lot. O Lord! Accept my repentance, remove my sins, accept my prayers, keep my heart on guidance, keep my tongue from speaking the truth with truth, make my proof (that is, my silencing and defeating evidence against your enemies) firm and purify my heart from evil.) al-Tanafisi said: Me, Vekî'e: Can I recite this prayer in the qunut of the witr prayer? I said. He: Yes, he said."
3963-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The daughter of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) Fatima (radiy-Allâhu anha) came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and asked him for a servant. 'alaihi wa sallam) said, 'There is no (servant) I can give you.) Fatima also turned and left. After a while, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went to Fatima and said: “Is a servant you want more beloved to you, or is something better (more beloved) than him?” Ali (radiyallahu anh) said to Fatima: : No. On the contrary, the thing that is better than it (it is more beloved to me). Then Fatimah said (what Ali said). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to Fatima: "O Allah! O Lord of the seven heavens, Lord of the Mighty Throne, our Lord and Lord of everything, O the One who sent down the Torah, the Gospel and the Qur'an (Allah)! You are (the eternal being with no beginning in your existence), there is nothing before you. You are the Hereafter (the eternal being with no end to its existence), there is nothing after you. You are the Zahir (whose existence is evident with evidence), there is nothing more obvious than your existence. You are the inner (the essence of which cannot be comprehended, whose essence is hidden for people), there is nothing more hidden than you (the essence of it). Pay our debt (don't leave us in debt) and get us rich (voluntarily) by getting us out of poverty (need or greed). ) "
3964-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray: innî es'eluke'l-Hüda vet'tuka wal-İfâfe ve'l-ğinâ = My God! I ask you for guidance, piety, chastity, and wealth. "
3965-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray and said: infa'nî bima allemteni ve allimni ma yenfaunî ve zidni ilmen ve'l hamd û lillahi ala kulli halin wa aüzû billahi min azâ-bi'n-Nâr = My God! Make me benefit from the knowledge you have taught me, bestow upon me the knowledge that I will benefit from, and increase my knowledge. Praise be to Allah in all circumstances. I seek refuge in Allah from the torment of the fire.)
3966-) - “. From Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to say the prayer (Allahumma sebbit heart ala dinika = O Allah! Make my heart firm on religion (Islam)) a lot. Thereupon, a man (one day) said: Messenger of Allah! Do you fear for our (end) even though we believe in you and approve of you (the Qur'an and Islam) that you have brought? said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Certainly, the Most Merciful (Allah) (Azza wa Jalla) is between two fingers, he can rotate it (as he wishes)."
3967-) - “. According to what is reported from Abu Bakr-i Siddik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Rasûlullah! "Teach me a prayer that I will say at the end of my prayer," he begged. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (de) : innî zalemtü nafsi zulmen kesîren ve la yagfir al-zunube illâ ente fegfir li forgiving min indike verhamnî. Inneke en-te'l-Gafuru'r-Rahim = My God! Undoubtedly, I have wronged myself a lot. No one but you can forgive sins. Therefore, forgive me and have mercy on me with forgiveness from Yourself. Surely, you are the forgiving (forgiving) and the merciful (merciful), recite the prayer."
3968-) - “. From Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiyallahu anh); He said: On the day, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came out leaning on a walking stick and came to us. When we saw him, we stood up. Thereupon, he said: Do not do as his people (Iranians) did against their greats.) We: Messenger of Allah! We ask you to pray to Allah for us, we said. Oda prayed: Forgive us, have mercy on us, be pleased with us, accept (worship and prayers) from us, include us in Paradise, save us from the fire and improve our situation for us. Umama said: It seems to me that we eagerly desired him to pray for us more. For this reason, he said: Didn't I collect your work for you (that is, I made a comprehensive prayer that includes all the necessary wishes for your happiness)?"
3969-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to pray: I seek refuge in you from four things: knowledge that does not provide (legitimate) benefits to its owner, does not fear (Allah) - from the heart that does not obey, from the soul that is not satisfied (passionate) and from the unheard (that is, not accepted) from prayer.) "
3970-) - “. According to what is narrated from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to pray with the following sentences: I seek refuge in you from the affliction of the fire of hell, the affliction of the fire of hell, the affliction of the grave, the affliction of the grave, the evil of the affliction of wealth, the affliction of poverty, and the evil of the affliction of the Dajjal-i Messiah. my god! Wash off my sins with snow and hail water (i.e., purify me with the kinds of forgiveness) and purify my heart from faults like a white garment from dirt. Keep the distance between me and my faults as you have distanced the distance between the east and the west. my god! I seek refuge in You from laziness, old age, sin and debt.)
3971-) - “. According to what is narrated from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to pray as follows: I seek refuge in you from the evil of what I have done (deeds that need forgiveness) and from what I have not done (to commit an act contrary to your consent in the future)."
3972-) - “. From Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to teach us this prayer as he taught us the surah from the Qur'an: I seek refuge in you from the torment of Hell. I take refuge in you from the torment of the grave and I seek refuge in you from the temptation of the Dajjal. I seek refuge in you from the fitna of life and death,)
3973-) - “. From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: I could not find the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in his bed one night. So I sought Him, and my hand touched the underside of His feet. He was in prostration, with both feet planted, and he was praying: I seek refuge in your pleasure from your displeasure and in your forgiveness from your torment. I seek refuge in You (in tazibir). I can't afford to praise you (deservingly). You have the lofty qualities and superior perfections that you praise yourself.)
3974-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Seek refuge in Allah from poverty, lack of good deeds, humiliation, oppression and being oppressed."
3975-) - “. According to what is narrated from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Seek useful knowledge and seek refuge in Allah from knowledge that will not benefit (its owner).
3976-) - “. From Umar (bin el-Khattab) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) seek refuge in Allah from cowardice, stinginess, the most disgraceful period of life (dementia of old age) and the fitna of the heart.)
3977-) - “. According to what is reported from Tariq (bin Esyem) (radiyallahu anh), a man came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlallah! When he said, "How should I say it when I want to make a request from my Lord," Tariq witnessed that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (to the man): "My God! Forgive me, have mercy on me, make me safe (from the troubles and troubles of the world and the hereafter) and provide me with (from halal) food. four sentences) gathers for you your religion and your world (that is, it includes the happiness of two lives), he said. ) "
3978-) - “. According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) taught him the following prayer: No doubt, I ask you for all kinds of good, the urgent and the non-urgent, the good that I know and the good that I do not know. I seek refuge in You from all the evil that is urgent and non-urgent, that I know or that I do not know. my god! Surely, I want from you, too, from the good that your (dear) servant and Prophet asked of you, and I also seek refuge in you from the evil that your (dear) servant and prophet took refuge in you. my god! Surely, I ask you for Paradise and words and deeds (to be successful) that will bring (me) closer to Paradise. I seek refuge in You from the fire of Hell and from the word or deed that brings (me) closer to it. I ask You to make every accident (and destiny) decree that you have decreed for me auspicious. ) "
3979-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked a man: What do you say (that is, when you sit down)?). Man: I am reciting tashahhud (i.e. at-Tahiyyatu, Allahumma salli...). Then I ask Allah for Paradise and seek refuge in Him from the fire of Hell. But he said, "By Allah, I don't know what you are reading or what Muaz is reading." The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to the man): We say words around him (that is, close to what you read).
3980-) - “. According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlullah! He asked which prayer is the best (that is, the best prayer?). The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to the man): Wish for good health and well-being in this world and in the hereafter. Then the man came (to him) on the second day and said: Messenger of Allah! Which dua is virtuous? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Seek health and well-being in this world and in the hereafter. ) commanded. Then the man came to Him (again) on the third day and said: Nabiyyallah! Which dua is virtuous? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Wish good health and well-being in this world and in the hereafter. When you are given good health and well-being in this world and in the hereafter, you will certainly have achieved your wish," he said.
3981-) - “. According to what is reported from Evsat bin Ismâîl al-Beceli (radiy-Allâhu anh): When he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) died, he was a witness to the following hadith of Abu Bakr: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was in my place for two days stood up (After Abu Bakr said this, he wept). Then (continuing the hadith narration) he said: And behold) do not deviate from the truth. Because truthfulness is certainly with good (that is, it leads its owner to good deeds.. Truthfulness and goodness (the owner) are in Paradise. Beware of lying, too. Because lying is definitely with evil (that is, it leads its owner to evil) and with lying, evil (its owner) is in Hell. ask for forgiveness (that is, to be safe and sound from things that are disliked). Be the servants of Allah, be brothers.)
3982-) - “. According to what is reported from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she is the Messenger of Allah! He demanded that if I come across the night of power, let me know what to pray for. The Messenger of God said (to him): Surely, you are a pointer, you like to point out, you say point out to me.)
3983-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "O Allah! I ask you for well-being in this world and the next."
3984-) - “. According to what is narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) prayed and said: May he have mercy on us and Ad's brother.)
3985-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “His prayer will be accepted unless one of you rushes.” How does the person hurry up? When he was asked, "O Messenger of Allah," he replied, "The man said: I prayed to Allah, but Allah did not accept my prayer."
3986-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Let any of you not pray, "O Allah! Forgive me if you wish," and use a precise expression in his wishes (that is, say "O Allah, forgive me"). Indeed, there is no force (no force) compelling Allah.)
3987-) - “. According to what is reported from Asma bint-i Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “His name, A’zam, is in these two verses: “Your god is the only god (who has no partner in His essence and attributes). There is no God but Him. He is the Most Merciful. 'Stop." (Baqara, 163) (2) The verse at the beginning of the chapter of Âl-i İmrân; "Alif, Lam. Mim. Allah, there is no god but Him, He is the eternally alive, He is the One who directs and watches over all beings."
3988-) - “. From al-Qasim (bin Abdirrahman) (radiyallahu anh); He said: That Ism-i A'zam, who accepts the prayer when called with it, is in three surahs: Bakara, Âl-i İmran and Taha."
3989-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh) through al-Qasim, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered the like of it.”
3990-) - “. From Burayda (bin al-Husayb) (radiyallahu anh); He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said of a man (who is Abu Musa al-Ash'ari) "My God! I am unique in your personality, attributes and actions, without a like or partner, independent of everything and all beings are in need of, I ask you (no) by confessing that you are God who does not give birth, does not give birth, and nothing is equal to Him," he heard your voice while praying. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I swear by Allah in Whose Hands He has it.” Surely, this man asked Allah with his Ism-i Azam, he is Ism-i A'zam, which is from Allah with him. He gives (a good) when asked and accepts the prayer when called with it.)
3991-) - “. According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): A man (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Allah! Hearing his voice while he was praying, "I definitely ask for good from you by confessing that he is the creator of the earth and the earth, and that he is the owner of majesty, domination and endless bounty." He asked for (no) with his time, that Name A'zam, with whom he gives when asked (a good) from Allah, and when he is called with him, he accepts the supplication.)
3992-) - “. From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (O Allah! I certainly ask you (no) with your pure, beautiful, blessed name and the most beloved name to you, that name that you respond to when you are with it, and you (no) with it. I heard your voice when I prayed that you give it when it is asked for it, you show mercy when it is asked for mercy from you, and when you ask for help with it in order to get rid of it, you will get rid of it. He said: And the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said one day: 'Aisha, do you know that she showed me by what name Allah will accept the prayer when she is called?). Aisha said: O Messenger of Allah! I said, "May my father and mother be sacrificed for you, teach me that Name." He said: Aisha. Learning that name is not suitable for you.) Aisha said: So I went away and sat for an hour. Then I got up and kissed His (blessed) head. Then: Messenger of Allah! “Teach me that name,” I begged. Him: Aisha! It is not appropriate for me to teach you that name. Because of course, it would not be appropriate for you to want something worldly with that name.) Aisha said: Then I got up and performed ablution and after praying two rak'ahs: Surely, I call you Allah, I call you er-Rahman, I call you al-Barr, er-Rahim, and I call you Esma I know and I do not know. I prayed and made a wish, saying, "I call with all of Husna so that you can forgive me and have mercy on me." Aisha said: Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) laughed. Then he said: That name is among the names you mention in your prayer.)
3993-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Allah has ninety-nine (i.e.) a hundred minus one name. Whoever (completely) counts these names will enter Paradise.)
3994-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There are ninety-nine (i.e.) one hundred less names of Allah. Surely, Allah is unique (in His essence and attributes), He loves the unique (i.e., non-double dhikrs, worships). Whoever memorizes and memorizes those ninety-nine names will enter Paradise. Those names (these are): al-Vâhid, es-Samed, al-Evvel, al-Âhir, al-Zâhir, al-Bâtın, al-Hâlık, al-Bârî', al-Mûsâvvir, al-Malik, al-Hakk , as-Salam, al-Mu'min, al-Muhaymin, al-Aziz, al-Cebbār, al-Mutakabbir, er-Rahman, er-Rahim, al-Latif, al-Habir, es-Semi, al-Basir , al-Alîm, al-Azîm, al-Barr, al-Mutaal, al-Jalil, al-Jamil, al-Hayy, al-Qayyum, al-Kadir, al-Kahir, al-Ali, al-Hakim, al- Karib, al-Mujib, al-Ghani, al-Wahhab, al-Wedud, al-Shakur, al-Macid, al-Wacid, al-Vali, er-Râsid, al-Afuw, al-Ghafur, al-Halim, al-Karim, et-Tawâb, er-Babb, al-Macîd, al-Veliyy, al-Shahid, al-Mubin, al-Burhan, er-Reuf, er-Rahim, al-Mubdi', al-Muid, al -Bais, al-Vâris, al-Kaviyy, al-Şedîd, ed-Dârr, an-Nâfi', al-Bakî, al-Vâki, al-Hafid, er-Rafi', al-Kabid, al-Basit, al -Muizz, al-Muzill, al-Muksit, er-Rezzak, Zü'l-Kuvve, al-Metin, al-Kaim, ed-Dâim, al-Hafiz, al-Vakil, al-Fâtar, es-Sami', al- Mu'ti, al-Muhyi, al-Mumit, al-Mani, al-Cami', al-Hādi, al-Kāfi, al-Ebed, al-Alim, es-Sadik, an-Nur, al-Munir, et- Tamm, al-Kadim , al-Vitr, al-Ahed, es-Samed. He is such a God that he did not give birth, was not begotten, and no one was his equal. He said: As it has been reached to me by many scholars, the first dhikr of Esma-i Husna begins with this dhikr (that is, the following dhikr is recited first, and then the recital of Esma-i Husna is started): Ilahe illallahu vahdehu la şerike lehu. Lehü'l-mulkü ve lehü'l-hamdu, biyedihi'l-hayru ve huve alâ kulli sey'in power. La ilaha illallah. Lehü'l-Esmâü'l-Husnâ = There is no god but Allah. He is one (in His essence and attributes) and has no partners. The dominion (sovereignty) is His, and the praise is His. No, it is only in His (power) hand and He has power over all things. There is no god but Allah. To Him belongs the Esmâ-i Husnâ (= the most beautiful names).
3995-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Supplications (types) are accepted, and there is no doubt that they will not be accepted: the supplication of the oppressed, the supplication of the guest, and the supplication of the father for his child."
3996-) - “. From Umm Hakîm bint-i Vedda al-Huzâiyye (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): his prayer reaches the level of acceptance.)
3997-) - “. According to what is reported from Abu Naâme (radiyallahu anh): bin Mugaffel (radiyallahu anh) said that his son said: My God! When I entered Paradise, he heard him praying that I would like a white mansion on the right side of Paradise. Thereupon: my son, ask Allah for Paradise and seek refuge in Him from the fire of Hell (do not overdo it). Because I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), he said: There will be a people who violate the limits.)
3998-) - “. According to what is reported from Salman (-i Fârisi) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Your Lord is shy (that is, he gives to his servant who makes a request), he is generous, he is ashamed of raising his servant's hands to Him and turning them empty (or he said) to be bewildered (that is, his hands are empty). does not translate)) "
3999-) - “. According to what is narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When you pray, pray with the insides of your hands open to Him, and do not pray by raising the reverse side of your hands in the air. Then when you finish your prayer, rub your hands on your face.)
4000-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Ayyas ez-Zuraki (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "La ilaha illallahu vahdehu la sharia lah. Lahul-mulku wa lahu'l-hamdu wa huwa ala kulli shey Power = There is no god but Allah. He is alone, alone, and has no partners. The dominion belongs to Him. All praise belongs to Him and He has power over everything." If he says, this (dhikr) will be as much (reward) as freeing a rakabe (slave or concubine) from Ismail (Aleyhisselam)'s son. That person's ten mistakes (minor sins) are erased, he is promoted 10 degrees (that is, his position in heaven is raised 10 degrees), and that person will be protected from the devil until the evening. When he recites this dhikr in the evening, he gains the same as the things mentioned until the morning of the next day. Abu Ayyash narrates such and such a hadith from you (what do you say to this), he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of God said: Abu Ayyash told the truth."
4001-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: When you reach it: "Allahumma bike asbahna wa bike emseyna wa bike nahya ve bike nemutu = Our God, we only reached the morning with your (protection or blessings). Say, "We reached (yesterday's) evening (or we can reach the evening today) but with your (your permission) we live and with your (your permission) we die." And when you reach the evening: "Allahümme bike emseynâ ve bike asbahnâ ve bike nahya ve bike nemutu ve ilayke'l masîr = our God! We reached the evening only with you (your protection or blessings) and only with your (protection or blessings) we reached the morning (or We can reach tomorrow morning. We live only with you (your permission) and we die only with your (your permission). Say, "The return is only to you.) "
4002-) - “. According to what is reported from Osman bin Affan (radiyallahu anh), he said from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): "Bismillahi'l-lezi la yedurru maasmihi shey'un fi'l-Ardı wa la fi's- Semai ve huve's-Semiu'l-Alîm = (I am protected) by the name of Allah (from everything that hurts). He is the Hearer, the Knower." He heard the command that there is no (believer) servant who recites the dhikr three times and harms him in any way.
4003-) - “. According to what is reported from Abu Sallam (radiy-Allâhu anh), the servant of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "When it reaches and when it reaches the morning, "Raditu billahi Rabben wa bi'l-Islamic religion ve bi'l-Islamic religion ve bi Muhammad's prophet = I chose Allah as my Lord, I chose Islam as my religion and a prophet There is no Muslim, human or servant who says, "I have chosen Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) as the Prophet, but on the Day of Judgment it is not a right on Allah to please (and please) that person (that is, Allah has promised to please him by giving him abundant rewards). .) "
4004-) - “. From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to say, when it reached the evening and when it reached the morning, he would not stop praying (reciting) the following prayers: I ask you for forgiveness (removing sins) and well-being (safety from sickness, troubles, etc.) in this world and in the hereafter. my god! I ask you for my religion, my world, my family members and my property (your rights) well and well-being. my god! Cover my faults, make me safe from fears, and protect me from before me, behind me, on my right, on my left, and above me. I seek refuge in you from being protected from under me.) Waki said that (with protection from the bottom) means sinking to the ground." He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he recites this prayer in the day and night and then dies that day or that night, God willing. that person will enter Paradise.)"
4006-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray as follows: Lord of the heavens and the earth, the Lord of all things, the God who splits the grain and the date seed and sprouts, and sent down the Torah, the Bible and the Qur’an. I seek refuge in You from the evil of all living things that walk in the land under Your Sovereignty. You are the pre-eternal (that is, the eternal being without a beginning of existence), there is nothing before you. You are the Hereafter (that is, the eternal being without an end to its existence), and there is nothing after you. You are the Zahir (that is, the existence of which is evident with evidence), there is nothing more obvious than your existence. You are the esoteric (that is, the nature of which is not known to man and its essence is hidden), there is nothing more hidden than you (the nature of it). Pay my debt (that is, do not leave me in debt) and save me from poverty (that is, from need or passion) and (voluntarily) enrich me) "
4007-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When someone wants to sleep in his bed, he should take off the inner hem of his izar (that is, the garment below the waist) and shake the bed with it. Because the man who will go to bed does not know what went to bed for him (since yesterday) after him. After (having thoroughly cleaned the bed) let him lie on his right side. Then let him pray: O my Lord! I put my side on the ground with you (name) (or asking for your help). I will also remove it with you (name) (or asking for your help). (O Lord!) If you take my soul, have mercy on it (i.e. forgive my sin). If you are going to keep me alive, protect my soul with the protection that you protect your righteous (obedient) servants.)
4008-) - “. According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ): When she (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) lay on her bed, she would blow into her hands, recite the surahs of muavvizeteyn (i.e. Kul euzu bi Rabbi'l-Falak and Kul eûzu bi Rabbin-Nâsi) and rub her hands on her body. . "
4009-) - “. According to what is narrated from Al-Bara bin Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) told a man: When you settle down or reach your bed: “Allahumma eslemtu vechi ileyke wa elce’tu zahri ileyke ve favvadtu order. -lezî enzelte ve Nebiyyike'l-lezi erselte = O Allah! I can only seek refuge in you (i.e. your mercy), there is no other way of salvation. I believe in the Book you sent down and the prophet you sent." also. If you die that night after (you say so), you will die on fitra (i.e. the religion of Islam). If you reach the morning, you will reach the morning with a lot of goodness.)
4010-) - “. According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiy-Allâhu anh): When he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) got into his bed, he kept his hand (that is, his right hand) under his cheek. Then: Kini azâbeke yevme teb'asu (ev tecmau) ibâdeke = My God! He used to say the prayer "Save me from your torment on the day when you will resurrect (or gather) your servants."
4011-) - “. According to what is reported from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: He wakes up at night (or wakes up by turning from one side to the other side) and when he wakes up, he says: "La ilaha illallahu vahdehû la şerike leh. Lehü'l-Mülkü wa lahu'l hamdu wa huve ala Subhanallahi ve'l-hamdu lillahi wa la ilaha illallahu vallahu akbar wa la hawla wa la power illa billahi'l Aliyyi'l-Azim = There is no god but Allah, He is (in His Self, Attributes and Actions) He is alone, alone, has no partner. The dominion belongs to Him, the praise belongs to Him and He has power over all things. There is no god, Allah is greater than everything. The power to turn away from sins and fulfill the duty of servitude is only with Allah, the High and Mighty." If he says and then prays, "Rabbighfir li = O my Lord, forgive me", his sins will be forgiven.) Ravi al-Walid: Or he said (instead of this last sentence): "If he prays then, his prayer will be accepted." (The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) later said: (If a man gets up after (reciting the prayers above) and performs ablution and then prays, his prayer will be accepted.)
4012-) - “. According to what is reported from Rebia bin Malik (bin Kal) al-Aslami (radiyallahu anh): They spent nights near the door of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) spent a long time at night (Subhanallahi Rabbilalam = of the worlds). He heard the dhikr (Subhanallahi wa bi hamdihi = I glorify Allah by praising Him) (for a long time) and then (for a long time) dhikr.
4013-) - “. According to what is reported from Huzayfa (bin al-Yemân) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): When he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) woke up at night, he said: (Al-hamdu lillahi'l-lezi ahyana ba'de ma ematenâ ve Ileyhi'nnüşr = After killing us ( Praise be to Allah, who revives us (that is, gives us back our movement and strength by waking us up from sleep) after we make him immobile and powerless with sleep, and to be resurrected after death (thus) belongs to Him (thus).
4014-) - “. According to what is reported from Muâz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "There is no Muslim who goes to bed at night, then wakes up at night (or wakes up by turning from one side to the other while asleep) and who asks Allah for something (good) from the affairs of the world or the hereafter. ) there is no servant that Allah will not give him what he wants.) (That is, he will definitely give)."
4015-) - “. From Esma bint-i Umeys (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) taught me the words to say in times of sadness: Allahu, Allahu Rabbi La usriku bihi aheda = Allah, Allah is my Lord, do not associate anything with Him!
4016-) - “. According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), when he was in distress, he would chant the following dhikr: Ilaha illallahul-Halimü'l-Karim. Subhanallahi Rabbil-Arshil-Azim. Subhanallahi Rabbi's-samawati's-seb'i ye Rabbil-Arshil-kerim = There is no god but Allah, the Halim, the Karim. I glorify Allah, the Lord of the mighty Throne. I glorify Allah, the Lord of the seven heavens and the Lord of the beautiful Throne.) Veki said the word "La ilaha illallah" once in all of this dhikr."
4017-) - “. According to what is narrated from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha); When the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) left his house: inni euzu bike en fairle ev ezille ev azlime ev uzlame ev echile ev yuchele aleyye — My God! I would definitely seek refuge in You from going astray, from slipping, from oppressing (anyone), from being persecuted (by anyone), from acting ignorantly and from being treated ignorantly against me (by someone else).
4018-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) left his house (Bismillahi), la hawla wa la quwwa illā billah. Et-Tüklânu alallah = I seek help from the name of Allah. Turning from sins and being able to serve as a servant is only with the help of Allah. To endure is to Allah.) he would say the prayer."
4019-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he leaves the door of his house (or the door of his building), two assigned angels are with him. In this respect, when the man says "Bismillah = in the name of Allah", those two angels say to him: You have led him to the right path. Then, when the man says, "La hawla wa la power illa billah = Turning from sins and power to serve as a servant, only with the help of Allah" the angels say to him: You are protected. When the man says, "Tawakkeltu alallah = I relied on Allah", the angels say to him: Your job has been done. (The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continues to say: Then his two wives (i.e. two devils, human and jinn, who want to lead him into sin) come across him. Angels (to those devils): What do you want from a man who is guided, whose work is seen and protected (by Allah)? they say, (i.e. you cannot mislead it))"
4020-) - “. According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he heard the following order from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): When Satan remembers Allah when he enters his own house and eats his (evening) meal, Satan says to his (his assistants): ( There is neither a place to stay nor a dinner for you in this house. When the man enters (his house) and does not remember Allah when he enters, the devil says (to his assistants): You have reached the place where you will spend the night. Then, when the man (evening) eats and does not remember Allah, the devil says to his (helpers): You have reached the place where you will spend the night and your dinner.)
4021-) - “. According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Sercis (radiy-Allâhu anh): When (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) set out on a journey, he said: (Allahumme inni euzu bike min va'sai's-seferi ve keabati'l-munkalabi ve'l-havri ba'de'l -kevri ve da'veti'l-mazlûmi ve sui'l-manzari fil ehli ve'l-mali = O Allah! I seek refuge in you from the evil eye (by malicious people) (the narrator Abdurrahim, in his own narration, said "he used to take refuge in Allah" instead of the sentence "He used to worry"). Abu Muawiya added: "The Prophet used to recite this prayer when he returned from his journey."
4022-) - “. According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), when she saw a cloud coming from any of the horizons, she would have quit her job, even if she had prayed to meet it and recite the following prayer. Then: înna naûzu bike min şerri mâ ürsile bihi = Our God! He would say, "We take refuge in You from the evil of what is sent with this cloud (rain, hail, etc."). Then, if it rained, he would say two or three times: (O Allah! Make this rain a beneficial rain that flows on the earth). If Allah (Azza wa Jalla) had not cleared the air and made it rain, he would have praised Allah for this."
4023-) - “. According to what was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw rain, he would say: Make this rain a flowing, beneficial and harmless rain on earth.
4024-) - “. According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), when she saw a cloud that was thought to be raining (fearing that a disaster might strike her ummah), her face would change from color to color, she would enter and exit (the house) and stand against the cloud and return. When it rained from the cloud, his sadness was relieved. The narrator said: Then Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) told him some of what she saw (this state and anxiety) from him. Thereupon, the Messenger of God said to Aisha: You know? Maybe it is something like the people of Hud (assuming that it is a piece of cloud) (which is reported to be torment in the verse). When they saw the torment as a widespread cloud coming towards their valley (they were in), they said: "This is a widespread cloud that brings us rain. (Hud said:) On the contrary, this is the punishment you want hastily." )" Surah Ahkaaf 24.
4025-) - “. According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He suddenly comes across a person who has been in trouble and said: “Al-hamdu lillahillezi âfânî mimmebtalâke bihi wa faddalani ala kathirin mimmen halaka.” Praise be to Allah, who truly excels," that person will be safe from him (for the rest of his life), no matter what the calamity is. ) "
4026-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The beautiful dream seen by a person (that is, a Muslim who is fond of his worship and avoids haram) is a part of the forty-six parts of prophethood. ) "
4027-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: His dream is one of the forty-six parts of prophethood.)
4028-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The dream of a Muslim man (who is fond of his worship and avoids harams) is a part of seventy parts of prophethood.)
4029-) - “... Umm Kurz al-Ka'biyya (radiyallahu anha) reported that she said: I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): he left (that is, no prophet will be sent after him) ) and mubeşşirat (that is, beautiful dreams for the believer) remained. ) "
4030-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The (good) dream is a part of the seventy parts of prophecy. ) "
4031-) - “... from Ubade bin es-Sâmit (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I told the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) that Allah Subhanahu = (The good news is to them (the parents of Allah) both in the life of this world and in the hereafter.) I asked what is meant. They said: (that is, Büşra in the verse) is a beautiful dream, a Muslim person sees it or it is seen for him (by another Muslim). ) "
4032-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) opened the sitâre (that is, the curtain of the door of his house) during his (final) illness. The ranks of the congregation (in Masjid an-Nabawi) were (standing) behind Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said (to them): people! Of the signs of prophecy, only the beautiful dream remained. A Muslim person sees that dream or it is seen for him (by someone else)," he said. "
4033-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he sees me in his dream, that person sees me while he is awake (it is like his dream is true). Because the devil cannot enter an image like me. ) "
4034-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he sees me in his dream, that person has really seen me. Because the devil certainly can't take a shape like me.)"
4035-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he sees me in his sleep, that person has definitely seen me. Indeed, it is not possible for Satan to take on a form similar to my image.)
4036-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he sees me in his dream, that person has really seen me. Because the devil certainly cannot enter a form like me. ) "
4037-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Juhayfa (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he sees me in his dream, it is as if he saw me while awake (that is, his dream is real). For surely, Satan is not able to take my form (he is not able to do so). "
4038-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he sees me in a dream, that person has definitely seen me. Because the devil cannot take my form. ) "
4039-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There are three types: A good news (that is, a pleasing dream) by Allah (inculcated in a believer's heart through an angel) in relation to something that a person cares about while awake and is busy with his heart. to be frightened by the dream one sees and by the devil (who is put into the heart while asleep). In this respect, when one of you sees a pleasing dream, let him tell it if he wishes, and if he sees a dream that he does not like, he should not tell it to anyone and get up and pray (to banish the devil).
4040-) - “... According to what is reported from Avf bin Malik (al-Ashcai) (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: There are three types of dreams: are the fears (introduced into the heart) by A part of dreams is what a person desires and perseveres while awake, and then sees in his sleep. Some of the dreams are dreams, which is a part of the forty-six parts of prophethood). Muslim bin Mishkem said: I asked Awf bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): Did you (personally) hear the hadith from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)? said. Awf bin Malik (radiyallahu anh): I heard this from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). He said, "I heard this from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). "
4041-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he sees a dream that he does not like (when he wakes up), he should spit on his left side three times (with a light breath) and seek refuge in Allah from Satan three times (that is, say Auzu billahi mine'ş-shaytani). and turn from the side it is on to the other side. ) "
4042-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A dream is from Allah. Hulm (ie, disliked dream) is from the devil. Therefore, if one of you sees something in his dream that he does not like, he should spit three times (with a light breath) on his left side, seek refuge in Allah from the devil three times (that is, say Euzu billahi mine'ş-shaytani'r-recim) and say that he is turn side to side. (Thereby making that dream harmless). ) "
4043-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he sees a dream that he does not like (when he wakes up), he should immediately turn to the other side and spit on his left side three times (with a light breath). Let him ask Allah for the good of that dream and seek refuge in Allah from its evil. ) "
4044-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “I saw my head being cut off and my head was rolling on the ground.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He will do something to frighten one of you (in his dream). Then that person is afraid of it. Then in the morning he went and told his (dream) to people (that is, it is unnecessary to fear and tell about the dream like this)). "
4045-) - “... From Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: One day, while the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was delivering a sermon, a man came to him and said: Messenger of Allah! Last night I dreamed that it was as if my neck had been struck and my head had fallen to the ground. “So I went to the back of my head and picked it up and put it back,” he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he plays with one of you in his sleep, he should not tell people about that dream. ) "
4046-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he sees a dream that he does not like, he should not let people know that Satan is playing with him in his dream (that is, this kind of dream). ) "
4047-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Rezîn (Lakît bin Amir) (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the following order from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “It is on the feet of a bird (that is, unstable and suspended) unless it is interpreted.” . It happens when interpreted. ) The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (continuing his command) said (The beautiful and healthy dream is one of the forty-six parts of prophecy). Abu Razin said: And I think he said: (The owner should not tell it to anyone other than the one who loves it or the one who has knowledge and insight (about the interpretation of dream).) "
4048-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Take the names of the things you see as a basis for the interpretation of that dream. Take the identifiers (or) allusional meanings of the things you see in your dreams as a basis to interpret. The dream (possibly more than one interpretation) is to the first interpreter (that is, it occurs according to him). ) "
4049-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "If he lies, claiming that he saw a dream he has not seen, (on the Day of Judgment) he will be offered to tie two barley grains together, and he will be rewarded for not being able to do it. ) "
4050-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When the end is near (that is, towards the end of the world), a believer's dream will not turn out to be a lie. The truest of the believers in terms of dreams is the most truthful, and the believer's dream is a part of the forty-six parts of prophecy. ) "
4051-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: When he returned from Uhud (harbin), a man came to (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “Rasûlullah! I dreamed of a cloud, oil and honey pouring from it. I saw people take handfuls of oil and honey from the rain. Some got a lot, some got a little. Meanwhile, I saw a rope reaching (from the earth) to the sky. I saw you holding that rope and rising (towards the sky) with it. And after you, I saw a man grab that rope and rise with it. And after that man, I saw another man grab that rope and rise with it. After that I saw that another man was holding that rope. But the thread broke. Then the rope tied for him and he came together and he rose with that rope, he said. Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) said to him: Messenger of Allah! He said (release) me (that is, allow me) to interpret this dream. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Abu Bakr (also) commented: The cloud this man sees is the religion of Islam. The oil and honey falling from it is the Qur'an. Its sweetness and softness. As for what the people took from him handfuls; They are Muslims who benefit from the Qur'an (abilities) more or less according to their efforts and receive blessings. The rope stretching to the sky is the (just) government on which you are. You got the right. It also helped you rise. After you, a man will hold the rope of truth and justice, and he will rise with it. After that, another man will hire, and he will rise. Then someone else will. But the rope will break, then it will bind together for him, and so he will rise. Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (to Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh)) said: “You hit some and you made a mistake in others.” Upon this, Abu Bakr said: O Messenger of Allah, distinguish the part I hit from the part where I made a mistake and inform me. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Do not do it, O Ebâ Bakr). ..... From Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); He said: The man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlullah! He said (in my dream) I saw a cloud between the sky and the earth, it was raining oil and honey from the cloud, and the narrator told the same hadith. "
4053-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: I was a single young man when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was alive. For this reason, I used to stay in Masjid an-Nabawi for the night (i.e. I slept there because I was not married). When one of us (companions) saw a dream, he would tell it to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). I once prayed: If there is any good (good) situation for me in your sight, show me a dream that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) would interpret. Then I slept and saw in my dream that; Two angels came to me and took me away. Then (on the way) another angel met them and said to me: There is nothing to fear. Then those two angels took me to hell. I saw that Hell was built up like a well wall (with stones) and there were some people I knew in it. Then the same angels took me to a road to the right (i.e., away from hell). In the morning, I told this dream (my sister Umm al-Mu'min) to Hafsa (radiyallahu anha). He also said that he told my dream to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Certainly, he is a righteous (good) man. But if he had prayed a lot at night. ) said: Abdullah bin Omar used to pray a lot at night after that. "
4054-) - “... From Hareşe bin al-Hürr (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I went to Medina-i Münevvere and sat next to a group of sheikhs (that is, those who were older or older in knowledge) in the Masjid of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Then an old person came, leaning on a staff (cane). The congregation I was sitting with said: Whoever wants to be happy by looking at a man from the people of Paradise should look at this person. This person stood behind a column and prayed two rak'ahs. Then I got up and went to him and said to him: Some of the congregation said (about you) such and such. This old person: Praise be to Allah. Paradise belongs to Allah, he includes whomever he wishes. (As for the reason why the congregation said about me) I had a dream when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was alive. I saw this in my dream: It was as if a man came to me and said: Walk. I also went with him. It took me on a great road. Then I was shown a road on my left. I wanted to go that route too. But the man said: You are not of the people of this road. I was then shown a path to my right. I took that road too. Finally, I came to a slippery mountain. The man grabbed my hand and threw me (upward). I was at the top of the mountain at that moment. But (on the top of the slippery mountain) I couldn't stop and hold on. At that moment, an iron pole with a golden handle appeared on top. The man (again) grabbed my hand and threw me. Finally, I grabbed that handle. Man: (Handle) hugged? said. I said yes, too. Then the man hit the pole with his foot and knocked it down. I was also strapped to the handle. The person (continuing his speech) said: I told my dream to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). He said: You had a good dream. The (first) great road is the apocalypse. (Then) the path shown on your left is the path of the people of hell. You are not from the people of that road. (Then) the path shown on your right hand is the path of the people of Paradise. As for the slippery mountain, it is the station of the martyrs. (You will not reach this level by being a martyr). The handle you hold is the Islamic handle. In this respect, keep holding on to this handle until you die.) I hope to be among the people of Paradise because of this (that is, the exact information is only with Allah.) He said, "Then I learned that this old person is Abdullah bin Salam."
4055-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I saw in a dream that I had migrated from Makkah to a country with date orchards. I thought that place was Yamama or Hecer. But it was seen that that place was Medina, Yathrib. In that dream, I also saw that I was swinging a sword and the blade of the sword was cut off. Then it was seen that these were the believers who were martyred on the day of Uhud. (I also saw this in that dream:) Then I waved my sword (again) and the sword turned into the most beautiful state. It was seen that this was the conquest granted by Allah and the gathering of the believers. In that dream, I saw (suffocated) cattle and the phrase "Allah is (there is) good in what He does)" (sentence). Then it was seen that the (strangled) cattle were the group of believers (martyrred) on the day of Uhud (the battle), and the good (in the dream) was also the good (victories) that Allah gave us after that, and the day of Badr (war) that Allah gave us. the reward of loyalty (patience, fortitude in jihad)
4056-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Once in a dream, I saw two gold bracelets on both my arms. (These were heavy for me) Then I blew on the bracelets (both flew away immediately). Then I interpreted these bracelets with these two timeszab (very liar, false prophet) Musaylama and al-Ansi. ) "
4057-) - “... According to what is narrated from Umm al-Fadl (Lubabe bint-i al-Haris) (radiyallahu anhuma), he said: Rasûlullah! I saw in my dream that; He said, "As if a limb (organ) from your limbs was in my house." The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said (to him): You saw good. (My daughter) Fatima gives birth to a son. You also breastfeed him), he said. Then Fâtime gave birth to Hasan or Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anhum). Umm al-Fadl (her baby) nursed her with Kusem's milk. Umm al-Fadl (continuing her speech) said: One day I took her to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and put her in her lap. The baby (while in His lap) cuddled. That's why I hit the baby on the shoulder. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to me): You hurt my son. May Allah have mercy on you), he said. "
4058-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: I saw a black woman with unkempt hair, leaving Medina and finally settling in Mehyea, which is al-Juhfa. Then I interpreted the woman I saw in my dream with the plague of Medina. This disease was also transferred there. ) "
4059-) - “... From Talha bin Ubeydullah (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: Two men from the tribe (of your tribe) came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The two of them accepted Islam together. The work and effort of one of them (for the sake of Islam) was more and stronger than that of the other. The hardest working one of them went to war and was martyred. The other lived another year after that. Then he died too. He said: While I was sleeping, I met these two men while I was near the gate of heaven in my dream. Then a person came out of Paradise and allowed the deceased (to enter Paradise) of these two men. After a while, the same person (who was in charge) went out (again) and allowed the martyred man (to enter Paradise). Then the person (in charge) turned to me and said: You go back. “Because it is not yet time for you to enter heaven,” he said. In the morning he told this dream to the people. Everyone was surprised that the martyred man entered Paradise after the other. Finally, this news reached the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and the people presented him with the event of this dream. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: What are you wondering about the incident?). Companions: O Messenger of Allah! This (that is, the man who first died and then entered heaven) was more diligent and hardworking than his friend. Then he was martyred. However, they said that this other (ie his friend) entered Paradise before him. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked: Did the man who entered first not live another year after the man who was martyred? The Companions said: Yes, he lived. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He reached the month of Ramadan and fasted. He performed so many prayers and such prostrations in a year, right?). The Companions said: Yes, it is true. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Then, the distance between them is farther than the distance between the sky and the earth.” "
4060-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: I do not call (in a dream) a son (—seeing the lala worn on his neck) and kayd (—seeing the shackle on the foot)! I like. Kayd (ie shackles) is perseverance in religion. )
4061-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'I have been commanded to fight people until they say Ilaha illallah (that is, there is no true god but Allah). When they say this (that is, the word Tawhid), they protect their lives and property from me, with the exception of the right (punishments) of the word Tawhid. (Whether they are sincere in faith or not) belongs to Allah Azza wa Jalla.)
4062-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I have been commanded to fight people until they say 'Ilaha illallah'. When they say "La ilaha illallah", they protect their blood and property, with the exception of the right (punishments) of the word Tawhid. The account (whether they are sincere or not) rests with Allah. ) "
4063-) - “... Evs (bin Ebî Aws Huzeyfe es-Sakafi) (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported that he said: (One day) we were sitting next to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He was preaching by telling us what had happened. At that time a man came to Him and spoke to Him in secret. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Take the man and kill him). When the man went back, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) called out to him and asked: Do you testify that there is no god but Allah? The man (also): said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (on this): and release the man. Because I have been commanded to fight people until they say "La ilaha illallah". When they commit this (that is, when they bring the word Tawhid), their blood and property will be forbidden to me. "
4064-) - “... from Imran bin Husayn (radiyallahu anh); He said: bin al-Ezrak (who is the head of the Ezraki branch of the Kharijites) and his friends came and said: You are destroyed (you have left the religion) O Imran, Imran replied: I am not destroyed (I did not go into disbelief). They said: On the contrary (you have left Islam). Imran: What is it that destroyed me? she asked. They said: (Fight them (i.e. the polytheists) until there is no fitna (that is, associating partners with Allah) but the religion is completely Allah's (Islam)). They said, "That is, you took our side and did not fight non-foreigners." Imran said: We fought until we eliminated the polytheists, and the religion completely belonged to Allah (that is, the Hijaz was completely cleared of the polytheists). They said: Did you (did) hear the hadith from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? they asked. Imran: (I heard). I witnessed the following incident, he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent a military force from Muslims to the polytheists. When the outgoing Muslim soldiers encountered the polytheists, they fought a fierce battle with them. As a result, the polytheists were defeated and gave their milk to the Muslim soldiers (that is, they were broken in the war and eliminated). Then, when a man close to me attacked one of the polytheists with a spear and approached him, the polytheist man said: "Ashhadu anla ilaha illallah = I testify that there is no true god but Allah." I am a Muslim, without a doubt. But (despite this) the man close to me struck him with the spear and killed him. Then he came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlullah! He said, "I have perished (that is, I have committed a great sin). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said once or twice: (What is a sin?) The man presented his work to Him. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to the man, “You did not believe in his sincerity even though you testified that he was a Muslim.” Man, O Messenger of Allah! If I had slit his stomach, would I have known what was in his heart? When he said that, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "Then, you have neither accepted what he said, nor do you know what is in your heart." He said: Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not say anything about the man. The man also lived a little time. He finally died. We buried him. In the morning of the next day, his body was seen on the ground. The people said: An enemy may have dug his corpse from the ground. We buried him (again). Then we ordered our youth to stand guard by his grave. In the morning of the next day, the corpse was (again) on the earth. This time we said: Our young people may have slept (by the way, the corpse may have been removed by the enemy), and after (again) burial, this time we ourselves kept watch over him. In the morning of the next day, the corpse was on the ground. We have now (abandoned burying) the body and threw it on one of the roads between those mountains. "
4065-) - “... Imran bin al-Husayn (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent us in a military detachment (war). Then (at the end of the war), a Muslim man attacked a polytheist man, saying the above hadith, and in this narration he also said: After he buried the corpse, the ground threw the body out. Thereupon, the situation was presented to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He also said: He will certainly accept anyone worse than that man. However, Allah loved to show you the reverence of the word - La ilaha illallah.)
4066-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said in his farewell pilgrimage: people!) Be aware that the holiest of days is this (eid) day. Be aware that and the holiest of months is this month of Dhu al-Hijjah. Be aware that the most sacred of cities is your city (Mecca). Be aware that in this month of Dhu al-Hijjah, in your city (in Mecca), your blood and property are unlawful for you (i.e. shedding each other's blood and blood), just as this day of yours is holy (i.e., it is forbidden to sin in Mecca on the day of Eid). It is also strictly forbidden for you to eat each other's property unjustly at all times and in all places. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (also); (O Allah, be a witness), he said.
4067-) - “... From Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiyallahu anh); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) circumambulating the Ka'ba and saying (during circumambulation) ((O Ka'ba!) How beautiful are you and how nice is your scent. I swear by (Allah) in whose hand is the life (power) of Muhammad, the honor of the believer is undoubtedly greater in the sight of Allah than your respect. ) "
4068-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Everything is haram for a Muslim. His blood, property and race. ) "
4069-) - “... According to what is reported from Fadale bin Ubayd (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He is the one from whom people are safe (i.e., from his evil) in terms of their wealth and lives. A Muhajir is a person who abandons mistakes and sins. ) "
4070-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he seizes a property openly (or plunders it by force), that person is not one of us. ) " "As reported by Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When a person commits adultery, he does not commit adultery as a believer, and a person who drinks alcohol does not drink as a believer when he drinks. When a thief steals, he does not steal as a believer. A person who takes someone else's property in front of people does not commit this crime as a believer when he seizes it openly (or plunders it by force). ) "
4072-) - “... According to what is reported from Imran bin Husayn (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If he takes a property openly or by force, he is not one of us."
4073-) - “... From Sa'lebe bin al-Hakam (radiyallahu anh); He said: We came across and plundered a flock of sheep of the enemy. Then (to cook the mutton we slit) we set up our pots (put them on the fire). Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stopped by the pots and by his order, the pots fell (meat spilled). Then he said: The looted goods are not halal. ) "
4074-) - “... (Abdullah) bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (It is haram to curse a Muslim. Fighting with him is also kufr)
4075-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Cursing is sinful. Colliding with him is also blasphemy.)
4076-) - “... According to what is reported from Sa'd (bin Abi'l-Vakkas) (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Cursing is sinful. Colliding with him is also blasphemy.)
4077-) - “... According to what is reported from Cerir bin Abdillah (al-Beceli) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered (to him) during the Farewell pilgrimage: be quiet (and let them listen). After (the people were silent) he said: Then do not be disbelievers by beating each other's necks. ) "
4078-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Woe to you (or woe to you), do not become disbelievers after me by striking each other's necks. ) "
4079-) - “... According to what is reported from Sunabih al-Ahmesi (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Behold, I will certainly be your pioneer (that is, prepare your needs in advance) on the pool of kevser, and I will be proud of your abundance against other ummahs. Therefore, do not kill each other after me (do not collide). ) "
4080-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Bakr-i Siddiq (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he performs the morning prayer, he is under the protection of Allah. Do not violate this assurance of Allah any longer. Therefore, whoever kills such a person (without sharia law), Allah will interrogate the person who killed him and throw him into Hell upside down. ) "
4081-) - “... According to what is reported from Samura bin Jundeb (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he performs the morning prayer, he is under the protection of Allah (Azza wa Jalla). ) "
4082-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “A person is superior to some of his angels in the sight of Allah (Azza wa Jalla). ) "
4083-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever fights under a blindly opened flag (that is, in a gathered community) for an unknowable cause, whether it is right or wrong, by encouraging an ancestral cause (people) or getting angry about an ancestry cause. , the killing of that person is a murder of ignorance. ) "
4084-) - “... From Fuseyle's father (Vasile bin el-Eska') (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: O Messenger of Allah! Is it from bigotry (a kind of thing) for a man to love his own people? I asked the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). He said: But it is from bigotry (kind of) that a man helps his own people in oppression). "
4085-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I heard this order from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him)! My ummah will certainly not gather (unite) on misguidance. Therefore, when you see a disagreement (among my Ummah), do not leave the large Muslim community.)
4086-) - “... He said from Muaz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) one day he performed a prayer and extended the prayer. Then when he finished the prayer: O Messenger of Allah! We said (or they said) that you extended the prayer today. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): I prayed a prayer of hope and fear. I (in prayer) asked Allah (Azza wa Jalla) for three things for my ummah. God gave two things and refused one of them to me (he did not give it). I wanted my ummah not to be an enemy from others (i.e., disbelievers) (that is, not to destroy the ummah). God gave this to me. I wanted my ummah not to be destroyed by drowning. He gave this to me too. I also wanted the war of my ummah not to be fought among themselves. But Allah refused my request.)
4087-) - “... According to what is reported from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the freed slave of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It was rolled up for me to such an extent that I saw its eastern and western parts. Yellow (or red) and white (i.e. gold and silver) treasures were also given to me, and it was said to me: Your (ummah's) property will (expand) up to the areas that were rolled up for you. I asked Allah Azza wa Jalla (water) for three things (or three times): O Allah, not to inflict a famine that will destroy all of my ummah, and not to make my ummah into factions (fighting each other and civil war) and not to let some of them taste the torment of their bases. I wanted too. To me (against these requests) by Allah: When I give a verdict, there is no room for it not to be executed, and I will not inflict on your ummah a famine that will destroy them (completely), and the (infidel enemies) among the world's surroundings will be against your ummah. I will not gather so that some of his ummah will destroy others and kill each other, it was commanded. When a sword is put into my ummah (that is, there is a civil war), the sword will not be removed from them until the Day of Judgment (that is, the civil war will not end). Undoubtedly, one of the things I fear for my ummah is the astray (that is, call to innovations and sins) imams (that is, statesmen. Some tribes from my ummah will worship idols and some tribes from my ummah will join the polytheists. Near the Day of Judgment, there will be nearly thirty false dajjals. All of the dajjals. (However, I am the last of the prophets and there is no prophet after me). His opponents, who will stay and receive divine help, will not be able to harm them.) He said: When Abu Abdillah (ibn-i Maceh) finished the narration of this hadith, he said: What a terrible hadith this is.
4088-) - “... According to what is reported from Zaynab bint-i Jahsh (radiy-Allâhu anha), (one of the wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) woke up from his sleep and his face reddened (from rush). In the situation: Ilaha illallah, woe to the Arabs because of an evil (fitna) that is imminent. Today, a hole was dug from the wall of Gog and Magog, he said, and joined the tip of the index finger with the joint in the middle of his thumb (to show the size of the hole opened) and made a ring. ) (radiyallahu anha) said: I am O Messenger of Allah! Will we perish even though there are righteous (i.e., obedient, good and clean believers) among us? I asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) replied: , ) when prostitution, sin and wickedness increase (you will perish). "
4089-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Umama (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There will be strife. The man will wake up as a believer in those trials and will end up as a disbeliever. However, those whom Allah has revived (his heart) with knowledge are exempt (from this danger). ) "
4090-) - “... from Huzeyfe (bin el-Yeman) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (One day the caliph) We were sitting next to Omar (bin al-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh). Umar (to the Companions who were there): He memorizes the hadith of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about fitna? she asked. Huzeyfe said, on this question: (I remember well), I said. Omar (radiyallahu anh) said: You really dare (remember the hadith). (After) How is the hadith? she asked. Huzayfa: I, from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): the temptation (sin) he was subjected to because of his family, son and neighbor; He said, "I have heard the command: prayer, fasting, charity, ordering good things and forbidding bad things are expiation." Then (radiyallahu anh): asking) this is not what I want (fitna hadith). He said, "I only mean the (hadith about) fitnah that fluctuates like the waves of the sea." Thereupon, Huzeyfe (radiyallahu anh) said: The Commander of the Believers! What do you have to do with that fitna? “Surely, there is a locked door between you and that fitnah,” he said. Omar (radiyallahu anh): Will the door be broken or will it open? she asked. Huzeyfe (radiyallahu anh) replied: It will be broken. Omar (radiyallahu anh) said: The broken door (compared to the opened door) cannot be locked at all. He said to Us Huzeyfe: Did he know who the door was? we asked. Huzeyfe (radiyallahu anh): as he knew (he knew) that this night would come before tomorrow. He said, 'I narrated a hadith that was not false and false. said:) Upon this, we did not dare to ask Huzeyfe who the door was, but we said to Mesruk: You ask Huzeyfe. Mesruk asked him. He said: (The door) is Omar. "
4091-) - “... From Abdurrahman bin Abd-i Rabbi'l-Ka'be (radiyallahu anh); He said: One day, Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) was sitting in the shadow of the Ka'ba, and I came to him while the people were gathered around him. I heard this from Abdullah (at this time): We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey. He stayed in a mansion for a while. On top of that, some of us were setting up their own tents, some of us were shooting arrows, and some of us were busy with their grazing animals. Meanwhile, the caller of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) called, "Come to prayer." We got together right away. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood up and addressed us as follows: It was undoubtedly a right and a duty on every previous prophet to show them what he thought good for his ummah and to warn them against what he thought was bad. The well-being of this ummah of yours (that is, being safe from things that harm religion) has been made before. Trouble will befall the last part of this Ummah and certain things that you will not like will certainly come to pass. Then there will be such trials that some will alleviate others (that is, since the next fitna will be more severe than the previous one, it will leave the previous one light). Now the believing servant says (when a fitna comes): this is the fitna that destroyed me. After a while, that fitna passes. After this, another fitna comes and the believing servant says: This is the fitna that destroyed me. Then that fitna also opens up and goes away. Now, whoever makes him happy to be removed from the fire of Hell and to enter Paradise, let him die while he believes in Allah and the Last Day, and let people do what he wishes them to do to him. Whoever has pledged allegiance to a head of state and given his hand to him (that is, he has chosen) and is sincerely committed should obey him with all his might. If, after this, another head of state comes along and tries to come to terms with the first one (that is, if he wants to start a rebellion), beat the neck of the later one.) bin Abd-i Rabbi'l-Ka'ba said: Thereupon, I stuck my head forward from among the community (ie. Getting close to Abdullah (radiyallahu anh): For God's sake, I ask you, did you hear this hadith from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) yourself? said. Abdurrahman said: Thereupon, Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) pointed to his ears with his hand and said: My ears heard this, my heart also memorized it, memorized it well. "
4092-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: What will be your situation in the near future, when the good ones go through a sieve, the bad ones stay, their loyalty to the covenants and their observance of the trusts are broken, they are in disagreement (the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) intertwined the fingers of his hands) and they are like this? ?) commanded. Companions: Messenger of Allah! When the situation you describe is the case, how should we do it? they asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): you keep what you know. You leave what you don't accept (that's right). You tend to your own things (that is, the things that concern you and your family members) and leave the work of others). "
4093-) - “... From Ebi Zerr-i Gifari (radiyallahu anh); He said: Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (one day): Eba Dharr! What will you do with the death of so many people that your house (i.e., your grave) will be as expensive as a slave?). he commanded. I said: And the situation that the Messenger of Allah chose for me (or Abu Dharr said: Allah and His Messenger are the ones who know best) will happen. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: work. Abu Zer said: I replied: Allah and His Messenger know best (or whatever Allah and His Messenger have chosen for me). ) and then he said: Eba Zer!) Hicaretu'z-Zeyt (the place called) said, "How will you be in the killing (fitnah) that will happen to people to such an extent that they will be covered in blood?") I said: And it will be the situation that his Messenger chose for me. Then the Messenger of Allah -i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): what you are Join the mseler (that is, your tribe or the caliph to whom you have pledged allegiance). Me: Messenger of Allah! Should I not take my sword and smite those who do this with my sword? I asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): When you do this, you become a partner (sin) of those who do this. And yet, enter your own house (shut up). Me: Messenger of Allah! What if my house is broken into? I asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): If you are afraid that the shine of the sword will defeat you, throw the hem of the rida (dress worn from the waist up) on your face (that is, cover your face) so that the attacker will return with his own sin and the sin of killing you, and thus I will go to hell. be from his people, ) he said. "
4094-) - “... From Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to us: (There will certainly be something wrong in the near future). Abu Musa said: I said: Messenger of Allah! What is here? I asked. He: ) commanded. Thereupon, some Muslims said: Messenger of Allah! They said, 'We are currently killing this and that of the polytheists in a single year. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied to this statement: It is not to kill the polytheists (that is, those who associate partners with Allah). However, some of us will kill some of us, and even the man will kill his neighbor, his uncle's son and his relatives.) Then some of those who were there: will the day be (we will kill each other) even though our minds are with us (that is, in our heads)? she asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The minds of most of the people at that time will be taken away and some mindless, mean people will be the men of that period.” Al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh) said: I swear to Allah, I seriously think that the situation will reach me and you (ie you will see those days). By Allah, if that situation reaches us, there is no other way out, neither for me nor for you, except that we exit it as we entered it (without committing a crime) according to the advice of our Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). "
4095-) - “... From Udeyse bint-i Uhban (bin Sayfi al-Gifari) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: When bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh) came to Basra, he entered my father's house and said (to my father): Eba Muslim! Won't you help me against this tribe (i.e. won't you join the war as a supporter of me)? she asked. My father said: I will. Ravi said: Then Udeyse's father called one of his concubines and said: O concubine, take out my sword. Ravi said: The concubine also went and brought the sword. Udeyse's father drew a handful of the sword from its sheath. Also, it was seen that the sword is made of wood. Then Udeyse's father (to Ali bin Abi Talib): my friend and your uncle's son (Muhammad) (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) advised me when there would be strife among the Muslims. That's why I'm getting a wooden sword. If you wish, I will go out with you (with this sword), he said. Ali bin Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh) said: And I do not need your sword. "
4096-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There will be terrible strife (dark) in the near future, like the dark parts of the dark night (pitch). In those seditions, a man will wake up as a believer and in the evening as a disbeliever, and he will go to the evening as a believer and wake up as a disbeliever. The person who sits (not getting involved in anything) during those trials is better than the person standing. He who stands in strife is better than one who walks, and one who walks in strife is better than one who goes fast. In this respect (if you reach that period), break your bowstrings, shatter your bowstrings, and strike your swords on the stone (which will break or blunt). If one of you (the place where he is) is entered (and is wanted to be killed), let him be like the benefactor of Adam (Aleyhisselam)'s two sons (named Abel and Cain) (that is, he prefers to be a victim rather than a murderer). ) "
4097-) - “... According to what is reported from Muhammad bin Maslama (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There will certainly be strife, grouping and conflict. When this happens, take your sword to Mount Uhud and strike it (stones) until it shatters. Then stay at home until you are killed unjustly or die normally.” bin Maslama said:) Then this situation happened and I did what the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) commanded. "
4098-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There are no two Muslims who meet and fight so that neither the murderer nor the deceased will be in Hell.)
4099-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When they meet and fight with the swords of Muslims, both those who kill and those who are killed are in Hell. Companions: Messenger of Allah! this is the murderer (we understand), but what is the sin of the victim? they asked. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He wanted to kill his friend (with whom he had fought). "
4100-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (When two Muslims attack each other with guns, they are both on the edge of Hell. When one of them kills his friend, they both go to Hell.) "
4101-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "One of the people who will have a bad place in his sight on the Day of Judgment is a servant who takes away his own hereafter (happiness) by taking someone else's world."
4102-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There will be a fitna that covers it. Those who are killed are in hell. In that fitnah, the tongue is more severe than the blow of the sword. ) "
4103-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Stay away. For, without a doubt, the tongue (in terms of effect) is like a sword blow in sedition. ) "
4104-) - “... According to what is reported from Alkame bin Vakkas (radiy-Allâhu anh): a man (one day) stopped by him and Alkame said to him: You (me) have a close relationship. Indeed, you also have a right (on me). I see you come in with these amirs (class) and talk to them as much as Allah wills (that is, a lot). However, I heard the following hadith from Bilal bin al-Harith al-Muzeni (radiy-Allâhu anh), the friend of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): ) he utters a word without thinking that he will reach the high level he has reached. Allah (Azza wa Jalla) writes his consent (grace) for that person until the Day of Judgment in return for that word. He says it, not thinking that he will reach the level of (great evil) and Allah (Azza wa Jalla) writes his wrath against that person until he appears before him. think. He said, "There are so many words that the hadith I heard from Bilal bin al-Haris (radiyallahu anh) prevented me from saying those words (seriously). "
4105-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "A man speaks a word from words that cause Allah's wrath. That's a so-called offense, he wouldn't mind. Then, because of him, he falls to the bottom of the fire of hell, at a distance of seventy years. ) "
4106-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If he believes in Allah and the Last Day, he should say good or remain silent (not speak useless or harmful words). ) "
4107-) - “... From Sufyan bin Abdillah es-Sakafi (radiyallahu anh); He said: O Messenger of Allah! "Tell me about something that I'll hold tight to (advice)," I said. He said: Say Allah, and be steadfast (that is, do not deviate from the straight path of Islam). Me: Messenger of Allah! What are you most afraid of about me? I asked. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) held his own (blessed) tongue. Later;. he commanded. (So the thing I fear most about you is your language). "
4108-) - “... from Muaz bin Cebel (radiyallahu anh); He said: I was with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) on a journey. One day, while I was on the road, I was near him and said: The Messenger of Allah! I asked him to inform me of an action (good deed) that would take me into Paradise and away from Hell. He: You really wanted something big, and surely that thing is easy for the one whom Allah has succeeded: by worshiping Allah, you do not associate anything with Him, you perform the prayer, pay the zakat, keep the Ramadan fast and go to the Ka'ba. He said, 'You make the pilgrimage (tawaf). Then: meat, I show you the doors of good: Fasting is a shield (against sins - punishment). Charity extinguishes sin (flame) just as water extinguishes fire, and man's prayer in the middle of the night (symbol of righteous believers). ) commanded. Later: . . . . . . verse and its continuation; . . . . . . . He read until It is as follows: "They get up from their beds (to pray at night), beg their Lord with fear and hope, and spend out of the sustenance We have given them for charity. No one knows what is hidden for them as the light of their eyes in return for their good deeds." (Sajda: 16, 17) Then the Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I am informing you about the beginning, the pillar and the summit of the matter: (It is also jihad.) After that, he said: Shall I not inform you of the turning point of having all the things I have told you? I said: Give it to me. Thereupon, he held his (blessed) tongue with his hand and then said: You will prevent (being) against (your tongue). Me: Nebiyallah! Are we (are) really held accountable for the things we talk about? said. He: I'm surprised at your negligence, Ya Muaz. Does anything other than what their tongues know (useless words) make people go to hell?) "
4109-) - “... According to what is reported from Umm Habiba (radiy-Allâhu anha), the wife of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (The words spoken by the son of Adam, apart from enjoining what is good, forbidding evil and remembering Allah (Azza wa Jalla), are against him and are not in his favor.)
4110-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma): We go to our amirs and say something. Then, when we go out, it was said that we would say someone else. "
4111-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is one of the beauties of a person's Islam that he leaves what he does not need (in terms of his religion and world)."
4112-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A good life for him is the life of a man holding the reins of his horse (ready for war) on which he will fly, on his back, in the way of Allah (for jihad). Every time he hears a fearful enemy voice or a call to attack the enemy, he wants to be a veteran or a martyr in the fields of death or killing by jumping up on his horse as if flying towards that voice, and the good life is that man's life, which is the life of that man on top of a hill from the tops of these mountains or in one of those streams. found in a flock of sheep. He performs his prayers on time and in accordance with the rules, pays his zakat and serves his Lord until he dies. Nothing but kindness works towards people. ) "
4113-) - “... According to what is reported from Ebil Said-i Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): a man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: Which of the people is more virtuous? she asked. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: A (believer) man who fights in the way of Allah with his wealth. Questioner: who next? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A person who is in a stream (that is, in a place far from the people) who worships Allah (Azza wa Jalla) and leaves people in peace from his evil (that is, he does not harm anyone). "
4114-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe bin al-Yeman (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There will be a group calling (hell) at its gates. Whoever goes to those doors in response to those invitees, the invitees will throw that person into Hell (that is, cause him to enter Hell)," he said. (Huzeyfe said) I said: Messenger of Allah! Tell us (describe) the characteristics of that group, I said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: They are a group of our nation (or sons of Adam), they talk with our tongues). Me: How do you order me to act if that time of strife reaches me? I asked. He: adhere to the Muslim community and its imam (i.e., the head of state), (do not separate from them). If Muslims do not have a congregation and do not have an imam, stay away from all sects by clenching your teeth until death reaches you, even if you stay away from all those sects by biting the root of a tree (hardly). "
4115-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The time is near when his best property will be herds on mountain tops and in rainy fields - to protect his religion from strife. ) "
4116-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe bin al-Yeman (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There will be strife. There will be people calling to the fire of Hell at the gates of those seditions. It is better for you to die biting the root of a tree than to be subject to one of them.)
4117-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (Smart, intelligent) A believer does not stumble through a snake hole twice.)
4118-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: And the intelligent one.) A believer does not stumble through the hole of a snake twice.)
4119-) - “... Numan bin Bashir (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) pointed at his two ears with his two fingers on the pulpit (in other words, stating that he heard it with his own ears): I heard the following command from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: (things) it is obvious. What is haram (things) is also clear. There are some doubtful things between halal and haram (whether it is halal or haram) that many people do not know. In this respect, whoever avoids doubtful things will save his religion (from deficiencies) and chastity (that is, his honor and dignity) - from the language of the people. A person who indulges in doubtful things (the principality, which is forbidden to enter) falls into haram like a shepherd who grazes (his cattle) around the grove and grazes in the grove. Be aware that every ruler has a special grove. Beware, the grove of Allah (on earth) is also something that he has forbidden. For your information, there is a bite of meat in a person's body, when it is good, the whole corpse is good, and when it is corrupted, the whole corpse is corrupted. Be aware that that piece of meat is the heart.)
4120-) - “... According to what is reported from Ma'kil bin Yasar (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Worshiping during the time of fitna and corruption is (virtuous) like emigration to me.)
4121-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It started as a strange state and will turn into a strange state (one day) as it started. Blessed are those strange (believers).)
4122-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: No doubt, it started (like) and will (one day) be (like) again. Blessed are those strange (believers).)
4123-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: No doubt, it started as a strange state and will (one day) turn into a strange state. Happy are the poor (believers).) Ibn Mas'ud said: Who are the poor? he was asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: They are those who have left (for Islam).
4124-) - “... According to what is reported from Umar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh): One day, he went to the mosque of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (in Madinah) and Muadh bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh)' He saw the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) sitting next to the grave and crying. Then (to him): what made you cry? she asked. Muaz (radiyallahu anh): Something I heard from (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) makes me cry. He said: I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). (even) a little of riya is shirk (that is, associating partners with Allah). Whoever is hostile to a friend of Allah, he will certainly go out to fight Allah. God; He truly loves his servants who are obedient, pious, and stay away from the people, that they are not sought when they are not seen (that is, no one can inquire about their condition and whereabouts). If they are ready (for assemblies and important works) they are not invited or recognized. Their hearts are the lights of guidance. They always come out of dusty and dark shelters (or overcoming hard-to-solve problems)"
4125-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (People are like a hundred camels, among which you will not find a pure and useful one.) "
4126-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He divided into seventy-one sects. My ummah will also be divided into seventy-three sects.)
4127-) - “... According to what is narrated from Avf bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He divided into seventy-one sects. One (of them) will be in Paradise and seventy will be in the Fire. The Christians were also divided into seventy-two sects. Seventy-one groups (of them) will be in the fire and one will be in Paradise. I swear by (Allah) in whose hand is the life (power) of Muhammad. My Ummah will definitely split into seventy-three sects. One party is in Paradise and seventy-two groups are in the fire.) Messenger of Allah! Who are the party in Paradise? he was asked. He replied: (The community in the way of the Companions). "
4128-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "The sons of Israel were divided into seventy-one sects. My ummah will certainly be divided into seventy-two sects. All of them are in the fire. Not one faction is in the fire. It is the congregation (in the way of the Companions)."
4129-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "May it be, you will certainly follow the path of those (nations) before you closely, ear to ear, and span to square. Even if they enter a (narrow) lizard hole, you will definitely go into that hole. You will enter.) O Messenger of Allah! (Those nations) Jews and Christians? they asked. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Who else would be without these?)
4130-) - “... from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood up (one day) and made the following speech to the congregation: I swear by Allah, O people, what I fear for you is only the worldly adornment (wealth) that Allah will bring out for you. ) a man said to him: Messenger of Allah! Does no (that is, the blessing of property) bring evil? (which you're worried about) he asked. After this question, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: No (something that happens) will certainly bring only good. But is property (necessarily) good? (See) All the plants (the stuffed animal) that the small river (or spring rain) eats immediately kill or bring them closer to death with the bloating of the snow. But the (harmless) meadow eater, the animal eats (it), finally sunbathes when its flanks are full (swollen), then easily flips over and squats. Then it ruminates (and thus digests what's in its stomach) and then returns (to the meadow) to graze. Thus, whoever buys a property (like this) legitimately, that property will be blessed. The situation of a person who buys a property illegally is similar to the situation of a glutton who eats and is not satisfied. ) "
4131-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) once asked: What kind of people will you be when (Iran) and the Greek treasures will be conquered by you? Abdurrahman bin Awf (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: We will say as he ordered us (that is, we wish the blessings to increase by giving praise and gratitude). Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): other things (you say - you do or your situation will be different). You compete with each other (for money), then you become envious (can't bear it), then you turn your back on each other and break up, then you hold grudges against each other. Or you become like this. Then you will go to the weak of the immigrants and you will make some of them commanders on the necks of others).
4132-) - “... From Amr bin Avf -who was a friend of Amir bin Lüey's sons and participated in the Battle of Badr in the company of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)- (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent Abu Ubayda bin al-Cerrah (radiy-Allâhu anh) there to pay the jizya of Bahrain (the non-Muslims of his people). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) made peace with the people of Bahrain and appointed al-Ala bin al-Hadrami (radiyallahu anh) as their governor. Then Abu Ubeyde brought some jizya goods (to Medina-i Münevvere) from Bahrain. When the Ansar heard Abu Ubayda coming, they suddenly came to perform the morning prayer with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) finished the prayer, he left. The Ansar also opposed Abu Ubayda (at that time). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) smiled when he saw them. Then he said: I think you heard that Ubayda brought a lot of goods from Bahrain?). The Ansar said: O Messenger of Allah. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): be and hope for blessings that will make you happy (from now on always). By Allah, I have no fear that poverty will come upon you (from now on), but what I fear for you is that the world (blessings) spread before you as it did to the nations before you, and you will fall against each other in the same way as they could not attract each other and compete to take over the world. Finally, it is the world's destruction of you as it destroyed them. ) "
4133-) - “... According to what is narrated from Usama bin Zayd (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "Then I leave no fitna (reason) more harmful to men than to women. ) "
4134-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "In the morning, two angels shout: Shame on men for women and shame on women for men."
4135-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said(-i Hudri) (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood up and addressed (the people). One of the words he commanded in his sermon was as follows: The world (its property and blessings) is green and sweet (destined to rot quickly like a fruit, or is attractive with its beauty). And Allah has certainly made you vicegerents over the old nations in the world, so He will see how you act. Be careful, beware of the world (or diving) and protect yourself from (the fitna of) women.)
4136-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: (Once) while sitting in the Masjid, a decorated woman from Muzeyna (tribe) entered (the Masjid) and walked (even) inside the Masjid, dragging her skirt and boasting. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: People! You forbade your women from wearing fancy clothes and boasting in the Masjid. For the children of Israel were not cursed until their women wore fancy dress and boasted in the mosques.)
4137-) - “... According to what is reported from the Mevli Abi Ruhm (radiyallahu anh) named Ubayd: Hurayra (radiyallahu anh) met a woman who was smeared with perfume and wanted to go to the Masjid and said: Jabbar (Allah)'s concubine ! Where do you want to go? he asked. The woman replied: Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh): And did you apply perfume for him? When he said, the woman said: (On this) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I heard the following command from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) without a doubt: “Whenever a woman comes out of her house to go to the mosque (to go to the mosque) after applying perfume, she (removing that smell) None of his prayers will be accepted until he has made ablution.)
4138-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (to the women’s community): community of women! Give alms and seek forgiveness a lot (i.e. ask for forgiveness of your sins). Because I saw that you constitute the majority of the people of Hell.) On top of that, a sane person from the women's community said: We have a sin, that most of the people who live in Hell are women, O Messenger of Allah? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: You curse (this and this) a lot and you are ungrateful to your husband (that is, deny his blessings). I have not seen any of those who lack intelligence and religion overcome a smart person as much as you do.) Woman: Messenger of Allah! What is the lack of reason and religion? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): As for his deficiency: The testimony of two women is equivalent to the testimony of a man. This (equivalence judgment) is due to the lack of reason. A woman does not pray for days (due to menstruation) and does not fast during the month of Ramadan (during menstruation). And this is the defect (that is, the defect) of religion.
4139-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Invite the people (to the right path) and not answer your call (or not be accepted when you pray). enjoin (people) good things and forbid bad things.)
4140-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) (one day), after praising and praising Allah, he said: O people! You; believers! Take care of yourself. When you are on the path of guidance, no one who goes astray can harm you. You read the verse " (Maide 105) (and stop enjoining good and forbidding evil, thinking that its rule is general). However, we certainly heard the following command from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): when people see something bad and do not forbid it, Allah gives them a general message. When Abu Usama narrates this hadith another time, instead of Abu Bakr's (radiy-Allâhu anh) statement: "However, we certainly heard this order from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)": "Because I have certainly heard this order from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh).
4141-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Ubayda (bin Abdullah bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When his sons were deficient (in terms of religion), a man (religion) would see his brother on sin and forbid him from that sin. Then the next day (the sinner), the sin that he saw his brother committed (the day before); His man would not prevent him from eating with his (sinful) brother, drinking with him, and being close with him. As a result, Allah confused the hearts of some of them with those of others (that is, darkened the hearts of all those who sinned and those who were friends with them), and the Qur'an (verses) were revealed about them. reciting the verses) said: Those who disbelieved among his sons were cursed by the tongue of David and Isa, son of Mary. This is because they sin and go to extremes. " (78) they would not prevent one another from the evil they did. What an evil thing they were doing. " (79) You will see that most of them (in Mecca) took the unbelievers (pagans) as friends. The worst is what their souls put before them. Allah is angry with them, and they will abide in torment forever. " (80) If they had believed in Allah, the Prophet and the Qur'an that was revealed to him, they would not have taken the unbelievers as friends. But most of them are people who have disbelieved." (Maide 78 - 81) Abu Ubayda said: (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was leaning to one side (while saying this). Then he sat up and said: No (you will not be able to escape from the punishment or be excused) unless you hold the oppressor's arms (Muslims) and lead him (from falsehood) to the truth. ...
4143-) - “... It is narrated by Eba Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) got up and delivered a sermon, and one of the commands he commanded in his sermon was: Be mindful of the people when anyone knows the truth. certainly not prevent him from saying it,) was his command. Then Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh) cried and said: I swear by Allah, we saw certain things but we were afraid (we didn't say it).
4144-) - “. From Abu Said (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Let not one of you belittle his own self. Companions: How can he belittle himself? they asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): he sees something that it is Allah's right to speak about it. But he does not say anything about it (that is, he belittles himself by keeping silent out of fear of people). Then on the Day of Judgment Allah (Azza wa Jalla) will ask him: What prevented you from speaking about such and such a thing? he will ask. He will reply: Fear of people, and Allah will say: You should have feared me first (not of people).
4145-) - “. According to what is narrated from Jarir (bin Abdillah al-Beceli) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There is not a people among whom sins are committed, they are stronger than those who commit sins, and although they have the advantage of deterring (from evil), Allah does not prevent (sin) but Allah does not punish all of them (that is, Allah does not punish criminals and prevent them). punishes all those who do not). "
4146-) - “. According to what is reported from Jabir (radiyallahu anh): When the immigrants (that is, those who migrated to Abyssinia) returned to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said (to them) the strange things you saw in his country. won't you tell me?) he said. Again, a group of immigrants said: O Messenger of Allah! (One day) we were sitting. At that moment, one of the elders of their nuns passed us carrying a large water jug on his head. A little later, he passed one of their youth. The young man put one of his hands between her shoulders and pushed her away. The woman fell to her knees and broke her testicles. Then when the woman got up, she looked back at the young man and said: O cruel! You will know (what crime you have committed) tomorrow when Allah puts them on the platform and gathers those before and after (that is, all people) and they tell about what the owners of the hands and feet have committed (that is, when the great court is established on the Day of Judgment), tomorrow in the presence of Allah my situation and your situation. “You will know how,” he said. said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said (at that time): he told the truth, the woman told the truth. How can Allah sanctify (purify from impurities and sins) an ummah whose rights are not taken from the strong of the weak?)
4147-) - “. According to what is narrated from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The most virtuous thing is to say a word of truth (enjoining good or forbidding evil) in the presence of an oppressing head of state.)"
4148-) - “. According to what was narrated from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh): A man next to the first congregation opposed the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “Rasûlullah! Which jihad (type) is more virtuous? said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not answer his question. Then, when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) threw a stone at the second cemre, the man asked him (the same thing). The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (again) remained silent and did not answer. Later, when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) threw the stones of the Aqaba cemre, he put his foot in the stirrup to get on his mount. (By the way) : Where is the one asking? The man said: O Messenger of Allah. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: virtuous jihad is to speak a truthful word (enjoining good or forbidding evil) in the presence of a cruel ruler."
4149-) - “. According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh): (When bin al-Hakam was the governor of Medina-i Münevvere), he took out the pulpit (prayer) on an Eid day. Then he began to recite the sermon before the Eid prayer. Then a man said: Marwan! You opposed the sunnah. You took the pulpit (from the mosque to the prayer hall) today. However, the pulpit (from the masjid to the place of prayer for the Eid prayer) was not taken out and you started the sermon before the Eid prayer. However, the khutbah was not read before the Eid prayer (that is, it was read after the prayer), he said. Thereupon, Abu Said (i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh) said: The man fulfilled his duty. (Because) I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) that he said: If he sees a sinner (something contrary to religion) and is able to change it with his hand, let him change it with his hand. If he cannot afford it, let him change it with his tongue. If he is unable to do so, let him change it with his heart, and changing it with the heart is the weakest of faith (fruit).
4150-) - “. From Abu Umayya al-Shabani (radiyallahu anh); He went to Abu Salabe al-Husheni (radiyallahu anh) and said: What do you say about this verse (the meaning of it)? I asked. Him: Which verse? When I say: Believers! Take care of yourself. When you are on the path of guidance, no one who goes astray can harm you. "(Maide 105), I said. Abu Salabe al-Husheni said: You asked a person who is aware of this verse (the meaning of it). (Because) I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about it. They said, "You enjoin good things to one another and forbid one another from bad things. In fact, you (O Muslim!) are the ones who are obeyed stinginess, desires obeyed, worldliness preferred (to religious affairs) and every opinion (not the evidences of Shariah)". ) when you see that you like your opinion and see a situation in which you are not able to do so, look after your own soul (that is, then the responsibility of ordering good and forbidding evil will be removed from you). Those who do good deeds in those days (at another time) will have as much reward as fifty men who do the same for each deed.)
4151-) - “. From Enes bin Malik- (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): Messenger of Allah! When do we relinquish our duty to enjoin good things and forbid bad things? it was said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): when what appeared in the previous ummahs also emerges within you. We: Messenger of Allah! What has emerged in the nations before us? we asked. It (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) .- It happens to those of you who are younger (and inexperienced). Adultery-prostitution (by spreading) happens (even among those who are older) and your knowledge disgrace (characterless, despicable ones) also happens.) Zayd said: The explanation of the meaning of the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) command "and knowledge will be in your disgrace" is "when knowledge is in the people who are corrupt."
4152-) - “. According to what is reported from Huzeyfe (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is not appropriate (permissible) for a person to humiliate himself. Companions: how is it humiliating? they asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "He will pursue a calamity that is not enough."
4153-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): On the Day of Judgment, a servant will undoubtedly question him. In fact: When you see the situation contrary to religion, what prevents you from being against and removing it? he will ask. Then, when Allah commands a servant with his (defense) evidence (and grace), the servant says (in defense of himself): Lord! I hoped for your mercy (indulgence) and was afraid of people (that is why I chose to remain silent in the face of an anti-religious situation). "
4154-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Allah gives the oppressor a period of time (he does not punish them immediately). Then, when he caught him, he would not let him go again.) He then read the verse: "While the people of the countries are oppressing, this is how your Lord catches them when they catch them." (Hud 102). "
4155-) - “... From Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) turned to us and said: “Community of immigrants! There are five things that when you become obsessed with them (no good remains). I seek refuge in Allah from your reaching those (period) things (these are these things): when adultery - prostitution emerges in the nation and finally that nation commits this crime openly, taun disease and diseases that did not occur in the nations that came before them spread. and every nation that does not weigh the scales will be punished with famine, financial difficulties and the cruelty of their ruler. Every nation that refuses to pay their zakat will definitely be prevented from raining (punished by drought) and they would not be rained if there were no animals. For every nation that breaks its covenant and the covenant of his Messenger (that is, the treaty they made with the enemy), Allah will surely inflict an enemy who is not one of their own, and the enemy will take some of that nation's possessions. As long as their imams (i.e. statesmen) do not act according to the Book of Allah and choose what works for them from the decrees that Allah has revealed (i.e., unless they apply other provisions), Allah will punish them with punishments such as inner strife, corruption and anarchy. "
4156-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Malik al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Some people from my ummah will definitely drink alcohol and call it another name. Instruments will be played at their head and singer women will sing songs. May Allah sink them to the ground and make them into monkeys and pigs (or Allah will sink them to the ground and turn them into monkeys and pigs). "
4157-) - “... Bera. According to what is reported from bin Azib (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); Allah curses and cursers curse), saying: (Cursed are animals that walk on the ground),
4158-) - “... According to what is reported from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "No, nothing increases life expectancy except doing good deeds and maintaining good relations with relatives." Nothing but prayer reverses fate. Undoubtedly, a man is deprived of his sustenance because of his sin.)
4159-) - “... From Sa'd bin Abi Vakkas (radiyallahu anh); He said: O Messenger of Allah! I said which people would be more severe in trouble. He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): then, in order (in the sight of Allah), those who are the highest in rank. Ash; He is in trouble according to the state of his piety (strength and weakness). If he is strong in his religion, his trouble will be severe, and if there is laxity or weakness in his piety, he will be in trouble according to the degree of his piety. Bela does not leave the servant (does not leave him). Finally, when the servant (he is purified from his sins with the troubles he has suffered) wanders on the earth with no sin left on him, trouble leaves him.
4160-) - “... from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) I entered him while he was in bed due to fever. Then, when I put my hand on him, I felt his heat on my hands on the cover and said: Messenger of Allah! “I am amazed at the intensity of his fire,” I said. He said: (We (the prophets) are like this. The trouble will be many times greater for us, and the reward for us will be many times greater). Me: O Messenger of Allah! Which people are in the worst trouble? I asked. He: commanded. Me: then who? said. He: righteous (i.e., pious people who follow religious orders and stay away from sins). Any one of them would be so addicted to poverty that he could find nothing but his cloak, and any of them would be genuinely happy to be in trouble just as one of you is happy. ) "
4161-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: It is as if I am looking at the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) while he is telling the state of one of the prophets (to us in the past). That prophet was beaten by his own people (leaving him in blood). But he (the prophet) was wiping the blood from his face and saying: (O Lord! Forgive my people! Because they do not know). "
4162-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: We are more worthy of doubt (about how the dead will be resurrected) than Ibrahim (Alayhis Salam): Behold, Ibrahim, my Lord! “Show me how to raise the dead,” he said. And Allah said: Or did you not believe? he commanded. He said: No, I believed it, but (I wanted it) so that my heart would be satisfied – it would bleed and settle down. May he have mercy on Lut (Aleyhisselam). In fact, he took refuge in a very firm refuge (in Allah) (in order to protect his guests from the evil intentions of his people). If I had stayed in the dungeon for as long as Yusuf (Aleyhisselam) stayed, I would (immediately) respond to the inviter (who came to take him out of the dungeon) (i.e., I would not say, like Yusuf: Let's get out of the dungeon like that, even if it is investigated and understood that the crime charged to me is slander.) "
4163-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: When the day (war) came, the Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) tooth broke, his head was split, and blood started flowing over his (blessed) face. Then He said: How can a people who paint their faces with blood while a prophet calls his people to Allah (the way) prosper (avoid punishment)? He began to wipe the blood from his face. Then Allah (Azza wa Jalla) revealed the verse: "You have nothing (to punish them or to forgive them)." —Al-i imran 128 —
4164-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): One day, when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was attacked by some of the people of Mecca and he was sitting in a sad state, painted with blood, Gabriel (Aleyhisselam) came to him and said: happened? she asked. He said: These polytheists did (such) and did (such)). Gabriel (to Him): would you like me to show you a sign (indicating your high rank and lofty honor) to alleviate troubles? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Show me. Thereupon, Gabriel (Aleyhisselam) looked at a (planted) tree beyond the stream and said, "Call that tree (next to you). The Messenger of God called the tree. The tree came and stood in front of him. Gabriel said to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): Tell him to go back. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) also spoke to the tree, and the tree went back until it reached its old place. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: a sign is enough for me.) "
4165-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Count all those who say that they are. We: Messenger of Allah! Are you afraid that evil will be done to us even though we are between six hundred and seven hundred (large congregation)? we said. On top of that, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: You do not know. It is hoped that you will be exposed to some troubles.) Huzayfa said: Then, so much trouble came upon us that a man from us (even) started to perform his prayers only in secret. "
4166-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubayy bin Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said the following in a narration from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): When he was taken away, he smelled a nice smell: Gabriel! What is this beautiful smell?) he asked. Gabriel (Aleyhisselam) also means: maşita (the woman who combs women's hair well), the smell of her two sons and her husband's grave. The beginning (and the reason) for this was as follows: Khidr (Aleyhisselam) was from the notables of the Israelites and there was a priest sitting in his monastery on the road route. Khidr (as he passed by) would appear before the priest and teach him Islam. Then, when Khidr reached the age of puberty, his father married him to a woman. Khidr also taught the woman (Islam) and took a word from the woman so that she would not announce it to anyone. Khidr did not approach women. Khidr divorced the woman after a while. After a while, Hızır's father married another woman. Khidr also taught this woman (Islam) and took a promise from her not to inform anyone (of the situation). Then one of these two women kept a secret. But the other made a revelation against Khidr's Islam and his propaganda on this subject (thus breaking his covenant). Thereupon, Khidr escaped from there and finally reached an island in the sea. Two men gathering wood (on the island) came from the opposite direction and saw Khidr. One of them did not tell anyone that they had seen him. But the other man disclosed it and said: I saw Khidr. Who saw him with you? When the question was asked, the man said: So-and-so (he saw him with me). Then that person was also asked. But that person hid that he saw Khidr (that is, he said he did not see). There was also a decree in their religion to kill a liar. Then the man who kept the secret married the woman who kept the secret. Then, while this woman was combing the hair of one of Pharaoh's daughters, the comb suddenly fell. The woman cursed: Pharaoh, be destroyed. The girl went and told her father. The woman had two sons and a husband. Pharaoh (sensing that this family was Muslim) continued to insist on his wife and husband that they should convert from their religion (Pharaoh's religion) by sending news to them. But they refused (leaving their religion). Finally, Pharaoh said to the husband and wife: I will definitely kill you two. The woman and her husband said (to Pharaoh): If you kill us, we want you to bury us both in a grave as a favor for us. Fir'avn also did (killing them and burying them in the same grave), he said. Then, when the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was taken away at night, he smelled a nice smell and asked Jibril (what happened). Jibril also reported (this) to him. "
4167-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Its abundance is accompanied by the magnitude of the calamity. When Allah loves a people, he certainly tests them (with troubles, calamities and troubles). Now, whoever consents to a trial (trouble and calamity), Allah's approval (and abundant reward) will be for that person. And whoever gets angry (does not consent to the divine decree) (the troubles and calamities he is tested with) is Allah's wrath (and punishment) on him.)
4168-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "The reward of a believer who enters among himself and is patient with their oppression is greater than the reward of a believer who does not enter among the people and is not patient with their oppression.)"
4169-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There is something that whoever has it finds the taste of faith (ravi Bindar said: the stillness of faith): a person who loves a man only for Allah's sake, and Allah and His Messenger are dearest to him than anything else." a person and a person who, after Allah has saved him from unbelief, is more beloved to be thrown into the fire (while alive in the world) than to be disbelieved (that is, he prefers being thrown alive into the fire rather than unbelief). "
4170-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu'd-Derda (radiyallahu anh); He said: My friend Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave me the following advice: do not associate anything with Allah even if you are cut to pieces and burned (in the fire) (that is, do not show the sign of unbelief even in form to avoid the danger of life) and do not perform any obligatory prayers. don't even let go. For, whoever leaves an obligatory prayer intentionally (without any religious excuse such as forgetting), dhimma (i.e. divine guarantee) will be far from him. Don't drink alcohol, because alcohol is the key to every evil.)
4171-) - “... from Muawiya (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): and there is nothing left in the world except fitna.)
4172-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Deceiving years will come on you with the abundance of rain but the lack of productivity. At that time, the liar will be confirmed, the right man will be denied, the treacherous man will be trusted, the reliable man will be accused of treason, and the rueful man will have a say in public affairs. (He answered the question: What is Ruwaybida?: An unimportant, little-informed man.) "
4173-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "I swear by (Allah) in whose hand (the power) is, that the man stopped by the grave and was draped over it not because of religion, but simply because of the trouble he had suffered, and said: Oh, I wish I was in the place of the owner of this grave. The world will not come to an end until he makes a wish.)
4174-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "You will definitely get rid of dry dates, just as dry dates are removed from their nameless ones." Thus, the good ones (die) will surely go, and the evil ones will undoubtedly remain. Here, if you can (die) at that time, die (that is, it is better to die than to live). "
4175-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, he said: And as the world goes on, it will turn away (true Muslims) about sticking to the sunnah. , people's stinginess and passion will increase more and more. Doomsday will come only to the evil of people. The Mahdi (that is, the person who is on the right path in all respects) is only Jesus, son of Mary.)
4176-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) joined his two fingers (which are the shahada finger and the middle finger): On the Day of Judgment, I was swept away like these two fingers ( that is, I was sent as a prophet). "
4177-) - “... from Huzeyfe bin Esid (radiyallahu anh); He said: "Day) while we (companions) were discussing (among ourselves) the issue of the Day of Judgment, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) came down from a room above us and said: Doomsday will not come until the omen occurs: Dajjal, smoke and the rising of the sun from the west.) "
4178-) - “... From Avf bin Malik al-Eshcai (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) when he was in a leather (manufactured) tent in the Battle of Tabuk, I went to him and sat in front of the door of the tent. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Enter Ya Awf. Me: completely (let me enter)? I said, O Messenger of Allah. He commanded: (enter) completely. Then: Avf said, remember six things that will occur intermittently when the Doomsday is approaching (the following are its portents): One of them is my death. Avf said: When he said that, I was devastated by my intense sadness. Then He: That: This is one. Then (second) conquest of Jerusalem. Then (the third) is a disease that will occur in you and Allah will martyr your family and yourselves with it and cleanse your deeds. Then (fourth) you will have (many) goods inside you. Even if a man is given a hundred dinars (gold) (for free), he will start to get angry (underestimating this). (Fifth) There will be such a discord among you that there will be no Muslim house that he will not enter. (Sixth) then there will be a peace between you and Beni Asfer (called Greek). Afterwards, they will betray you by breaking the peace treaty and will march against you under the flags of eighty commanders, with twelve thousand men under each flag.) "
4179-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe bin al-Yeman (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The Day of Judgment will not come until you kill your imam (head of state), fight each other with your swords (that is, unless there is a civil war between you) and those of you who are evil in your world (by confiscating your kingdom and property) become heirs.) "
4180-) - “... from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); He said: One day (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went out to an open place for the people (to benefit). At that time, a man came to him and said: Messenger of Allah! “When will the apocalypse come?” he asked. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The person who is asked a question about the matter is not more knowledgeable than the one who asks the question. But I will tell you about the portents of the Doomsday: When the concubine gives birth to her mistress, this is one of the portents of the Doomsday. When bare feet and bare suits become the head of people, this (situation) is one of the portents of Doomsday. When sheep herders compete with each other in building high buildings, this is one of the portents of the apocalypse. The time of the Day of Judgment is included in five things that no one knows but Allah.) After that, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the 34th verse of the chapter. "
4181-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: "Please, I will narrate to you a hadith that I heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) that no one after me will narrate it to you (hearing it from the Messenger of Allah). I heard that hadith (personally) from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (with my ear): the removal of knowledge, the emergence of ignorance, the spread of adultery, the (public) drinking of alcohol, and the fact that 50 women are the only male ministers. (the decrease in their number) and the (majority) of women remaining are among the portents of the Day of Judgment.)
4182-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "The Hour will not come until the river brings out a mountain under it. People will (clash) be killed over that gold, and nine out of ten people will be killed.)
4183-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The Hour will not come until it is overflowing, strife does not occur and there is more here.) Those present there: What is it? They asked: O Messenger of Allah. He said three times: (It is killing. It is killing. It is killing). "
4184-) - “... from Ziyad bin Labid (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) explaining something: This happens at the time of the disappearance (disappearance) of knowledge. Me: O Messenger of Allah! How does science go (disappear) when we read the Qur'an, have our children read it, and our children will have their children read it until the Day of Judgment? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) : As I lose you (that is, surprise you) Ziyad! I would certainly see you as one of the men who knew fiqh best in Madinah. Do these Jews and Christians read the Torah and the Bible and not act on anything from the provisions in these two books? commanded.)"
4185-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe bin al-Yeman (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "As the embroidery wears out, so does Islam. Even what is fasting, what is prayer, what is nusuk (i.e. pilgrimage and umrah) and what is charity will not be known. The Book (Quran) of Allah (Azza wa Jalla) will also be taken away in one night, and not a single verse of it will be left on earth (Or the work of getting old and being erased will be done by Allah (Azza wa Jalla) in one night. It will spread to the Qur'an, which is its book, and not a single verse of it will remain on earth.) There will be some people, consisting of very old men and very old women, and this word "La ilaha illallah" (hahaha) will remain for us, our fathers. When bin al-Yeman narrated this hadith, Sila (who was present) said to him: What is prayer, what is fasting, what is nusuk (that is, pilgrimage and umrah) and what is charity? ? "La ilaha illallah" doesn't help them, he said, while they didn't know. Huzeyfe left Sıla's word unanswered. Then Sila repeated this word against Huzeyfe three times. Each time, Huzeyfe left his word unanswered and did not look at him. Finally, after the third time, Huzeyfe returned to Sila and said three times: Sila! The word tawhid will save them from the (eternal) fire, he said. "
4186-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There will be days when it is close to its breaking: knowledge is removed in those days, ignorance descends in those days, and there are many days in those days. Here is the case of killing.) "
4187-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa (al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There are days ahead of you, when ignorance is reduced, knowledge is removed and increased in those days. Companions, O Messenger of Allah! What is here? they asked. (He: He is a murderer (to kill people)), he said. "
4188-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): He approaches. Knowledge is deficient, severe stinginess is put into the hearts, strife arises and it multiplies here, he said.) Companions: O Messenger of Allah! What is here? they asked. (He: He is a murderer (to kill people)), he said. "
4189-) - “... from Huzeyfe (bin el-Yamin) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave us two hadiths (about entrustment): I saw one of them (the situation he reported). I am also waiting for the situation reported by the other): (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) told us that the trust descends to the ebb of the hearts of men (Tanafisi said: That is, to the depths of men's hearts). And the Qur'an was revealed. We got information from the Quran and we got information from the Sunnah. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) also told us about the removal of the trust (that is, its removal from the hearts): He sleeps (at night) and the trust is (taken) from his heart (while he is asleep), and the next day the trace of the trust becomes like a black stain (tiny). Then the man (again at night) sleeps his sleep. (This time while asleep) the relic is taken from his heart and the next day the trace of the relic becomes like the trace of a bubble on the palm of the worker shaking an ax. (This bubble) is like the bubble formed by the ember that you roll on your own feet. You see it swollen (i.e. you imagine a beneficial improvement). However, there is nothing (useful) in that bubble.) Huzeyfe (to explain the situation) took a handful of pebbles and rolled them on the part between his kneecap and foot. (Then Huzayfa continued his hadith narration:) The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: After they were removed from their hearts, people will go shopping in the morning. However, no one will be willing to pay the trust (and the number of trustworthy people will decrease) as follows: It will be said: There is a safe man among his sons and so, and it will be said in favor of a man: He is neither wise, nor heroic, how gentle he is. However, there is not as much faith as a mustard seed in the heart of a man (who is praised like this). he said by Allah:) I lived in such a time (at that time) that I would not look at which of you I was shopping with (that is, I would not worry). Because if the person I am dealing with was a Muslim, his Islam would definitely have prevented him from betraying me, and if he was a Jew or a Christian, the judge would have prevented him from betraying me. But today I can't trade with anyone other than so-and-so and so-and-so. "
4190-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he (Azza wa Jalla) wishes to destroy a servant, he strips it of his hair. Then, when you remove the haya from him, you will come across that person (everyone) but very abominable. Then, only when you come across him even though he is very abusive, the trust is taken away from him (of his heart). And when that man is taken away from his (your heart) trust, you will only come across him as a treason and even though he is famous for treason in the eyes of everyone. Only when you come across him as treacherous and famous for treason, mercy will be drawn from his heart. And when mercy is taken from his heart, you will come across him only as expelled and cursed. Then, only when you come across him as an expelled curse, the bond of Islam is removed from him.)
4191-) - “... from Huzeyfe bin Esid Abi Seriha (radiyallahu anh); He said: "Day) while we (companions) were discussing (among ourselves) about (their state) on the Day of Judgment, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came down from a room (above us) and came to us and said: Doomsday will not come until ten great signs occur: The sun will rise from the west. , Antichrist, Duhan, Dabbe (tu'l-Ard), Gog and Magog, Îsa bin Meryem's (descended from the sky) emergence, three Husufs (that is, the earth), one in the east, one in the west and one in the Arabian peninsula. The collapse of Ebyene) and such a fire that comes out of the furthest place of Ebyene's Eden country and sends people to the Mahshar (earth) that when people go to night, it also sleeps with them, and when people sleep at noon, it sleeps with them.)
4192-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Hurry to do good deeds before six things come; The rising of the sun from the west, Duhan, Dabbetul-Arz, the Antichrist, (death) and public service (to be given to you) for each of you.)
4193-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: His portents are after two hundred. ) "
4194-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: My ummah is in five layers. (the first) forty years (those who are in) have goodness and piety. Then those who followed them until the year one hundred and twenty were those who had mercy on each other and had good relations with each other. Then those who came after them until the year one hundred and sixty were those who turned their backs on each other and broke off good relations with each other. After that, killing (each other) is killing (revolution). (At that time) salvation, salvation (ask) "
4195-) - “... According to what is reported from Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: My ummah is divided into five strata: Each stratum (lasts) forty years. My rank and that of my Companions are those who have knowledge and belief. When it comes to the second layer belonging to the fortieth year and the eightieth year, they are the owners of goodness and piety.) Then he narrated the like of this (above) hadith. "
4196-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “In the near future (some sinful people) the messiah (turning into the image of an animal), sinking to the ground and being stoned (torment) will happen.”
4197-) - “... Sahl bin Sa'd (es-Saidi) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) reported that he heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: ) will be turned over and stoned (punishment).) "
4198-) - “... According to what is reported from Nafi (radiyallahu anh), a man (one day) came to Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhu) and conveyed the greeting of someone by saying: The man greets you. (But) Ibn 'Umar (responding to this): The news reached me that the man had converted something that was not religious. If that man has truly invented (an innovation), do not send greetings from me to him. Because I heard the following command from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) that the messiah (turning into the image of an animal), sinking to the ground and stoning (punishment) will occur in my community (or this nation). This (punishment) is about those who deny destiny.)"
4199-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (In my ummah, sinking to the ground will be the messiah (turning into an animal image) and stoning (torment).)
4200-) - “... From Abdullah bin Safvan (bin Umayya bin Khalaf) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: His mother) Hafsa (radiy-Allâhu anha) informed me that she heard the following hadith from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): At times, an army will certainly intend to destroy this Ka'ba. Finally, when that mob came to the place called Beyda, their middle layer sank to the ground and the leading ones shouted to the ones behind them. Then they too sink to the ground. There will be no one left of them except the one who will run away and tell them about them. ) bin Safwan) said: Then when the army of Haccac (bin Yusuf) came, we thought that that crowd was this army. Then (when it was understood that this army was not that mob because it was not sunk to the ground), a man said (to me): I bear witness that you did not lie on behalf of Hafsa (radiy-Allâhu anha) and that Hafsa (radiy-Allâhu anha) did not lie on behalf of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). said. "
4201-) - “... According to what is reported from Safiyya (radiyallahu anha), (the mother of the believers); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: They will not stop fighting to destroy this Ka’ba. Finally, when an army went to fight (for this purpose) and reached the place called Beyda (or a flat land with no vegetation), those who were in the front and those behind were sunk to the ground, and those in the middle could not be saved (that is, they were all sunk to the ground). he said:) Me: If anyone among them is taken by force (what will happen to him)? I asked. He said: (On the Day of Judgment) He will resurrect them according to their intentions. "
4202-) - “... (Mother of the believers) Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha) reported: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) talked about the army to be sunk. Thereupon, Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha) said: O Messenger of Allah! In that army there could be someone who was forced (to join them) (what will become of him)? she asked. He said: (They will be resurrected according to their intentions (on the Day of Judgment).) "
4203-) - "... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The seal of Sulayman bin Dawud and the staff of Moses bin Imran (Aleyhimessalam) were accompanied by them. He comes out, brightens the believer's face with his staff, and stamps the seal on the unbeliever's nose. (This is how he will distinguish between the believer and the unbeliever) so that the people of the tribe will gather together: O believer! He will say: O unbeliever! will say. ... Abu'l-Hasan al-Kattan narrated the like of this hadith from Hammad bin Salama with the issuance of ..... and once narrated (the last sentence): His people will gather) this: O Believer! and this: O Kafir! he will say)"
4205-) - “... From Abdullah bin Burayde's father (Bureyde bin al-Husayb) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (one day) took me to a place in near Badiye. I saw that the nan around it is a dry place. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He will come out of this place). TV&ret is mixed in width and length. Ibn Burayda said: A few years later, my pilgrim Father (the width and length of that field) was an assmi Mi. I saw that that wand is this and that with this wand of mine. "
4206-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: Doomsday will not come until he rises from the place where he sank. When it rises (from where it sets) and people see it, (all) people on earth will believe. then, it is faith that will not benefit anyone who has not believed before.)
4207-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The first of the signs that will come out of the place where the sun sets is the rising of the sun and the Dabba's coming out (from the ground) to people in the morning. He said to Zur:) Abdullah (bin Amr bin al-As) He said: Now, whichever of these two signs comes before the other, the other is close to him. He said to Zur:) Abdullah (bin Amr bin al-As) said: I think the first sign (of these two signs) is that it comes out of the place where the sun sets. "
4208-) - “... According to what is reported from Safwan bin Assal (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There is a door on the side of the place where the sun sets, which has been opened (in condition) a distance of seventy years. Until the sun rises from that side, that door will always be open for repentance. When the sun rises by that door, the faith (of that day) will not benefit anyone who has not believed before or has not gained any good in their faith.)
4209-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe (bin el-Yeman) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: His left eye is disabled, his right is missing. It has a heaven and a hell with it. His hell is a paradise, and his paradise is a hell.)
4210-) - “... From Abu Bakr-i Siddiq (radiyallahu anh); He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) declared to us that the Dajjal would emerge from a place called Hurasan in the east, and that peoples (round, wide, with high horns) would follow him like shields with their faces covered with leather. "
4211-) - “... From Al-Mugire bin Shu'be (radiyallahu anh); He said: No one asked the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) more questions about the Dajjal than I did. (In his own narration, the narrator Ibn Numayr said "more difficult than my questions" instead of "more questions"). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: What will you ask about him?). I said: (that is, the people or the People of the Book) say: Surely, food and drink (materials) are only found with Dajjal. He said: He is better than this (what he tells) in the sight of Allah. ) "
4212-) - “... from Fatima bint-i Kays (radiyallahu anha); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prayed one day (in the masjid) and went up to the pulpit (after the prayer). Before that, he would never climb the pulpit except on Friday. In this respect, it was difficult for the congregation to ascend to the pulpit (caused agitation). Some were standing, some were sitting. He gestured to the congregation to sit down and said: I did not sit here (gathering you) neither for favor (such as booty) that would benefit you, nor because of fear (which requires taking precautions against the enemy). Velakin Temim-i Dari came to me and gave me such a news that the news prevented my sleep at noon because of the joy and the brightness of my eyes. I also loved to spread the joy of your prophet over you. As you know, an uncle of Temim-i Dari told me the following news: (While they were sailing on a ferry), the wind forced them to take shelter in an island they did not know. They got on the boats of the ferry and went to the island. Then they came across something black (animal) with very dense (or very long) eyelashes and asked it = what are you? they said. He said: I am Cessase. They said: tell (something). Cessase: I am not in a position to give you any news or to ask you (anything). But you've seen that building. go there. Because there is a man in that building who is very eager for you to inform him and to inform you, he said. Thereupon, they reached the building and entered the man. There they met an old man who was fiercely bonded, expressing his sadness and very complacent. The man asked them: where are you from? he asked. Them . From Damascus, they said. Man: What did the Arabs do? he asked. They: We are a group of Arabs. What are you asking? they said. Man, what did that man (that is, the Prophet) who came out of you do? They asked: (That Prophet) did good. He fought with a tribe, and as a result, Allah made him victorious over that tribe. Today the Arabs' business is tidy. They said that they all have one God, one religion. Man : what did the spring do? he asked. They are: a spring. They said that the people water their crops with that spring water and they extract water from it for their lands. Adam : What did the date palm groves between and Beysan do? he asked. They said: The year bears fruit. Man: what did he do to the lake? he asked. They said: It carries it to the lake shores because of its abundance. Ravi said: After the man groaned three times, breathing deeply, on this news: If I get rid of this (I am tied to) tie, I will not leave a place that I will not step on with these two feet, Except Taybe (that is, Medina-i Münevvere). Because he told Taybe (to enter) that there is no way (I cannot enter there). (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (After conveying this news about the Dajjal): My joy is up to this point. This town is Taybe. I swear by (Allah) in whose hand is my soul: At the beginning of every narrow and wide road in Madinah, and at the beginning of every plain and dafein, there is an angel waiting by drawing his sword until the Day of Judgment.) "
4213-) - “... From Nevvas bin Sem'an al-Kilabi (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) talked about the Dajjal one morning and he raised and lowered him, and we even thought that he was on the edge of the date gardens (of Medina-i Münevvere). Then, when we arrived at the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) in the evening, he understood the rush we had and asked: What is it? (You are in a hurry?). We said: Messenger of Allah! You mentioned Dajjal in the morning and you raised and lowered him so much that we thought he was on the edge of the date garden, we said. Thereupon, He: the other one worries me more for you: (Because) if he comes out while I am inside you, I will defeat him in front of you, I will expel him, and if he comes out while I am not inside, everyone will try to defeat him by defending their own self. And Allah is my caliph (protector and helper) over every Muslim. Antichrist is a young man with very curly hair. His eye remains intact (but crippled). I seem to liken him to Abdu'l-Uzza bin Katan. Whoever among you sees him, let him recite the first verses of the chapter of al-Kahf against him (so that he can be sure of his fitna). He will go astray between Damascus and Iraq and will cause mischief and mischief quickly left and right. O servants of Allah, be steadfast (in religion). We: Messenger of Allah! How long does it stay on earth? we asked. Him: day. One day is like a year. A day is like a month. One day, like a Friday (that is, a week) - Other days are like your days.) We said: The Messenger of Allah! So, in a day like a year, will one day's prayer be enough for us? we said. He said: Calculate a normal day amount for each day (daily prayers). Nevvas said: We: what is his speed on earth? we said. He said: (The wind is like a cloud blowing behind him) and (continue with his command) (Dajjal will come to a people and invite them (to accept him as a god). And it will rain on the ground. The antichrist will then return to another people and invite them. But that people will reject his word. He will also leave them. However, a famine will befall that people and they will have nothing (in terms of property). Then the Antichrist will come to a ruin and will call out to him: Take out your treasures and leave. The treasures of the ruin are the bee brains of honey bees. will fall right behind them as they watch. Then the Antichrist will invite a very young man (to believe in him) and (when the young man refuses his invitation, Dajjal will be angry) he will strike him with a sword and cut him in two, throw each piece to the target distance that an arrow can reach (that is, the distance between the two pieces is the distance between the place where the arrow is shot and the target it can reach). will be). Then he will call the young man. He will resurrect and turn to him with a bright face and a smile (that is, he will want to say: I am more aware of your perversion now, and the Antichrist will not be able to touch that young person again). While the antichrist and the people are in this state, Allah will suddenly send Jesus (Aleyhisselam). Jesus (Aleyhisselam) will descend next to the white minaret in the east of Damascus, in a painted suit, with his hands on the wings of two angels. When he tilts his head (in front of him), his head (sweat) will drip, and when he raises his head, silver particles (made like pearls) will roll down from his head. It is impossible for any unbeliever who smells the smell of his breath not to die. His breath will reach as far as his eye can see. Jesus (Aleyhisselam) will go to the Antichrist and finally catch up with Lud's gate and kill him. Then, the Prophet of Allah, Isa (Aleyhisselam), will come to a people whom Allah has protected (from the Dajjal) and wipe their faces (that is, he will rub his hands on their faces while they are putting his hand on them or he will save them from fear and distress) and will tell them about their rank in Paradise. While they were in this state, suddenly Allah said to Jesus: Jesus! I have brought out such a number of my servants that no one is able to fight them. You will take my servants to Tur and protect them there collectively, and Allah will send Gog and Magog. They will infiltrate rapidly from every hill, as Allah has commanded. These swift pioneers will stop by Lake Tabariyya and drink (consume) the water in it. Then those who are behind will stop by (that lake) and say: There was definitely water in this lake once. Isa, the prophet of Allah, and his companions will also be stranded (on the mountain of Tur). In fact, an ox's head to one of them would be more acceptable to one of you than a hundred gold coins today. Then, Allah's prophet Isa (Aleyhisselam) and his friends will pray to Allah. And Allah will send a camel wolf that will haunt Gog and Magog on their necks. And so Gog and Magog will die together, just like a person dies. The Prophet of Allah Isa and his companions will descend (from the mountain of Tur), but they will not find a place on earth that is not filled with the smell of their carcasses and their blood. Thereupon, Isa (Aleyhisselam) and his friends will pray to Allah Subhanahu (for cleaning the earth from them). And Allah will send some birds with necks similar to those of buht (kind) camels, and the birds will carry the flakes and throw them wherever Allah wills. Then Allah will send them such a rain that neither an adobe building nor a tent (nothing) will be able to hide (protect) from that rain, so that the rain will wash everything and make it shine like a mirror. Then it will be said to the earth: Finish your fruit and bring your blessings back. On that day, the congregation will eat pomegranate. That pomegranate will feed them and they will be shaded under its peel. God will give such abundance to milk that it has just given birth. The camel will suffice for a large congregation, a newly born cow will suffice for a tribe, and a newly bred sheep and goat will suffice for a congregation consisting of relatives. Then, while they are in this state, Allah will send them a beautiful wind, which will catch them under their armpits and take the souls of all Muslims. Other people will go on and on about sexual relations in public, like donkeys copulating publicly. Here, the Hour will come to them,) he said. "
4214-) - “... According to what is narrated from Nevvas bin Sem'an (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: They will light fire for seven years from the bows, arrows and shields of Gog and Magog (which they used as weapons).
4215-) - “... From Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave a speech to us once. Most of his speech was an order that told us about the Antichrist and offended us. He created a descendant of Adam (Aleyhisselam) by His command, and there was a greater strife than the strife of the Dajjal on earth. Every prophet sent by Allah inadvertently warned his ummah from the affliction of the Dajjal. I am the last of the prophets. You, too, are the last of the nations, and he (Dajjal) has no remedy and will appear in you (in your period). If he comes out while I am among you, I will defeat him for every Muslim. If he comes out after me, everyone will try to defeat him by defending their own self. And Allah is my caliph (protector and helper) over every Muslim. Undoubtedly, he will go astray between Damascus and Iraq and will spread mischief left and right. O servants of Allah! Now be steadfast (in religion). Now I will describe (introduce) him to you in such a way that no prophet has described (introduced) him in that way. He will say first: I am a prophet. However, there is no prophet after me. Then he will make a second claim and say: I am your Lord. However, you cannot see your Lord until you die, and he (wicked) is a'ver (in other words, his eyes are disabled). However, your Lord is not a'var. "Unbeliever" is written between the two eyes of the antichrist. It is read by every believer with or without authorship. Undoubtedly, the presence of a Paradise and a Hell with it is one of his temptations. He will order the Ashnsini, and the ground will grow plants on this order. Finally, the sheep and cattle of that tribe will return from the pasture in the evening, more fat than ever, with the biggest flanks and the fullest breasts with milk. Except for Mecca and Medina, there will be no place on earth where the Dajjal has not set foot and is not sovereign. When he wants to reach Mecca and Medina whichever way he wants to reach, the angels will certainly come before him with bare swords (return them). Finally, he will descend next to the zurayb-i ahmer (red mountain), near the end point of the salty, barren land that has no plants. Then the city of Madinah will shake three times with its inhabitants, after which there will be no one left of the hypocritical men and women (in Madinah), and all of them will go to him, and Medina will throw out the filth (that is, evil people) just as the blacksmith's bellows removes the dirt and rust of iron, and Umm Sharik bint-i Ebi'l-Aker: Messenger of Allah! So where will the Arabs be that day? she asked. He: that day is few and most of them will be in Bayt al-Maqdis (Jerusalem). Their imam will (will be) a righteous man. While the imams of Him (in Masjid al-Aqsa) will come forward and lead them in the morning prayer, Isa bin Maryam (Aleyhisselam) will descend on them in the morning. Thereupon, the imam will begin to walk backwards so that Jesus (Aleyhisselam) will step forward and lead the congregation in prayer. But Jesus (Aleyhisselam) put his hand between his shoulders and said: Get ahead and pray. Because the iqama was brought for you, he will say. Thereupon, their imam will lead them in prayer, then when the imam finishes the prayer, Jesus (Aleyhisselam) will say: open, and the door will open. Antichrist will be in front of the door, accompanied by seventy thousand Jews. All of them will be armed with fancy swords and green shawls. When the antichrist looks at Jesus (Aleyhisselam), he will melt like salt dissolves in water and will start to run away. Jesus (Aleyhisselam) will also say (to him): I have such a blow that you will not be able to get rid of it, and he will catch up with the eastern gate of Ludd and kill him. God will also defeat the Jews. From now on, there will be nothing left of the creatures created by Allah that a Jew will hide behind and that Allah will not make them speak. Those who do not say, "O Muslim servant of Allah! This is a Jew. Come and kill him," will not be a stone, a tree, a wall, or an animal. will not speak.) (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (continuing his speech) said: (And the days (period) of Dajjal are forty years. One year is like half a year and one year is like a month. Its month is like a week, and the remaining days are like sparks (fast-paced). One of you (on those days) would be near the gate of Madinah in the morning and could not reach the other gate of Madina until the evening.) Then it was asked: Messenger of Allah! How will we pray in those short days? You appreciate it in those short days as you do. Then perform prayers.) The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) (continuing his speech) said: (Isa bin Maryam (Aleyhisselam) will be a just judge and a just imam (in my nation) in my Ummah, will break the cross and kill the pig. He will abolish the jizya and abandon zakat. No more zakat officer will be employed on either sheep, goats, cattle, or camels. Enmity and hatred will also be removed. The poison of every poisonous animal will also be removed. Even a small boy will put his hand in the mouth of the snake and the snake will call him. The little girl will also force the lion to flee, and the lion will not harm her. The wolf will be like the dog of the herd in a herd of sheep and goats. The earth will be filled with peace just as the vessel is filled with water. There will be a unity of religion, no one will be worshiped but Allah anymore. War will leave their weights (weapons and materials). He will finish his plant with the n covenant. In fact, a bunch of people (from three to ten people) on a bunch of grapes will feed them all, and a bunch of people on a pomegranate will feed them all. The ox will correspond to this amount of (highly valued) property, and the horse will correspond to a few (insignificant) dirhams.) Companions: Messenger of Allah! What makes the horse cheap? they asked. He said: (The horse will not be ridden (for war) forever (because there will be no war). He was asked: What made his price (so) expensive? In the first year, Allah will order the cloud to retain one-third of its rain, and will command the ground to retain (not give) one-third of its plant. Then, in the second year, Allah will command the cloud, and the cloud will He will imprison two-thirds of it, and Allah will command the earth, and the earth will imprison two-thirds of its plant. Then, in the third year, Allah will command the cloud, and the cloud will imprison all of its rain. Not a drop of rain will fall any more. Allah will also command the ground and imprison the entire vegetation of the earth. Nothing will be finished. There will no longer be any double-toed (ruminant) animal left, and they will all perish, except the animal that Allah (swt) wishes to live.) du. (To him) : What keeps people alive (supply) in time? he was asked. He: (Tehlil (i.e. "La ilaha illallah"), takbir (i.e. "Allahu akbar"), tasbih (i.e. "Subhanallah") and tahmid (i.e. "al-Hamdu lillah"). These dhikrs will serve as food for people,) commanded."
4216-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The Hour will not come until bin Mary (Muhammad) descends (from the sky) as a just judge and a just imam (head of state). He (when he descends) will break the cross, kill the pig, and abolish the jizya. The wealth will increase so much that no one will accept it.)
4217-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: And Magog (the Great Wall) will be opened and Allâhu ta’âlâ’s; As the verse "They will descend from every hill quickly", they will come out and invade the earth. The Muslims will also leave their places and retreat due to their (attack) attack. Even the remaining Muslims will take refuge in their cities and lands and keep their herds of mevagi (camels, cattle, sheep and goats) with them (that is, they will not be able to send them to pasture). Gog and Magog (their pioneers) will stop by the river and drink and consume its water so that nothing remains in its bed. Those who are behind will stop by and their spokesperson will say: Surely there was water in this place once. They will rule the earth. Then their spokesperson: These people are the people of the earth, we have finished their work. And now the people of heaven will say, 'We will fight. One of them will even throw his harbe (short spear) towards the sky and return with his harbe covered in blood. Thereupon they will say: Surely we killed the people of the sky. While they are like this, Allah will suddenly send animals like a herd of camel wolf and these animals will grab them by the neck, and they will be like the death of a herd of locusts, and they will pile up on one another. In the morning, the Muslims will not hear their voices. Thereupon, the Muslims said: Who will sacrifice his life and see what they do? they will say. Thereupon, a Muslim man who had prepared himself to have Gog and Magog to be killed will descend (from his refuge) and find the Gog and Magog hordes dead. Thereupon, he will call out to the Muslims: Beware! I give you good news. Your enemies are dead. Thereupon, the Muslims will go out (from their places of refuge) and release their sheep and cattle.)
4218-) - “... Abu Hurayra narrated that: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "When Gog and Magog (the Great Wall) were digging every day, they finally got close to seeing the light of the sun (through the hole they were trying to open), They will say, "You will dig tomorrow, if Allahu ta'ala wishes," and the chief will say, Insha'Allah (or the man at their head will say to them: Insha'Allah.) Then (the next day) they will reach the wall. the day before) they will be as they left it (that is, the rift they opened will have stopped as it was) and they will dig the wall (through the holes in the trees) and climb over the people and drink the water (they have arrived). they will shoot their arrows into the sky. And their arrows will come back filled with blood. Thereupon, they will say: We destroyed the people of the earth (we overcame them) and defeated the people of the sky. Then Allah put them on their necks. He will send the camel wolves that will haunt them and kill them with these wolves. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (I swear by (Allah) in whose hand is my soul (power) that the animals on the ground will definitely grow fat and their udders will be filled with milk.)
4219-) - “... From Abdullah bin Mes'ud (radiyallahu anh); He said: When (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was taken to Mi'raj at night, he met Abraham, Moses and Jesus (Aleyhimus-Salam) and they negotiated about the Day of Judgment. They started (negotiation) with Abraham and asked him when the Doomsday would break. There was no information with him about the subject. Then they asked Moses. There was no information in his presence about the subject. Thereupon, the word was given to Isa bin Meryem. He said: I was informed about the things (events) that were close to the end of the world. But after he said that no one knows the (time) of the Doomsday except Allah, he told me about the emergence of the Dajjal. Gog and Magog will appear before them once, and they will go fast from every hill. Now Gog and Magog will drink every water they pass by and destroy everything they come by. I will pray to Allah and pray to Allah to kill Gog and Magog. (This wish will be granted) and the ground will stink with the stench of their (carcasses). and that water He will carry them and throw them into the sea. Then the mountains will be smashed and scattered, and the earth will be spread and widened as the skin is spread and widened. When that happens, I have been informed that the Day of Judgment will be like a pregnant woman whose household will not know when her birth will suddenly occur, in terms of her closeness to people.
4221-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There will be al-Mahdi in him. If it is kept short (with you), it is seven (years). If it is not kept short (the period it will stay), it is nine years. My ummah will find such prosperity at that time that it has certainly not found its like until that day. The earth will give its nuts (food products) and will not hide anything from people (it will not refuse to give it. The wealth will also accumulate a lot on that day. The man will stand up and say: O Mahdi! Give me (goods)'. Mahdi will also say: Take it.) "
4222-) - “... According to what is reported from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There will be three people fighting next to your treasure. All three are sons of a caliph. Then (the caliphate) will not happen to any of them. Later, black flags (the army carrying) will emerge from the east and they will kill you in a way that no tribe has ever killed. He said: My sheikh remembered something that is not in my memory at the moment. Then (continuing to narrate the text of the hadith) he said: When you see that (at the head of the army), pay allegiance to him (go) even if it is by crawling on the snow. Because he is the Mahdi, the caliph of Allah."
4223-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He is from us, from Ahl al-Bayt. Allah corrects him overnight (that is, accepts his repentance or equips him with blessings and wisdom). "
4224-) - “... From Said bin al-Museyyeb (radiyallahu anh); He said: We were with Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) (the mother of the believers). We negotiated about the Mahdi for a while. Thereupon, Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) said: I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: (My daughter) is from Fatima’s parent.
4225-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he said: The children of Abdulmuttalib are the elders of the people of Paradise. I, Hamza, Ali, Ja'far, Hasan Husayn and Mahdi.)
4226-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin al-Harith bin Cez' ez-Zübeydî (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Some people will appear and they will prepare the environment for the Mahdi. It refers to the Mahdi's reign.
4227-) - “... From Hassan bin Atiyye (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: and Ibn Abi Zakariyya (once) went to Khalid bin Ma'dan (radiy-Allâhu anhum). I went with them too. He narrated hadiths to us from Khalid bin Ma'dan, Cubayr bin Nufayr (radiy-Allâhu anh). Khalid bin Ma'dan said: Jubayr (one day) said to me: Come with us to Zi Mihmer (radiyallahu anh). Zi Mihmer was one of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). I went with them too. Jubayr asked Zi Mihmer about the peace treaty (which was announced to be made between Muslims and Greeks) (he asked for information about it). Thereupon, Zi Mihmar said: I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): They will make a guaranteed peace treaty with you. Then you and they will fight (another) enemy, and you will be victorious, take the booty and come out safe. Then you will return from the war and finally arrive at a pasture with hills. A man (there) from the people of the cross (ie, Christians) will raise the cross in the air and say: The cross (i.e. the religion of Christianity) has prevailed. A Muslim man will get angry and break the cross (in the man's hand) and crush it. That's when the Greeks will break the peace treaty and gather for fierce war - conflict.) ...
4229-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When (conflicts - wars) occur, Allah will send such an army from the mawâl that the most valuable of the Arabs in terms of horses (type of horse) and the best of them in terms of weapons, Allah will spread the religion of Islam with them. It will 'yid (reinforce).)
4230-) - “... According to what is reported from Nafi bin Utbe bin Ebî Vakkas (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: You will fight the Arabian Peninsula (people). Allah will conquer it (you). Then you will fight the rums. Allah will conquer them (their land) as well. Then you will fight the Dajjal. Allah will conquer (defeat) him as well.) (bin Samurea) said: In this respect, the Dajjal will not emerge unless the Greeks are conquered.
4231-) - “... According to what is reported from Muâz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The war, the conquest of Kustuntiniyye and the emergence of the Dajjal will take place in seven months.)
4232-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Büsr (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There are six years between the conquest of al-Madinah (i.e. Constantinople) (that is, the great war). Dajjal appears in the seventh year.)
4233-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Avf (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The Hour will not come until the lowest of the armed forces of the Muslims standing guard at the border against the enemy in the place called. ) commanded. Ali said: May my mother be sacrificed for you (please), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: you will definitely fight Benul-Asfar (ie Greeks). Those who come after you will also fight them. Finally, the people of Hijaz, who are distinguished Muslims, who do not fear the condemnation of anyone in the way of Allah, will go to war with them and will conquer Kustuntiniyye with tasbih and takbir. They will obtain such plentiful loot that they have not had the equivalent of it until that day, that they will divide it with shields. A man who comes will say (to the Muslims): No doubt, the Dajjal has appeared in your countries. Be aware that that news is false. Now those who keep that news (that is, those who believe) regret it, and those who abandon it (that is, those who do not believe) regret it.) "
4234-) - “... According to what is reported from Avf bin Malik al-Ashcai (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There will be a peace treaty between you and the Greeks. Then they will break this treaty unilaterally and will come to you (to wage war) under eighty flags, with a force of twelve thousand men under each flag.)
4235-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "The Hour will not come until you fight a people whose shoes are hairy, and the Hour will not come until you fight a people whose eyes are small."
4236-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The Hour will not come until you fight a people with small eyes, short noses and short noses, and whose faces are like shields covered with a layer of leather, and the Hour will not come until you fight a people whose shoes are hairy."
4237-) - “..... Amr bin Taglib (radiyallahu anh) has narrated that he said: I heard the following command from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) it is one of the signs. The faces of those people are like shields (thick and very fleshy) covered with layers of leather. Fighting a tribe that wears hairy shoes is undoubtedly one of the signs of the Day of Judgment.)
4238-) - “.... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The Hour will not come until they fight a round nation with small eyes and wide faces. Their eyes are like the eyes of grasshoppers and their faces are like shields covered with layers of skin. They wear bristle shoes, make leather shields, and tie their horses to palm trees.)
4239-) - “.... According to what is narrated from Abu Dharr-i Gıfârî (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Disrespecting, turning away from it does not forbid what is halal, nor does it mean wasting or wasting property. And yet, not showing interest in the world is that you do not trust (hope) what is in your hands (bounties and opportunities) more than what is in Allah's hand (that is, in the treasure) (hopefully) He said: Abu Idris al-Havlani, in his speech, said: "The situation of this hadith in gold is like the situation of solid gold in gold." "
4240-) - “.... According to what is reported from Abu Hallad (radiy-Allâhu anh), who attained the honor of being a Companion; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When you see a man who has been given the trait of not showing interest in the world and speaking little, approach him (listen carefully to his words). Because that person speaks wise words (or wisdom is inspired in his heart).) "
4241-) - “... From Sahl bin Sa'd es-Saidi (radiyallahu anh); He said: A man (one day) came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “Rasûlullah! He said: Show me such a deed (worship) that when I do it, Allah will love me and people will love me too. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Don’t be gracious to him so that Allah will love you and turn away from the (bounties and opportunities) that people have in their hands so that they (also) will love you.” "
4242-) - “... From Samura bin Sehm (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), a man from the tribe of Abu Vail (Shakik bin Salama); He said: I came to Hashim bin Utba (radiy-Allâhu anh) when he was stricken with the plague. A little later, Muaviye (bin Abi Sufyan) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) came to visit him. Abu Hashim wept for a while. Thereupon, Muawiya asked: What is it that makes you cry? O Uncle! Is it a pain that makes you suffer, or is it indulgence in the world (because it's gone)? said. Abu Hashim: It is not for any of them. And yet, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) gave me an advice, I wish I had followed that advice (I regret it). He: Ebâ Hashim!) It is strongly hoped that you will catch up with some goods (belonging to the treasury) that will be divided among some tribes. He said, "Only a servant and a riding animal (on which you will travel) in the way of Allah is sufficient for you." Then I caught up with (these goods) and saved up (contrary to that advice). "
4243-) - “... from Enes (radiyallahu anh); He said: (I Fârisi) (radiy-Allâhu anh) fell ill. Sa'd (bin Ebî Vakkas) (radiy-Allâhu anh) also went to visit him. He saw that Salman was crying. Then Sa'd asked him: What made you cry? Haven't you had the honor of being friends with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? Isn't it (like this) isn't it (like that) isn't it? (that is, you have this and that virtues), he said. Salman: I don't cry for one of two things: I don't cry because of a fondness for this world or because of dislike for the hereafter. And yet, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) gave me an advice (was) and he said, I think I must have exceeded the limits of that advice (that is why I am crying). Sa'd: What advice did he give you? she asked. Salman: He (was) advised me: (As much as the food of a person traveling on a riding animal is enough for one of you). However, I think I have definitely overstepped the bounds of that recommendation. When it comes to you, Ya Sa'd said: Fear Allah (avoid your punishment), in your judgment when you judge, in your distribution when you divide (rights), and in your determination when you intend something. Thabit said: The news reached me that Salman (radiyallahu anh) did not leave any property other than his alimony of twenty-odd dirhams (when he died). "
4244-) - “... From Ebân bin Osman bin Affan (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: bin Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh) (once) left Marwan (bin al-Hakam) at midnight (once) during the day. I said: At this (untimely) hour, Marwan sent a message to Zayd bin Thabit about something he absolutely wanted to ask (he had him call him), and I asked Zayd bin Thabit (the reason why he was called). Thereupon, Zayd asked us about some of the things we heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). I heard the following order from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and he said: If his desire or aim is the world, Allah will mess up his work against him, put his poverty between his two eyes (that is, he will suffer for the sake of obtaining this worldly world, but his passion will not subside) and Nothing comes to him from the world (bounty and wealth) except the amount written for him (in his destiny). Whoever's intention and desire is for the hereafter, Allah will organize his (mess) work for him, place his wealth in his heart, and the world (with his blessings and property) will go to him (comfortably) by submitting.) " Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiy-Allâhu anh) ) said: I heard the following order from our Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam): if he turns many desires into one desire - the desire for the Hereafter - Allah is sufficient for his worldly desire. If he disperses it, Allah will not compliment which of its streams it is destroyed.)
4246-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) as a merf (in other words, narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)) Allah Subhanahu says: Son of Adam! "
4247-) - “... From al-Mustawrid (radiyallahu anh), brother of Banu Fihr; He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: (The status (and value) of the world (bounties) in the face of the Hereafter (bounties) is only when one of you (hand) puts his finger in the sea. let him see what he will return from that water)"
4248-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) slept on a mat. The straw made a mark on His (blessed) skin. Then I said: May my mother be sacrificed for you, O Messenger of Allah! I wished you had informed us so that we could lay something on the mat for you to protect you from ten (not making a trace of flour), I said. Then Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I am not with the world (bounties). My relationship with the world is only like a rider (the fellowship with the tree) who takes a little shade (resting) under a tree, then goes and leaves the tree (passenger). "
4249-) - “... From Sahl bin Sa'd (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in Dhu'l-Hulayfa. He was suddenly confronted by an unclean calf whose feet were up in the air from swelling. Then He said: do you see (or do you know) that the unclean cattle is worthless to its owner? I swear by Allah, in whose hand (power) my soul (power) is, that the world in the sight of Allah is worth less than this sheep in its owner's sight, and if the world were as precious as a mosquito's wing in the sight of Allah, Allah would not make an unbeliever drink (even a drop of the earth's (water)). ) commanded. "
4250-) - “... From Al-Mustawrid bin Shaddad (radiyallahu anh); He said: When he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) arrived on an undefiled sahle (that is, a lamb or a kid), I was certainly present in the caravan that was with him. Al-Mustawrid said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said after (arriving at the head of that dead animal): Do you see (or do you know) that the unclean animal is worthless in the eyes of its owners - or as he said -. Al-Mustawrid said (on this question): Messenger of Allah! It was said that the owners only threw it away because of its worthlessness. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I swear by the one in whose hand (power) is (Allah), that the world is worth less to Allah than this animal to its owners. " '..... From Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: It is a curse (that is, being acceptable in the sight of Allah, far from His compliments). The things in the world are also forbidden. However, the remembrance of Allah, the things that Allah loves (or close to remembrance of Allah), and the scholars and learners of knowledge (engagement with religious sciences) are excluded from this provision.) "
4252-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (The world is a believer’s prison and an unbeliever’s paradise.) . . From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) grabbed some of my body (two shoulders) and said: Abdallah! He said, "Be like a foreigner (far from your homeland) or like a passer-by (passenger) in the world, and count yourselves among the people (dead) of the graves."
4254-) - “... From Muâz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (to me): (Shall I not inform you of the (attributes) of the sultans of Paradise?). I said: (tell me) (On top of this) If he: He who is seen as weak (in the eyes of society), dressed in old two-piece clothes, who is not given any value and compliments, and swears (or prays) to Allah (for something to happen or not), Allah will pray for him (or He is every man (who is a valuable believer in the sight of Allah) who will fulfill his oath (with generosity). "
4255-) - “... According to what is reported from Harise bin Vehb (al-Huzâî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Do it! I am informing you of those who are in Paradise: Every (believer) person who is weak (in the eyes of society) and is considered weak. Be careful! I inform you of those who are in Hell (also): those who are hard-hearted, fond of hoarding wealth, and are very stingy and arrogant in order not to spend it in goodness,)
4256-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Umama (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: According to my belief, the person whose state is most suitable for people to envy is the person who has the following attributes: (his burden is light), has a share in prayer, remains hidden among people (not well known), and is valuable to himself (in society). a believer who is not given and complimented. His sustenance was sufficient and he persevered. His death was also quick, the property he left behind as an inheritance was less, and his women crying (behind him) were few.)
4257-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Umama al-Harisi (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is from faith. ) said that Bezâze is the age of the person's upper and head. In other words, it is to wear hard and unadorned old clothes (with the purpose of humiliation). "
4258-) - “... According to what is reported from Asma bint-i Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anha); He himself said to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (his Companions): Pay! Should I not inform you of the best of you?), to which the Companions replied: (I mean, let us know) O Messenger of Allah, and that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Is he the best of you? 'min) are people who remember Allah (Azza wa Jalla) when they are seen). "
4259-) - “... From Sahl bin Sa'd es-Saidi (radiyallahu anh); He said: Once a (rich) man passed by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said (to those who were with him): What do you say about the (rich) man? Those who were there: we will say a word about the man in accordance with your opinion. We say (outwardly and in terms of worldliness): This man is one of the most honorable of people. They said that if this man wants to marry (a woman) he is worthy of being married, if he is an intercessor (for something), his intercession is accepted, and if he says something, his word is worthy of being heard. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) also remained silent. Meanwhile, another man (who was poor) passed by. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked: What do you think about the man? Those present: By Allah, O Messenger of Allah! We say: This man is one of the poor of the Muslims. This is worthy of it! They said that if he aspires to marry (with a girl-woman), he will not marry her, if he is an intercessor (for something), his intercession will not be accepted, and if he says something, his word will not be listened to. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (the poor) is certainly better than the worldly people like the other (rich) man. "
4260-) - “... According to what is reported from Imran bin Husayn (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Indeed, those who are in need of financial care, have children, and flee from begging and unlawful earnings, love their poor believing servant."
4261-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The poor will enter Paradise half a day (ie) five hundred years before the rich."
4262-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The poor of the immigrants will enter Paradise five hundred years before their rich ones.
4263-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: The poor complained to Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the virtue (some financial worships) that Allah bestowed upon the rich emigrants more than themselves (that is, they regretted not being able to perform financial worship like the rich). Thereupon He: group of the poor, beware! I give you the good news that the poor of the believers will enter Paradise half a day, (that is) five hundred years before the rich.) After Moses (reporting this hadith), he recited the following verse: . . . . . “And surely, a day with your Lord is like a thousand years that you count.” (Hajj, 47)
4264-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: bin Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh) used to love the poor (very much), sit next to them, talk to them (talk) and they talk to him. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to call him (Abu'l-Masakin (that is, the father of the poor)). "
4265-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: rejoice. Because I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say in his prayer: Let me live as a slacker, kill me as a slacker and resurrect me among the slums.)
4266-) - “... According to what is reported from Habbab (bin Eret) (radiy-Allâhu anh), he is Allahu ta'ala; Do not drive away those who pray to their Lord in the evening, seeking His pleasure. There is no responsibility on you for their account, and there is no responsibility on them for your account, so that you may dismiss them and become one of the wrongdoers. "(An'am, 52) said about his command: bin Habis et-Tamimi and Uyeyna bin Hisn al-Fezari (to visit the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)) came to see the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) mu' They found Suhayb sitting in a group of the weakest of the miner, together with Bilal, Ammar and Habbab, and when they saw them (that is, weak, poor and ineffective companions) around the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) they belittled and despised those weak Companions. they arrived alone with him (that is, we stepped aside) and they said: (O Messenger of Allah, when we come to visit) we definitely want you to allocate a session to us so that the Arabs can recognize our superiority with it, because Arab delegations come to you. "We are ashamed of them seeing us together with these slaves (that is, poor Muslims). Therefore, when we come to you, remove the slaves from your side. Then when we leave your presence, they said, "Sit with them if you wish." Cream (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (also): He said. This time, they said, "Write a letter for us stating that you have accepted our offer." Habbab said: Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked for a sheet of paper and sent Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) to write. We were sitting on one side of the assembly. At that time, Gabriel (Aleyhisselâm) descended and; Do not drive out (from) those who pray to their Lord in the evening, seeking His approval. There is no responsibility on you for their account, and there is no responsibility on them for your account, so that you may dismiss them and become one of the wrongdoers. He (Downloaded) the verse "(Enam, 52). Then we tried some of them by telling others about al-Akra' bin Habis and Uyayna bin Hısn, so that they might say, "Did Allah favor those among us?" Doesn't he know?" He said (by downloading) the verse (An'am, 53). After that: when the believers come to you, say (to them): Greetings to you. Your Lord took upon Himself the mercy—he promised. "(An'am, 54) said the verse. He said: After these verses were sent down, we approached him so much that we left our knees on his knee and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would sit with us. Then he wanted to get up. time would get up and leave us (that is, we used to get up and disperse after him) Then Allah (Azza wa Jalla) said: keep your soul patient with those who pray to Him morning and evening (i.e., devote to chatting with them), desiring the adornment of the worldly life, Do not turn from anyone (others) (do not sit with notables—privately). sent down the verse. Habbab said: (What is meant by . . . . . .) It is the work of Uyeyna and al-Akra. (Continuing his words of Habbab) Then Allah brought to them (that is, to the believers and unbelievers) the example of two men (verses 32 to 44 of the chapter of al-Kahf) and the example of the worldly life (verses of the 45th of the chapter of al-Kahf) (that is, he sent down the aforementioned verses). He said: After the 28th verse of the chapter of al-Kahf was revealed, we (that is, the poor and weak Companions) used to sit with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). When it was time for him to get up, we were leaving him to get up so that he could get up too. "
4267-) - “... From Sa'd (bin Ebî Vakkas) (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The verse was revealed about six of us: about me and about Ibn Mas'ud, Suheyb, Ammar, Miqdad and Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anhum). The Quraysh (the polytheists) said to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): We are definitely not willing to follow them (that is, the Companions whose names are mentioned above). For this reason, kick them out, they offered. Sa'd said: Thereupon, something that Allah wished to enter the heart of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) (that is, the thought of complying with his offers) also entered his heart. Then Allah (Azza wa Jalla) revealed the verse: "Do not drive away those who pray to Him morning and evening, desiring His consent...." (An'am, 52).
4268-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh). According to the rumor; Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Shame on those who have a lot of worldly possessions, except those who do such and such, such and such. (The word "such") is four (commanded) types: (i.e.) from his right, from his left, in front of him and behind him (those who spend on the poor, in ways of good).
4269-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, 'Except for those who do such and such (that is, spend a certain part of it on the poor and charity around them) and earn it lawfully, those with the most worldly possessions will be the lowest (in rank) on the Day of Judgment.) "
4270-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Except for those who do such and such (that is, those who spend a certain part of their wealth on the poor and charitable causes), those with the most worldly possessions are the lowest (in rank in the hereafter). The word "such" is (commanded) three times. "
4271-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: I do not like a third night to come (two days pass) even though I have gold as much as Uhud (mountain) and a piece of it remains with me. Except for the piece I'll keep (in that gold) to pay off a debt.)"
4272-) - “... According to what is reported from Amr bin Ghaylan as-Sakafi (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever believes in me and confirms me (corrects) and knows that the (religion) I have brought is the only right (religion) from your side, give him little property and few children. , make the meeting with you sweet to him and hasten your death (that is, do not keep your life long). Whoever does not believe in me, does not confirm (confirms) me, and does not know that the (religion) I have brought from you is the only right (religion), give him much wealth and many children and prolong his life.)
4273-) - “... from Nukade al-Esadi (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent me to a man and asked him for a male camel (that is, a female camel that will be used for a temporary period of time). The man did not comply with this request. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent me to another man. This man sent him a (milk) camel. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saw the camel, he prayed: "O Allah! Bless this camel and the one who sent it." He said: Thereupon, I told the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); (Prayer for blessings) I said to the one who brought the camel (if it was extended). He prayed: (And bless the one who brings the camel). Then he ordered the camel to be milked. Then the camel was milked and gave a lot of milk. Then the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prayed (for the first man who abstained from giving milk camels): Increase the wealth of fortune-tellers, and prayed for the man who sent the camel: “Make the food of so-and-so good day by day.” "
4274-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Let the one who is the servant of the servant, the servant of silver, the servant of fringed dress and the servant of checkered dress be unhappy. He (the self-interested ambitious) will be satisfied if (whatever he wishes) is given to him, but he will not perform (his homework) if he is not given it.)
4275-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Let the person who has a slave, a slave of silver or a slave of checkered clothes crawl and roll upside down. Even when a thorn prickles his body, he cannot find a person who removes it with tweezers.)
4276-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is not because of the abundance of wealth. However, wealth is the wealth of the soul (and the heart).)
4277-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Anyone who is led to the religion of Islam, given sufficient sustenance, and contented with it, has certainly found success.”
4278-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Make the sustenance of the household of Muhammad just enough to live on.)"
4279-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The rich and the poor will certainly desire that their sustenance be provided in the world on the Day of Judgment.) “… According to what is reported from Ubeydullah bin Mihsan al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Believers!
4281-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Look at those who are lower than you (in worldly affairs) and do not look at those who are above you (in worldly terms). Because that is more worthy of you not to underestimate Allah's bounty.) Abu Mu'awiya (in his own narration) said "what is on you - his blessing -". "
4282-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Certainly, he does not look at your appearances and properties (in terms of reward or punishment), but he only looks at your deeds and hearts.)
4283-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: We, Muhammad's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ali (that is, the household) would never stop for a month and light a fire (to cook some food) during that time. It was only dried dates and water (that is, what is used at home as food and drink). (The narrator Ibn Numayr said: "We would stay for a month.")"
4284-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: Surely, without the smoke of fire being seen in any of Muhammad's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) houses (a month would pass over him), the new moon would come over them. His narrator, Abu Salama, said: I asked (Aisha): What was their food? said. Aisha: two things: dried dates and water. Also, we had loyal neighbors from the Ansar. They had milk. These were the ones who would send the milk of their milkers to Him. (He also made us drink), he said. Muhammad said: And they (that is, the Ahl al-Bayt of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)) were nine houses. "
4285-) - “... from Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) when he was starving all day and could not find bad dates (even) to fill his stomach. "
4286-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiyallahu anh); He said: I told the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) many times: (I swear by (Allah) in whose hand is Muhammad's soul (power) that there is neither a grain (i.e. grain) nor a grain in the presence of the household of Muhammad. sa dried dates in the morning,) I heard the command. Surely He had nine wives that day. "
4287-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Nothing in the morning except a mud meal in the household) or (even a mud meal in the household of Muhammad did not wake up in the morning). "
4288-) - “... From Sulaiman bin Surad (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to us and we stopped for three nights (without food) even though we could not afford (or he) could not afford a food item. . "
4289-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): He said: One day, a hot meal was brought to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He ate and after the meal: Hamdu lillah (=Praise be to Allah). He said, 'No hot food has entered my stomach since this or that time. "
4290-) - “... From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ) it said: The bed on which (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) slept was tanned leather filled with fiber (i.e. date leaves). "
4291-) - “... Ali (bin Ebî Talib) and (his wife) Fatima (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ) were (sleeping) in a bearer (a bearer made of wool, fringed white sheet) that belonged to them, while the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told them there was. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) gave them that sheet, a pillow filled with izhir (the grass called Mecca straw) and a water bag (water bag) as a pocket. "
4292-) ... From Omar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh); He said: I entered the presence (room) of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). He was (reclining) on a mat. Ömer said: I sat down after a while. I saw that he was wearing an Izar (the dress that covered the body from the waist down) and there was nothing else on him. And I saw that the straw made a good mark on his blessed side. On one side of his room, a pinch of barley, the size of a sâ (scale), and some karaz (the fruit of the Salam tree used in leather tanning) caught my eye. I also saw a skin that has not yet been tanned hanging. I had tears in my eyes at this situation (I cried). Thereupon, he said: (What is it that makes you cry, O son of Hattab?). I said: O Prophet of Allah! How can I not cry? That mat has made a good mark on your (blessed) side, and I can't see anything other than what I saw in this hopper (that is, the corner you set aside for food). However, those Kisra and Kayser, fruits and rivers (bounties) are also found. I said, 'You are the prophet and chosen servant of Allah, this is your cellar. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Son of Hattab! Would you not be content with the Hereafter for us and the world for them?) Me: I said yes. "
4293-) ... From Ali (bin Ebi Talib) (radiyallahu anh); He said: The daughter of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was sent to me (Fatima wedding night). Our wedding night bed was nothing but ram skin. "
4294-) - “... It is narrated from Abu Mas'ud (al-Ansari) (radiyallahu anh): He (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to order charity. Thereupon, any of us (who could not afford to give alms) would go and carry a load (for a fee) to bring two handfuls of dates (dates). Today, one of them has a hundred thousand fortunes. Mas'ud's narrator) Shakik said: It seems to me that Abu Mas'ud (by this word) meant (due) his own person (his financial situation). "
4295-) - “... From Khalid bin Umayr (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: bin Ghazwan (bin Jabir) delivered a sermon to us on the pulpit and said: I saw him as the seventh of the seven (first Muslim) who were with him. We had nothing to eat but tree leaves. We even got sores around our mouths (because we ate tree leaves). "
4296-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): They were (very) hungry as seven people on the day with their friends. Abu Huraira said: Thereupon, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) gave me seven dried dates, one for each person. "
4297-) - “... According to what is reported from Zubayr bin al-Awwam (radiy-Allâhu anh): Surely, on that day (on the Day of Judgment), you will certainly be asked about the blessing (thank you). "When the verse "Takasur" is revealed, Zubayr (bin al-Awwami (radiyallahu anh) said: Rasûlallah!) We will be asked about what blessing you are grateful for? (The blessing we have) is only two black things: dried dates and water. The Messenger of Allah said. Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Become, it will certainly be a blessing that you will be asked (that is, you will have abundance),.”
4298-) - “... From Jabir bin Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent us on an expedition as a detachment of three hundred people. We were carrying our provisions (due to their scarcity) on our necks. Then our food ran out (start to run out). So much so that for each man (head) of us, one dry donut (alimony is given). (When Jabir explained this situation, by his narrator Vehb bin Keysân): Ebâ Abdillah! What is a dried date (hungry) for a man? it was said. Thereupon, Jabir said: When we could not find dried dates (even), we heard about its absence (what it was), (and continued his speech) and then we reached the sea. There we suddenly came across a big fish that the sea had thrown on the beach and we ate from that fish for eighteen days. " ,
4299-) - “... From Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: While we were busy repairing a hut that belonged to us, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed by us and asked: (What is this?). Me too: it is a hut that bends, we repair it. said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “I think it is more hasty than that.” "
4300-) - “... from Enes (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) passed by a building (built) above the house door of a man from the Ansar and asked: This? Those present said: It is a building built by such and such a man. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Every property (spent on unnecessary building) is a sin against its owner on the Day of Judgment.” Then this command reached the Ansari (who owns the house). He also (destroyed) the building. After a while, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (again) passed by and could not see that building, so he asked what had happened to the building. He was answered, "The owner [destroyed] the building because he heard your command." He prayed: May Allah have mercy on that man, may Allah have mercy on that man. "
4301-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: In the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) I built a (i.e. a simple) house that protected myself from rain and sun with my own hand. No creature of Allahu ta'ala helped me in the construction of that house. It is as if my work is in front of my eyes. "
4302-) - “... From Harise bin Mudarrib (radiyallahu anh); He said: We went to visit Habbab (bin el-Erett) (radiyallahu anh) because of his illness. Habbab said: It took a long time, and if I had not heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: (Do not wish for death), I would have wished for death (to get rid of the pain of illness). A servant will definitely receive rewards for all his (legitimate) expenditures. What you did to the earth alone or said; Except for the expenditure on the building. "
4303-) - “... From Omar (bin el-Khattab) (radiyallahu anh); He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: If you had truly put your trust in Allah, He would certainly provide for you (as well) as he provides for the birds that go hungry in the morning and return (to their nests) in the evening.)
4304-) - “... from Habbe and Sevâ' (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ), sons of Khalid; They said: We entered him while he was busy repairing something. We helped him in that job. Then he told us: do not despair of sustenance as long as he acts (that is, lives). Because, of course, the mother gives birth to a human being red and with no clothes on. Then Allah Azza wa Jalla will provide for him.)
4305-) - “... According to what is narrated from Amr bin al-As (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There is a piece of the heart of the son of Adam (the heart has a relationship with everything popular) in every stream. Now, if it fits all of those parts (that is, if it is offered to all desires), it will not compliment (look) at which level (that is, after desire) destroyed that person. And whoever puts his trust in Allah, Allah is sufficient for him to prevent his heart from being scattered.)
4306-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Let no one of you die except by having good thoughts about Allah (that is, the hope of forgiveness)."
4307-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A believer is better than a weak believer and more beloved to Allah. There is no in both. Be fond of things that benefit you (such as worship and reward) and do not be lax. If something beats you, say, "It is Allah's will and He will do whatever He wishes. Beware of Lev (= if I had done this, if it were like that) because Lev (= if I had done this, if that was the case)" against the devil's work (and his delusion). leads (= Puts the thought of defying fate into the heart). "
4308-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The word is (like) the loss of a believer. Wherever he finds it, he is most entitled to receive it.)"
4309-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There are blessings that many people have been deceived (use of these blessings): health (that is, human health) and leisure time. ) "
4310-) - “... Abu Ayyub (al-Ansari) (radiyallahu anh) said: The man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlallah! He said, Teach me (the useful thing) and say it concisely. The Messenger of God (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to the man: “When you stop to pray, perform the prayer like the one who says goodbye. Do not speak a word that requires you to apologize, and decide to give up hope on the (worldly) things that people have in their hands.” "
4311-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "The situation of a person who, after sitting on the ground and listening to the wise speech, talks about what he heard (words) from his (speaker) friend, is similar to the situation of a man who tells only what is bad (that is, the result of mistake, forgetfulness or slip of the tongue)". He goes to the shepherd and says: O shepherd! He asks, "Give me a fat sheep suitable for slaughter." The shepherd (also): Go and grab (take) the ears of the best sheep. Thereupon, the man goes and grabs the ear of the herd's dog.) ... Ebü'l-Hasan bin Salama also narrated to us the same hadith, with a copy of ..... With the difference that the narrator said in the text of the hadith he narrated with this isad: "From the ear of the best sheep of the flock". (That is, he added the word "shaat = sheep", which is not in the narration.) "
4313-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "A person who has the weight of a mustard seed's arrogance will not enter Paradise, and a person whose heart has as much faith as a mustard seed weight will not enter the (eternal) fire."
4314-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Subhanahu says: Greatness and greatness are my attributes. Whoever disagrees with me (even partially) on one of these two attributes (that is, if he tries to wear these attributes even partially), I will throw him into Hell.)
4315-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Subhanahu says: Kibriya is my rida. Azamet is also my izar. (that is, my special adjectives). Whoever disagrees with me (even partially) on one of these two attributes (that is, if he tries to wear these attributes even partially), I will throw that person into the fire.)
4316-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If Allah Subhanahu (his consent) shows a degree of humility, Allah will raise him a degree in return. And whoever is arrogant to a degree against Allah (please), Allah will lower him by a degree in response to his arrogance, so that he will finally place him in the lowest of the lowest.)
4317-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: "Even the old woman who is a concubine from the people of Medina, holds the hand of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and blesses her until she takes her to any district of Madinah she wants for her own needs and business. he would not take his hand from the (old) woman's hand (that is, he would show such superior humility). "
4318-) - “... from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would visit the sick, follow the funeral, accept the invitation of the slave and ride the donkey. He was on a donkey on the day of Qurayza and Nadir (war). On the day of Khyber (war), he was on a donkey with a halter made of palm leaves on his nose, and under it was a saddle made of date leaves (i.e. hard - coarse). "
4319-) - "... According to what is reported from Iyaz bin Himar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made a speech to them and said: He revealed to me that he should not be superior.)
4320-) - “... From Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was more shy than a virgin girl standing in her veiled corner, and when she disliked something, her displeasure (blessed) was visible on her face. "
4321-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Every religion has a characteristic (specific to its members). The habit and character of Islam (specific to its members) is also haya.)
4322-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, he said: Every religion has a characteristic (specific to its members). The character of Islam (specific to religious adherents) is undoubtedly haya.)
4323-) - “... According to what is reported from Ukbe bin Amr Abu Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "One of the news that people have accessed from the words of the prophets (complete and uninterrupted): Do whatever you want when you are not ashamed! (word) "
4324-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (shyness) is a part of faith. Iman (the owner) is also in Paradise. Immorality (and the ugly speech made because of it) is a part of cefa. Jafa (the one) is also in the fire.) " " . . According to what is narrated from Enes (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Anything (that is, a person) that used to be ugly has definitely stained and made it ugly. Whatever (person) happened in life, he definitely decorated it.)
4326-) - “... According to what is reported from Muâz bin Enes (al-Juhenî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he swallows anger even though he is able to do what is necessary, Allah will make that person famous on the Day of Judgment with the praise of all creatures. Finally, he frees him to choose whoever he wishes from among the houris.)
4327-) - “... From Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh); He said: We were sitting next to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said (meanwhile): The delegations of Abd al-Qays came. However, none of us saw it that way (that is, he said as a miracle that the delegations that had not yet arrived in Madinah had arrived). After a while, they came to a stop and then went to the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). El-Eşeccü'l-Asari remained among them. He came later. For he went down to a house, made his camel kneel, and left his (journey) robe aside. Then he (wearing clean clothes) went to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said to him: Ashecc! There are really two traits that Allah loves in you: being wise and not in a hurry to act with your teen.) Ashecc: Messenger of Allah! Are (these traits) something in my creation or did they occur in me later? she asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is something in his creation. "
4328-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to al-Eşeccü’l-Asari: “There are two traits in you that Allah loves: to act with wisdom and youthfulness and not to hurry.” "
4329-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There is no greater sip in terms of reward in the sight of Allah than a sip of anger that a (believer) servant swallows just to seek Allah's approval.)"
4330-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Dharr(-i Gifârî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I see (the truth) that you do not see and I hear (the truth) that you do not hear. The sky (as if) creaked, and it is right to creak. (Because) there is no place for four fingers in the sky where an angel does not put his forehead (on that ground) to prostrate to Allah. I swear to God. If you knew what I know (the truth), you would laugh less and cry a lot. You would not take pleasure in women on your beds, and you would go out on the roads (from your dwellings) and call out to Allah with a loud voice). (Continuing his speech) He said, "By Allah, I really wished that I was a tree that was cut down." "
4331-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If you knew what I know (the facts), you would laugh less and cry a lot.)"
4332-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Zubayr (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): He said that there was not more than four years between their acceptance of Islam and the revelation of the verse that Allah rebuked them: Those who were given a book before that Then let him not be like those (Jews and Christians) whose hearts hardened after a long time passed and most of them apostatized.) (Hadid, 16)
4333-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do not laugh. Because too much laughter kills (i.e. hardens) the heart.)"
4334-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered me: (O Ibn Mas'ud!) Read the Qur'an to me. So I started to recite Surah Nisa to him. Finally; When we brought a witness (his prophet) from the Ummah and Mal as a witness against them (let's see how the disbelievers will be?)" - When I reached the verse of Nisa, 41 - I looked at him and saw that tears were flowing from his eyes.
4335-) - “... from Al-Barâ (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: We were at a funeral with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) sat on the edge of the grave. Then he wept so much that the ground became wet (with His tears). Then he said: My brothers! Prepare (good deed) for the like of it.)
4336-) - “... According to what is narrated from Sa'd bin Abi Vakkas (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Cry because of your fear. If your crying doesn't come, force yourself to cry.)
4337-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "There is no believing servant, even if it is the size of the head of a house fly (small), because of his fear, there is no believing servant who has tears coming out of his two eyes and touches a part of his abutment, so that Allah does not forbid him into the fire.)"
4338-) - “... from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: Is a believer, whose situation is stated in the verse of the Messenger of Allah (Mu'minun, 60), a person who commits adultery, steals and drinks alcohol? I asked. He said: O Abu Bakr's daughter (or "O Siddiq's daughter)! But she is a man who fasts, gives alms and prays out of fear of not being accepted from her."
4339-) - “... From Muawiya bin Abi Sufyan (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: I heard Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: It is only like a vessel (the substance in it). If the bottom (that is, the bottom part) is beautiful, the top (that is, the upper part) will also be beautiful, and if the bottom (that is, the bottom part) is damaged, the top part will also fail.) "As it is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When he prays in the open (that is, where he is seen by someone else) he performs well (that is, in accordance with his method and without showing off) and when he prays in secret (that is, where he is not seen by others), Allah (Azza wa sallam) Celle) (praising that servant): He says: This is my servant (who does his homework) properly.)
4341-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) : Believers!) Act with moderation in your deeds and worship and avoid exaggeration (i.e., going excessively in worship). Because none of you (good) worship is saving the job.) Companions: can't they save? “O Messenger of Allah?” they asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: My worship alone is not a savior unless Allah’s mercy and grace envelop me. "
4342-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (Azza wa Jalla) said: I am free from having partners (that is, I do not need to associate any being with my self). Now, whoever does an act of worship that he associates with me other than me - good for me, I have no relation with that worship - goodness, and that worship - no, is for the person whom he has made a partner (with me))"
4343-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Sa'd bin Ebî Fadale al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh), one of the Companions; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he gathered those who came first and those who came after (that is, all humans and jinn) for the Day of Judgment, the day of which there is no doubt (reckoning), a caller said: To a worship that he performed for Allah's pleasure. If he has a partner (the consent of someone other than Allah), let him demand his reward from someone other than Allah (that is, the person he associates with). Because Allah will call out that partners are the most deprived of partnership (that is, he does not need any partnership).
4344-) - “... From Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh); He said: While we (the Companions) were discussing among ourselves about the corruption of the Messiah, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came up to us and said: (I think I should not tell you what is more terrible for you than the Messiah Dajjal. right?) he commanded. Abu Said said: We said: "Buyur (tell me)". Thereupon, he said: "The more terrible thing for him) is hidden shirk (which is: The man's making his prayer beautiful because of another man standing in prayer and looking at him (himself).) "
4345-) - “... According to what is reported from Shaddad bin Evs (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The thing I fear the most is associating partners with Allah. Be aware that I am not going to say that they will worship the sun, the moon, or idols, but they will perform certain acts of worship for other than Allah and desire a secret lust.)
4346-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever makes him (to show off his worship) heard, Allah will make that person (i.e. his purpose to the people) heard, and whoever is hypocritical (in his worship), Allah will punish him for his hypocrisy.)
4347-) - “... According to what is reported from Jundub (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If he is hypocritical (in his worship), Allah will punish him for his hypocrisy, and whoever makes him hear (the people to show off his worship), Allah will make him (the people) hear him."
4348-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There are only two (characteristics) for envy, which is lovely in His sight: (this characteristic of a man whom Allah has given a wealth and managed to spend it on the right way) and (This is the trait of the man who gave a wisdom from Allah and judged with that wisdom and taught it.)
4349-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There are only two (characteristics) for envy, which is lovely in His sight: A man who gives (knowledge) the Qur'an (knowledge) of Allah and acts upon it during the night and during the day. (This is the trait of a man who gives wealth from Allah and spends it in the way of charity during the night and during the daytime.) "
4350-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (that is, not being able to attract a blessing from someone else) eats (consumes) rewards just as fire eats (destroys) wood. Charity extinguishes fault just as water extinguishes fire. Prayer is the light of the believer. Fasting is also a shield from the fire.)
4351-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "There is no sin in this world more worthy of hastening punishment for its owner than the sins of oppression and severing good relations with relatives, along with the punishment he has postponed to the hereafter."
4352-) - “... According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhâ), the mother of the believers; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The quickest thing to do is to do good to any of the creatures and to take good care of relatives. The worst punishment for evil is cruelty - mistreating creatures and breaking good relations with relatives.)
4353-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Belittlement of one's brother (his crime) is sufficient as bad behavior for a man."
4354-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Be humble and revealed to me that some of you may not oppress others.”
4355-) - “... According to what is reported from Atiyya al-Sa'di -who was one of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)- (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Because he is afraid of what is objectionable, he cannot reach the level of pious people unless he abandons what is objectionable.” “.... From Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked: “Resûlallah)! Which of the people is more virtuous?” He said: “Mahmûm (pure) and every (believer) person with a very correct tongue.” The Companions: The Messenger of Allah! We know (what n means). They asked what is the suffocated heart? It is the heart that fears Allah, is pure, has neither sin nor cruelty to harm creatures, nor grudges nor envy (the heart). dir,) he commanded.
4357-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Abu Hurayra! Avoid the doubtful (that is, halal or haram) things carefully, (in that case) you will be the most worshiping of people (Allah). Be content (in the worldly gift given to you), and you will be the most grateful (to Allah) of people. Love (that is, desire) for people what you love (good) for yourself, then you will be a mature believer. Be good neighbors to your neighbors, (in that case) you will become a Muslim and laugh a little. Because too much laughter kills (i.e., darkens and hardens) the heart.)"
4358-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "There is no mind like that, there is no vera' (= carefully avoiding sin and doubtful things) like keeping the nafs (tormenting Muslims) off, and there is no honor like good temperament.)"
4359-) - “... According to what is reported from Samura bin Jundub (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (that is, what elevates a person in the eyes of the people) is property. Kerem (that is, what elevates a person in the sight of Allah) is also taqwa.)
4360-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I know such a word (Uthman – in his own narration – said: such a verse) that if all people had kept it, it would have been enough for all of them. Companions: Messenger of Allah! Which verse is it? they said. He said: = (And whoever fears Allah, Allah will grant him a way out (from narrowness to wideness).) (Talak, 2). "
4361-) - “... From Abu Zuhayr es-Sakafi (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) gave a speech to us in Nebâvet or Benâvef (the narrator said that Nebâvet is a place from Taif): You can distinguish those who are in heaven from those who are in hell, and you can recognize them. Companions: with what (can) distinguish and recognize? they asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) : (It happens) by remembering and commemorating with evil. (Because) you are Allah's witnesses (witnessing) about one another. "
4362-) - “... From Kulsum al-Huzâî (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: The man came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlullah! How do I know when I do good, and when I do bad, I do bad? she asked. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When your neighbors (who knew what you were doing) said: You did good, you really did good, and when they said: You did bad, you really did bad.) "
4363-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh), a man; To the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): How do I know when I do (what I do is good) and when I do something bad (that what I do is bad)? she asked. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (also) said to his (religious) neighbors: You did good, when you hear him say it, you will certainly do good, and when you hear them say: You have done wrong, (it will be) when you hear it,) he commanded. "
4364-) - “... According to what is narrated from Ibn-i Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A believer is a person whose ears Allah fills with people's praise for a good thing (he did). He also hears (it is mentioned with no). The one who is in Hell is the one who Allah fills his two ears with the words that people call him bad because of something bad (he did). He also hears (it is mentioned with evil)".
4365-) - “... From Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh). He said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): He does (good) things for the sake of Allah. People also love him because of this work (ie, what is the command for this situation)? said. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (Love is the urgent part of the good news that a believer will (get)). "
4366-) - “... from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said: A man said: Messenger of Allah! I do a (good) deed. Then (I did that job) is heard. I also like to be heard (i.e. what is commanded in this situation)? said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There are two rewards: the reward of doing it in secret and the reward of doing it openly. "
4367-) - "... According to what is reported from Umar bin al-Khattab (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: (that is, the value of what people do with their own will). only according to intentions, and everyone has only what he intends. Whoever's emigration (from the land of disbelief to the land of Islam) is directed towards Allah and His Messenger, his emigration is (truly) to Allah and His Messenger. Whoever's emigration is for worldly things or for a woman he will marry, that person's emigration (not for goodwill) is the name (worldly or woman) that causes him to emigrate.)
4368-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Kebşe al-Anmari (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The situation of the ummah is like the situation of four people: (The first) is a man whom Allah has given wealth and (religious) knowledge. This man, acting with his knowledge (in other words, in the light of his religious knowledge), spends it for the sake of his right (zakat, charity and gratuity). (The second) is the man whom Allah gave (religious) knowledge and did not give wealth. And this one says (in his heart): If I had the same amount of property as mine, I would have committed (too) the same as what this man did. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Two men are equal in merit," and (the third) is a man whom Allah gives wealth but not (religious) knowledge. This man acts unconsciously on his property and spends it outside of his right (that is, for the sake of his own desires), and (fourth) is the man to whom Allah has given neither (religious) knowledge nor property. He says: If I had the same amount of this property as mine, I would have done the same as what this man did with his property (that is, I would spend it in the way of my own desires). The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Two men are (original) equal in sin. Muhammad bin Ismail bin Samura narrated to us with his deed. "
4370-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: They will be resurrected according to their intention (which they carried while they were dying)) "
4371-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “They are resurrected for their (death) intentions.”
4372-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) a square shape (with a stick on earth-sand for the Companions), a line in the middle of that shape, a line in the middle He drew lines to the side of the line and a line outside that square shape. Then he said (to the Companions): Do you know what it is?). The Companions said: He knows the Messenger best. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): It is the middle line (inside the square). The lines to the side of that line are calamities (disease, hunger, etc.) These malfunctions tend to sting and bite him (such as a poisonous snake - scorpion) from everywhere. If this calamity - disaster does not hit him (it cannot catch), this calamity - disaster strikes him (catch and sting). The square shape is the death that surrounds it. The line outside the square is also a purpose,) he said.
4373-) - “... According to what is reported from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (pointing to something): He is the son of Adam (that is, he is human). This too is timed, his neck is next to him,) and he opened his hand beyond the place of death (the point he showed as); man's ambition is there,) he said. "
4374-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: A person's heart is young (i.e. strong and cheerful) in loving two traits: (those traits) are the love of life and the love of abundance of wealth.)
4375-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He gets old. But out of ten (of morality), two traits rejuvenate (that is, strengthen and develop): passion for wealth (accumulation and reproduction) and passion for life (length).)
4376-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he had two streams of property, he would want a third one with them. Nothing but earth can fill the (ambitious) soul of the Adamo. Allah accepts the repentance of the one who repents.)
4377-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Their lifespan is between sixty (age) and seventy (age), and very few people exceed this age.)
4378-) - “... (Mother of the believers) from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha): He said: I swear by my (My Lord) who (throws away) the spirit of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) In the last days of his life, most of his prayer(s) (except the obligatory one) were sitting (performing). The most beloved deed to him was the righteous deed (i.e., worship) that the servant (a believer) did constantly, even if it was little. "
4379-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: a woman was standing next to me. After a while, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered my room and asked, “Who is this woman?” I said: (At night) he never sleeps (Aisha started to explain the prayers that the woman performed). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Be busy with the deeds you can (continually) do (i.e., supererogatory worships). Because I swear by Allah that Allah does not cease to benevolent to you until you get tired of (worship). Âisha said: The most beloved religion (i.e., worship) to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was the one that its owner performed (worship) constantly. "
4380-) - “... Hanzala al-Katib et-Tamimi al-Usayyidi (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He reminded us of heaven and hell in such a way that we seemed to be able to see (heaven and hell) with our own eyes. Then I got up and went to my family and my child and (forgetting that) I laughed and had fun. Hanzala said: After a while, I remembered the situation we were in (while I gathered myself and was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). I immediately left (home) and met Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh). I said to him: I have become a hypocrite, I have become a hypocrite (by explaining the negligence I have fallen into), Abu Bakr said: Surely we are doing it (that is, we are making fun of our family members). Then Hanzala went and told the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about this situation. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Hanzala! If you were as you were with me (when you were not with me), the angels would shake hands with you on your beds (or on your roads). O Hanzala! An hour like this, an hour like that.) "
4381-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Take on as much as you can (continually) out of (i.e., non-obligatory worship). Because the best deed is the one that is continued the most, even if it is little.)
4382-) - “... from Jabir bin Abdillah (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) passed by a man praying on a stone and reached the edge of Mecca. After staying (there) for a long time, he returned and met the man praying on a stone while he was praying in the same situation. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up and joined his two hands together and said three times: People! Behave moderately (i.e., avoid exaggeration and understatement),) he said. (Then he continued his command as follows): (Surely, Allah does not cease to be kind to you until you get tired of (worship).)
4383-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: O Messenger of Allah! Are we punished for the sins we committed in the period of ignorance (that is, before we became Muslims)? we asked. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he behaves well in Islam, he will not be punished for his (sins) that happened during the period of ignorance (that is, before he became a Muslim). Whoever acts badly (after becoming a Muslim) will be judged (i.e. held responsible) for his (sins) both before (becoming a Muslim) and after (becoming a Muslim). "
4384-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to me: ‘Aisha (also) beware of the despised deeds (which are considered sins). Indeed, there is a researcher (angel) for them (from Allah). "
4385-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); Raeûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When he commits a sin, there is a black mark on his heart. Then, if that person repents, pulls out (his soul from that sin) and asks for forgiveness (from Allah), his heart will be polished and cleaned (from that trace of rust). If a believer increases his sin, the black mark (and stain) in his heart will increase. Here is Allah's Book; (not like their chests). The sins they have earned have corroded and darkened their hearts."
4386-) - “... According to what is reported from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I know some people who, on the Day of Judgment, will bring rewards similar to those of the Tihama mountains and white (that is, pure) rewards, but Allah (Azza wa Jalla) scatters those rewards into dust (that is, destroys them, does not accept them). . Sevban (radiyallahu anh): Messenger of Allah! Tell us their attributes and explain their situation to us, so that we do not become one of them unknowingly. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Be that they are your (religious) brothers and (some people) of your kind. They get their share of worship from the night as you do. And yet, when they are alone in a secluded place with what Allah has forbidden, they break the limits of those prohibitions.) "
4387-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked: Which of the deeds that make him enter Paradise (that is, cause him to enter Paradise) is the most? he was asked. He (that is, the fear of Allah) and the beauty of temperament) said. And to Him: what is the most of the sins that put you in hell? he was asked. He said: two organs: mouth and genitals. '
4388-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Azza wa Jalla will certainly be more happy (that is, contented) for one of you to repent than when he finds that person’s lost animal.”
4389-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If you sin enough to reach the sky and then repent (from them), Allah will accept your repentance.)
4390-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He is more happy (that is, he is pleased) at the repentance of his servant than this man (that is, he is pleased) that that man (who is on a journey) loses a thousand camels in a dry desert. Thereupon, the man sets out to search for his lost camel. Finally, when that search makes the man tired and incapacitated (putting his head on the ground to die due to thirst and heat), he pulls his clothes over his head and covers himself. While he was in that state, he suddenly hears the footsteps of his animal at the place where he lost his camel. Thereupon, he opens the cover he has taken on his face and immediately encounters the riding animal.)
4391-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The one who repents is like the one who has no sin.)"
4392-) - “... According to what is narrated from Anas (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: All his sons commit many sins. The best of those who commit many sins are those who repent a lot.)
4393-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Ma'kil (bin Mukrin) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: I went to Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiy-Allâhu anh) with my father (Ma'kil) and I heard him (i.e. Ibn Mas'ud) saying: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: ) : to feel regret is a repentance.) Thereupon, did you hear the hadith of my father (Ma'kil) Abdullah (Ibn Mas'ud): regretting is a form of repentance) from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)? said. Abdullah (Ibn Mas'ud) replied:
4394-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (Azza wa Jalla) will definitely accept a servant's repentance unless his soul reaches his throat.)
4395-) - “... from (Abdullah) bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); He said: The man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and told him that he had received a kiss from a (unlawful) woman and began to ask about the expiation for this sin. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not say anything to him. Then Allah (Azza wa Jalla): Establish the prayer at both ends of the day, and from night to day. Undoubtedly, good deeds remove evil. This is an advice for those who think well and are advised.) (Hud, 114). Thereupon, the man said: Messenger of Allah! Is this verse only for me? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) : The verse is for those of my Ummah who act upon it. (it is general), he said. "
4396-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The man wasted on himself (that is, he committed excessive sins). Then, on his deathbed, he bequeathed to his sons: When I die, burn my body, then reduce it to ashes and scatter me (my ashes) in the wind and the sea. Because I swear by Allah, if my Lord is able to do it for me, He will surely give me a torment that He has not given anyone. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: They did the same to the man (that is, they fulfilled his will). Then (Allah) said: (Give back) to the ground. At that moment, the man got up and God said to him: What drove him to do this? said. Man: your awe (or your ingenuity) —So my fear of you. My God! said. For this reason, Allah
4397-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A woman went to Hell because of a cat she had tied (imprisoned). Because he did not feed (something) to the cat, nor did he release it to eat from the vermin of the earth, and finally the cat died (of hunger).) Zuhri said: This is so that no man (neglecting his duty of worship and divine mercy) is burned narrowly and that no one despairs (of divine mercy). "
4398-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Dharr(-i Gifârî) (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Praise be to Allah and the Exalted: O my servants! All of you can sin, except those whom I protect (saints). Therefore, ask my forgiveness so that I may forgive you. Whoever among you knows that I am able to forgive and asks forgiveness from me with my power, I will forgive him. Except for those whom I have guided, you are all astray. So seek guidance from me, and I will guide you. All of you are poor, except those I have made rich. Therefore, ask me (supply) and I will provide for you. If the living, the dead, the first, the later, the wet and the dry (i.e. all the servants) were gathered together and were on the heart of my most pious servant (that is, the hearts of all of them were like his heart), in my property (that is, in my sovereignty and reign). ) does not increase (something as much) as a mosquito wing. If they (that is, all the servants) gather and the heart of my most perverted - evil servant (that is, the hearts of all of them are like his heart), a mosquito wing (nothing like) will not be missing from my property. If the living, the dead, the first, the next, the wet and the dry (that is, all the servants) gather and ask (from me) all their needs and wishes, I will not fulfill all their wishes, only one of you from my property will come from the seaside. by passing a sewing needle in and out of the sea, it decreases the sea water as much as it does (in this example, just as the sea water never decreases, by fulfilling all the wishes of the servants, nothing will decrease from the divine treasure). The reason why nothing is missing from my property is this: Surely, I was very generous, my generosity is plentiful. My donation is to say a word (that is, it does not require work, toil). When I wish for something, I simply say "Be" to it. And that will be right away.)"
4399-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Remember the one who cuts off pleasures (and puts an end to it)”. So death (remember a lot). "
4400-) - “... From (Abdullah) bin Omar (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); He said: I was with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). A man from the Ansar came to him and after greeting the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) he said: Rasûlallah! Which of the believers is more virtuous? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The best in terms of it.” The man: Well, which of the believers is more intelligent? she asked. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) : the one who remembers the most and prepared the best for his (life) after death. Those are the wisest ones,) he said. " ". . . According to what is narrated from Abu Ya'la Shaddud bin Aws (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: - A conscious man is a person who enslaves (or takes account of) his soul (against Allah) and does (good) deeds for (life) after death. The helpless man (from beating his soul) is the person who adapts his soul to his desires (that is, he does not prevent his soul from haram). Then he asks (forgiveness) from Allah.)
4402-) - “... from Enes (radiyallahu anh); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went to a young man who was on his deathbed and asked him: How do you find yourself? Young: I hope (for Allah's forgiveness) O Messenger of Allah! And I fear my sins, he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When the hope of forgiveness and the fear of sin come together in the heart of any (believer) servant at the time (on his deathbed), Allah will definitely give that servant what he wishes (forgiveness) and give him what he fears (punishment). makes sure of it.)"
4403-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Angels are present next to the person who is on his bed. When a person becomes religious, the angels say: O beautiful soul (soul) in a beautiful corpse! They say, "Get out (from the corpse) with praise and be given the good news of mercy, beauty and (to meet) the Lord who is not angry." It is said to him all the time until he dies. Then that soul is raised to the sky and the sky (gate) is opened for it. Then who is this? it is asked. The angels who took him say: It is so-and-so. This time by (the angels in charge of Heaven): Hello to the beautiful soul, it was in the beautiful corpse. Enter worthy of praise and be given the glad tidings of mercy, beauty and (to meet) the Lord who is not angry. Then it is said to him continuously until he is taken to the sky where Allah (Azza wa Jalla) is (his decrees are revealed and received by angels). When he (on his deathbed) becomes a wicked man, the (officer) angel: Come out, you filthy soul in a filthy corpse. Come out disgraced and be given the glad tidings of boiling water, the pus of the people of Hell, and various other torments like these. Such (threats) are constantly said to him until he emerges from the evil soul (corpse). Then that soul (i.e. spirit) is taken up to the sky. But the sky (his gate) does not open to him and says: Who is this? is called. It is so-and-so, it is answered. Thereupon: There is no hello to the evil soul, that filthy soul was in the filthy corpse. Return condemned. Because it is said to you that the gates of the sky will never be opened, and then that spirit is sent from the sky (to the earth) and then reaches the grave where the body is found.)
4404-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When the time is in a place, the need – work makes him jump there (that is, it causes him to go to that place on time). Then when he reaches the end of his remaining life, Allah subhanahu takes his soul (there). That place on the Day of Resurrection: O my Lord! This is the (corpse) you entrusted to me, he says.)
4405-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) : Whoever loves to meet Allah, Allah (also) loves to meet him. Whoever dislikes meeting Allah, Allah (also) dislikes meeting him.) Thereupon he said to him: Messenger of Allah! Dislike to meet God. It was said that it is because we do not like to meet death, and none of us like death (what is commanded?). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (It is not like that). This (that is, to love or dislike meeting God) only happens at the moment when a person dies. When a person is given the good news of Allah's mercy and forgiveness on his deathbed, he likes to meet Allah. And Allah loves to meet him. When a person is given the glad tidings of Allah's punishment (that is, he is threatened) on his deathbed, he does not want to meet Allah. And Allah does not like to meet him.)
4406-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "None of you can wish to die because of the harm that has happened to him. If he has to wish for death, he should say: Let me live as long as living is good for me, and kill me when death is good for me.)
4407-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There is nothing that does not rot from a human (corpse) except bone. That (imperishable bone) is the coccyx and the creation of the corpse on the Day of Judgment will be established from that bone.)
4408-) - “... From Hani' Mevla Osman (bin Affan) (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: When bin Affan (radiyallahu anh) stood by a grave, he would cry until his beard was wet (with tears). That's why he said to him: You remember heaven and hell, you don't cry but you cry because of this (fear of the grave)? it was said. Uthman (radiyallahu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): the grave is the first of the hereafter mansions. If the dead get rid of ten (un torment), the next (mansions) will be easier than him. If the dead do not get rid of ten (un torment), the next (mansions) will be more severe than him.) Uthman said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I have never seen a scene as terrible as this.)
4409-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is put in the grave. A Salih (that is, a believer who performs the duty of worship) is seated in his grave without worry and fear. Then I asked him: What religion were you in? it is asked. He replied: I was in the religion of Islam. Then to him: What is that man? He is asked, "His creed and opinion about the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He also said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) He is the Messenger of Allah. He brought us clear signs from Allah. “We confirmed it,” he replies. Then this (believer) said to the dead: Have you seen Allah? it is asked. He replies: No one is worthy of seeing Allah (in the world). After these questions and answers, a window to the fire side opens for him. The deceased looks at him and sees that the flames of fire (from intense heat and congestion) are trying to break and defeat each other. Then it is said to him: Look at the fire in which Allah protects you. Then a window opens for him to the side of heaven. This time, he looks at the adornments and blessings of Paradise, and after it is said to him: This beautiful place is your rank, it is said: You were on sincere faith (in the world), you died on this solid faith, and you will be resurrected on faith (on the Day of Judgment). The person is seated in his grave in horror and fear and asks himself: What religion were you in? it is asked. He replies: Then to him: what is man? He is asked, "His creed and opinion about the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He too was saying a word (that is, that he was a prophet) (about him). I said that word too, he says. Thereupon, a window to the side of Paradise will be opened for him. He also looks at the ornaments of Paradise and the (blessings) in it. Then it is said to him, "Look at Paradise, which he has rejected from you (that is, he has not given you due to his evil deeds). Then a window to the fire side opens for him. This time, he looks at the fire even though some of its flames are trying to break some of them and try to beat them, and then he says to him: This is your place. It is said that you were (lived) on doubt (in terms of believing in Islam), you died on doubt, and you will be resurrected, insha'Allah (on the Day of Judgment), on doubt.)
4410-) - “... According to what is reported from Al-Barâ' bin Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “It makes those who believe firm with firm opinion (i.e., the word martyrdom)” (verse) was revealed about the torment in the grave (i.e., his interrogation). The dead person (in the grave) is asked: Who is your Lord? He answers that my Lord is Allah and my Prophet is Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). It is a vivid expression of the verse of "It makes you strong in the life of this world and in the hereafter (that is, in the grave)". " (Abraham, 27)
4411-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he dies, his destination is shown to him morning and evening. As for the dead people of Paradise, one of the positions of the people of Paradise is shown to him. If he is one of the dead people of Hell, one of the cells of the people of Hell is shown to him. It is said to (every) dead person: Here is your stop until you are resurrected on the Day of Resurrection (or: Here is your place until you are resurrected on the Day of Judgment).
4412-) - “... According to what is reported from Ka'b (bin Malik) al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is a bird whose soul is fed in the trees of Paradise until it returns to its corpse on the day when it will be resurrected."
4413-) - “... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When a dead person enters the grave, the sun is represented (to him) as it is about to set (i.e. an image is shown to him, as if it were time for the Maghrib prayer). Thereupon, the dead man sits down and rubs his eyes and says: Let me pray.)
4414-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The two owners have two horns in their hands. They carefully observe and consider when they will be commanded (by blowing).
4415-) - “... From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): He said; A man took an oath in the marketplace of Medina (My Lord), who chose and preferred Moses over people. Thereupon, a man from the Ansar (to a Jewish person) said: How can you say this word even though we have the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) among us? she raised her hand and slapped him. Then the incident was told to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “And the Trumpet will be blown, and what is in the heavens and what is on the earth will be crushed and destroyed, except for those whom Allah wills. Then the Trumpet will be blown again. (Zumer, 68), he said. Was he one of those whom Allah (Azza wa Jalla) has exempted from being struck and destroyed? And whoever says: I am better (superior) than Yunus bin Metta, would certainly be lying.)"
4416-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Ömer (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); I heard Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saying the following on the pulpit, he said: (On the Day of Judgment, Allah will take over the heavens and the earth which is his property). He closed his palm as he commanded, and then began to open and close). (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: Allah says: I am Cebbar, I am Melik. Where are the tyrants (in the world)? Where are the mutakabbirs?) Abdullah bin Omar said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was making this speech, he was leaning to his right and left. I even saw that the pulpit was shaking from the bottom (up to the top) so much that I asked myself if the pulpit would fall with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). says (and worries) dum. "
4417-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: O Messenger of Allah! How will people be resurrected on the Day of Judgment? I asked. He said: and naked (they will be killed). Me Women too (will they be naked)? said. He said: (Women will also be naked). Me: O Messenger of Allah! So is it unthinkable? I asked. He said: (O Aisha! The hash is so intense that people don't even remember looking at each other (that is, everyone is busy with their own problems out of fear of interrogation and punishment, they are unaware of the situation of others).) "
4418-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: On the day people will be presented to Allah three times (that is, they will be questioned in the presence). The two offerings (that is, the presentation) consist of struggles and excuses. As for the third presentation, the notebooks (in which people's deeds are written) will then fly to the hands (ie, they will be given quickly). Now some will hold (the notebook) with their right hand, and some will hold it with their left hand.)
4419-) - "... According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): "The day when people (they) arose (from their graves) for the Lord of the Worlds (order, reckoning, punishment or reward)" (Mutaffifin, 6) said about the verse: Each of them stands (waiting) soaked in sweat up to the half of his two ears.)
4420-) - “... from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He said: I asked Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) the verse (Ibrahim, 48) on the day (remembering and seeing) that the earth (globe) will be replaced by something other than the earth and the heavens will be replaced. Where will people be that day? said. He said: on it.) "
4421-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said(-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The (bridge) will be placed on the middle of Hell, on thorns (of fire) like the thorns of Sa'dan. Then people will try to pass (over it). Now some of them (pass by) are saved. Some get rid of it (from fire) after being scratched by a thorn. Some of them are thrown upside down in Hell by tripping on that thorn.)
4422-) - “... from Hafsa (radiy-Allâhu anhâ); He said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I really hope that no one among the Muslims will enter the fire of Hell who was present at Badr (harbin) and Hudaybiya (the expedition). Hafsa said: I said: Messenger of Allah! I said, 'There is no one among you who will not go to Hell. This is a final judgment in the sight of your Lord.' (Mary, 71). (Thereupon) Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) : Hafsa!) You are Allah’s: “Then we save those who fear Allah (against Him) and leave the oppressors there altogether.” (Mary, 72) Didn't you hear his command?) "
4423-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: You will come to me (on the Day of Judgment) with your faces, arms and legs illuminated because of the scars of wudu. (This light) is the sign of my ummah and is not found in anyone other than him.)
4424-) - “... From Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) (radiyallahu anh); He said: We were in a dome (that is, a tent made of leather) with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He (us) said: Are you willing to be one-fourth of the inhabitants of Paradise?). We said: He said (this time): Are you willing to be one-third of the people of Paradise?). We said: He said: I swear by (Allah) in whose hand (power) is, I strongly hope that you will be half of the inhabitants of Paradise. The reason is this: Only a Muslim will enter Paradise, no one else will, and you are only like a white hair on the skin of a black ox or a black hair on the skin of a red ox among the polytheists (i.e. unbelievers).
4425-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "One day a prophet comes with two men (as his ummah). Another prophet comes with three people (as his ummah). There will be more or less (the prophet who came with the Ummah) than that. Then to that (everyone) prophet: Did you convey the (religion) to your own people? it is asked. He says: Yes. Then his people were called (to peace) and asked: Did your Prophet convey (religion) to you? is called. They say: No. Thereupon, he asked (to their prophet): Who is your witness (that you conveyed the religion to your people)? is called. He says: Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and his nation. Thereupon, the Ummah of Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was called and asked: Did this prophet convey his (religion to his people)? it is asked. And they say: Yes. Then Allahu ta'ala (to the Ummah of Muhammad): What is your knowledge (that is, how can you know this) that this prophet conveyed the religion to his people? says. They say: Our Prophet (Muhammad) informed us that the prophets (religion of their own people) conveyed it to us, and we confirmed him. Here is my explanation of Allahu ta'ala: Thus, we have made you a good and just nation so that you can be witnesses over all people. May the Prophet (s) be a witness over you. " (Baqara, 143) is the content of the commandment.) "
4426-) - “... From Rifaa al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh): He said: We came back from a journey (or war) with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). At that time, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I swear by (Allah) in whose hand is his soul (power): There is no servant who believes and then does not deviate from the right path, that he will not be included in Paradise. I hope that the people of Paradise (who are the believers of other ummahs) will not enter Paradise until you and your good (= pious) generation settle in residences (mansions) in Paradise, and my Lord (Azza wa Jalla) has promised me to include seventy thousand people from my ummah without any reckoning.) he commanded.
4427-) - "... According to what is reported from Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saying: He promised me to include him in Paradise without torment. Each one (of them) has seventy thousand (persons) and three handfuls with the palms of my Lord (Azza wa Jalla), (that is, more people than my Ummah)."
4428-) - “... According to what is reported from Behz bin Hakim's paternal father (Muawiya bin Hayda al-Kuseyri) (radiyallahu anhum); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (i.e. the Ummah of Muhammadiyah) we will complete seventy ummahs on the Day of Judgment (that is, the number of ummahs reaches seventy with us). We are the last of the nations (in terms of being born) and we are the best.)
4429-) - “... According to what is reported from Behz bin Hakim's paternal father (Muawiya bin Hayda al-Kuseyri) (radiyallahu anhum), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) saying: : (My ummah), you have completed the number of ummahs to seventy. You are the best of nations and the most valuable in the sight of Allah.)
4430-) - “... According to what is reported from Suleiman bin Burayda's father (Burayda bin al-Husayb) (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: His people are one hundred and twenty pure. Eighty (pure) are made up of this ummah, and forty ranks are made up of other ummahs.)
4431-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: We are the last of the nations (in terms of being born) and the first to be accounted for (on the Day of Judgment). It is said (that is, priority is given to this ummah). In this respect, we are the last ones (in terms of coming to the world) (in terms of reckoning on the Day of Judgment and entering Paradise)".
4432-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Burda's father (Abu Musa al-Ash'ari) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "On the Day of Judgment, when the creatures gather, the Ummah of Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) will be allowed to prostrate, upon which they will prostrate for a long time to Allah. Then he said to them: "Raise your heads (from prostration). We have made (infidels) your ransom (for your salvation) from fire as much as your number, it will be commanded.) "
4433-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: This ummah has received mercy (from Allah). His punishment is with his own hands. Then, when the Day of Judgment comes, each person from the Muslims will be given a person from the polytheists and it will be said: This is your ransom from the fire.)
4434-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “There are undoubtedly a hundred mercy. One of them has ordered mercy to be divided among all creatures. Creatures show mercy to one another only because of that mercy, and that's why they become compassionate. The wild animal also takes pity on its offspring because of this mercy. By delaying ninety-nine mercies, Allah will show mercy to His servants on the Day of Judgment with them.)
4435-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Azza wa Jalla created a hundred mercy on the day He created the heavens and the earth, and placed one of them on the earth. It is with this mercy that a mother, her baby, animals and birds show compassion to each other. Allah has postponed ninety-nine mercies until the Day of Judgment. When the Day of Judgment comes, Allah will complete a hundred mercy with this mercy.)
4436-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he created the creatures, he wrote personally for himself: My mercy will prevail over my wrath (that is, he promised to fulfill this promise) "
4437-) - “... From Muâz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh); He said: While I was on a donkey, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed me and said: Muadh! Do you know what Allah's right is over His servants and what is the right of servants over Allah?) I said: And he knows the Messenger better. Rasûl-i Ekrem (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The right of Allah over His slaves is that they worship (and serve) Him and not associate anything with Him. When they do this, the right of the slaves on Allah is that he should not punish them.) "
4438-) - “... From Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); He said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in one of his battles. He (at this time) stopped by a people and asked: (Who are they?). And that people said: We are Muslims. A woman was busy throwing firewood into the tandoor and she had a son with her. When the flame of the tandoor rose, the woman would drive her child away. Then the woman came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Are you the Messenger of Allah? said. He also said: (Thereupon) the woman said (to him): May my mother be sacrificed for you! Is not Allah the most merciful of the merciful? said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (He is the most merciful). Woman: Isn't she more merciful to her servants than a mother to her child? said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (He is more merciful). The woman said: A mother will never throw her child into the fire (that is, how will Allah, who is the most merciful of the merciful, throw some of his servants into the fire). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wept, bowed his blessed head and looked at the ground for a long time. Then, raising his blessed head towards the woman, he said: "Allah will not punish His servants other than the one who strays from the right path and does not deign to obey Him and refuses to say the word Tawhid." "
4439-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); He said, 'No one will enter the fire except the person who is the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). O Messenger of Allah! Who is Shaki? When he was asked, he said: He is a person who does not do any deed for Allah as a worship and does not leave any sin because it is a sin.) "
4440-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); . . . . . . He recited (or chanted) the verse (Müddessir, 56). Then he said: (Azza wa Jalla) (in this verse): I am worthy not to be taken as a god other than Me (that is, not to be associated with me) by avoiding (my punishment). He then said, Whoever fears to take another god with me, I will forgive him.) . . . . . He said about the verse Müddessir, 56: He said: I am worthy of not being associated with anyone other than me by avoiding my punishment, and I am the only one who is worthy of forgiving those who avoid associating with me.)
4442-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Amr (bin al-As) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: A man from my ummah is called (to account) and ninety-nine registers (in which his sins are written) are spread out. Each notebook is as long as the field as far as the eye can see. Then Allah (Azza wa Jalla) (to that person): Will you deny anything of the (sins) written in the records? commands. The servant says: O Lord. Then Allah : did the scribe angels, who recorded (his good deeds and sins), wronged you? commands. Then (again) Allah (Azza wa Jalla) asks: (Do you have any good in return for your sins?) Thereupon, the man will be terrified and will say: (I have no good deed). Then Allah (Azza wa Jalla) wa Jalla) : (There are.) Surely, you have some good deeds with Us and there is no cruelty to you today, he says. Then a sheet of paper is produced for that man, on it, "Ashhadu allâ ilaha illallah wa ashhadu anna Muhammeden abduhu ve Rasûlühu. = I say with my tongue and I confirm with my heart that there is no god worthy of worship-worship except Allah, and I say it with my tongue, and I confirm with my heart that Muhammad is the servant and (last) messenger of Allah. Ekrem (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "O Lord, what is this paper next to these (huge) big notebooks? Allah (to him) says: You will not be persecuted. Then the registers (that is, the big notebooks in which your sins are written) are part of the scales." The word martyrdom is written. The paper on which he is working is put (and weighed) on the other side of the scale. Big notebooks are light and that piece of paper is heavy.) Mohammed bin Yahya said: Bitâka is a piece of paper. The Egyptian people call the paper Bitâka. "
4443-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I have a pool as big as the distance between the Ka'ba and Bayt al-Maqdis (that is, the Masjid al-Aqsa in Jerusalem). It is white as milk, and its vessels are as numerous as the stars. On the Day of Judgment, I will certainly be the prophet with the greatest ummah.)
4444-) - “... According to what is reported from Huzeyfe (bin el-Yemân) (radiy-Allâhu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: My pool is indeed longer than the distance from Eyla to Aden. I swear by Him (Allah) in whose hand is my soul (power) that its vessels are more numerous than the number of stars, and it is certainly whiter than milk and sweeter than honey. I swear by (Allah) in whose hand is my soul (power) that I will fire some men from my pool, just as the man expelled foreign camels from his own pool. (Thereupon, by the Companions): Messenger of Allah! Will you recognize us? he was asked. He said: (Yes. You will come to me with the light of your faces, arms and feet after the ablution mark. This sign will not be in anyone but you.) "
4445-) - “... From Abu Sellam al-Hubsi (Mairitur al-Aswad) (radiyallahu anh); He said: Omar bin Abdilaziz sent me a message and made me call him. So I went to him on the back of a mule. When I finally got to him, he said (to me): Abu Sallam! “We really gave you a hard time getting you up and down here,” he said. Abu Sallam said: It is true, O Emira'l-Mu'minin. Omar bin Abdilaziz : I swear I did not want to torture you. And yet, there is a hadith about the (kevser) pool that I heard from the Prophet's maula Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh) that you narrated. He said, "I like that you told me that hadith with your own mouth (that's why I called you). Abu Sallam al-Hubsi said that I said: "The distance between my pool, Aden and Eyle, according to the narration of Sevban (radiyallahu anh) until (long). It is whiter than milk and sweeter than honey. Their glasses are (many) like the number of stars in the sky. Whoever takes a sip of it will no longer be thirsty for ever. The first of those who came to me by that pool were the poor of the immigrants, whose clothes were dirty (while he was on earth) and whose hair was messy and messy (that is, his head was devastated due to financial difficulties), who could not marry women from wealthy notables and the doors would not be opened to them.) said: Omar (bin Abdilaziz), He cried until his beard was wet. Then he said: But I married many blessed women and doors were opened to me. He said, "There is no solution now, I cannot wash the clothes on my body so that it will get dirty and I will not oil my head so that my hair will be scattered and tangled." "
4446-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "The distance between the two sides of my pool is like the distance between San'a and Madinah, or the distance between Madinah and Amman.)"
4447-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There are gold and silver cups as much as the number of stars in the sky.”
4448-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went to a cemetery and greeted those who were lying in the cemetery as follows: O you who are in the land of the community of believers! We will join you, if Allah wills. Are we not your (religious) brothers? they said. He said: "You are my companions (friends). My brothers are also (believers) who came after me and I am your pioneer on the pool." Companions: Messenger of Allah! How will you recognize those of your nation who have not yet come (to the world)? they asked. “Tell me, if a man had clumsy and sluggish horses in a herd of snow and straight horses, wouldn't the man recognize his own horses?” he asked. The Companions said: (He knows). After the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, they too will come on the Day of Judgment with their faces, arms and feet illuminated due to the traces of wudu, he said: "I am your (and their) leader on the pool." Then (continue your command): the team men will certainly be expelled from my pool, just as the lost camel was expelled (from the water). I will call them (to them) to pay attention, come here. But it will be said (to me): Surely they changed (in religion) after you, and they will continue to return. I will say come on, get away, get away,) he said. "
4449-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The prophet has a prayer that is accepted, and every prophet hastened this prayer (that is, in the world). But I have reserved my (acceptable) prayer for intercession for my ummah. This prayer that I have hidden will be granted to everyone from my ummah who dies without associating anything with Allah.)
4450-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “I am the eldest of the son of Adam (that is, of all people), so there is no boasting. On the Day of Judgment (to be resurrected), I will be the first to emerge (from the grave) by the splitting of the earth. However, there is no boasting. I am the first to intercede and the first to be accepted, and there is no pride. On the Day of Judgment, the Flag of Praise will be in my hand. However, there is no boasting.)"
4451-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Said (-i Hudri) (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: As for the people of Hell (that is, the people of Hell who will stay in Hell eternally), they will certainly neither die nor live in the fire (that is, they will be in constant torment). However, there are some people who are hit by the fire of Hell because of their sins or mistakes, and the fire literally kills them. Finally, when they are (burned) coal, intercession is allowed for them and they are brought in groups and distributed to the rivers of Paradise. Then: (to the people of Paradise): Heavenly ones! It is said to them, pour the waters of the rivers of Paradise on them. Thereupon (when the water is poured out), they sprout (quickly) as the seed in the residue carried by the flood (mud and the like) sprouts.) Upon the command, one of the congregation said: It is as if the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) were in the desert (in terms of knowing the flood conditions). "
4452-) - "... According to what is reported from Jabir (bin Abdillah) (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “My intercession on the Day of Judgment will be for those of my Ummah who commit major sins.) "
4453-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I have been given the choice (free) between intercession and (or) half of my ummah entering Paradise. I chose to intercede. Because intercession is more general and more sufficient. Do you think that my intercession is for the believers who have taqwa (that is, who fear Allah and fulfill their servitude and avoid prohibitions)? No (don't think so). But it (my intercession) is for those (Muslims) who are involved in sinful, wrong and dirty deeds.)
4454-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "They will gather on the Day of Judgment and say: Even if we send an intercessor to our Lord, if our Lord comforts us from this (difficult) place, they will be inspired (by Allah to say this) in their hearts (or they will give due importance to this distress). — This hesitation belongs to the narrator Said—). Then the believers come to Adam (Aleyhisselam) and say (to him): You are Adam, the father of all people, Allah created you by the hand (power) and made his angels prostrate to you. They will say, "Now, intercede for us in the presence of your Lord, that He may (save) us from this (troubled) place". But Adam (Aleyhisselâm): I am not in the position of (intercession) that you say (and Adam is ashamed of this by telling them about his mistake by complaining to them), but go to Noah. He says he is the first messenger sent by Allah to those on earth. Thereupon, the believers reach Noah (Aleyhis Salam). He also says: I am not in the position of (intercession) as you say, (and Noah tells something that he does not know about - which is the wish of his son not to drown in the flood because he is a family member - that he wishes from his Lord and therefore he is ashamed), but Halilu'r-Rahman (that is, Allah) 's friend) says go to Ibrahim (Aleyhisselam). Then the believers reach the prophet Abraham. But I am not in the position of intercession as you say. And he says, "Go to Moses, the servant with whom Allah spoke and gave the Torah." He said: I am not there (in the position of intercession) (and Musa tells that he killed a man without retaliation), but you go to the servant of Allah, his messenger, his word and spirit (called) Isa (Aleyhisselâm). says. Then the believers reach Jesus. He says: I am not in the position of intercession that you say, but go to Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and go to that (exalted) servant whom Allah forgives his past and future mistakes. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The believers will come to me. I will get up and go) (the narrator said: My sheikh narrated the command sentence "And I walk between two rows of believers" from al-Hasan). The narrator said that he then turned to the hadith of Enes (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) (continuing his speech) said: I ask permission to appear in the presence of my Lord. I am allowed. Then when I see my Lord, immediately prostrate. He leaves me in prostration as long as Allah wills. Then (to me): Lift up, O Muhammad! And say, you will be heard; ask, what you want will be given and intercede, your intercession will be accepted, it is commanded. Thereupon, I (raising my head from prostration) praise Him in a way that His Self taught me. Then I intercede (general and private). Then my Lord draws a border (and a frame) for me. And I will include those who stay within that limit (measurement) in Paradise. Then I return a second time (for intercession) and when I see Him, I prostrate myself. Then to me: lift up (ya) Muhammad! Say, you want to rest, what you want will be given and intercede, your intercession will be accepted, it is commanded. Then I raise my head and praise Him in a way that He taught me. Then (again) I will intercede. My Lord draws a border (and a framework) for me (those whom I will intercede for). I will include those who fall within that measure into Paradise. Then I turn (to intercede) a third time, and when I see my Lord, I fall into prostration. My Lord leaves me in prostration for as long as He wills. Then: remove (ya) Muhammad! Say, you will be heard; ask, what you want will be given and intercede, your intercession will be accepted, it is commanded. So I raise my head and praise Him as He taught me. Then I will intercede. My God (again) sets a limit for me. And I will include them in heaven. Then I will return (to the presence of my Lord) for the fourth time: I will say that there is no one left (in Hell) except those whom the Qur'an has imprisoned (that is, that they will remain in Hell eternally). : And Anas bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated to us that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There is no god but Allah, although there is good (iman) equal to the weight of one barley (grain). "Anyone who says will come out of Hell. Likewise, anyone who says "La ilaha illallah" even though there is a grain of good (iman) in his heart, will come out of Hell. Anyone who has an atom's weight of goodness (i.e. faith) in his heart and says "La ilaha illallah" will also come out of Hell.)
4456-) - “... According to what is reported from Osman bin Affan (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Three (groups) intercede on the day: Prophets, then religious scholars, then martyrs.)
4457-) - “... According to what is reported from Ubayy bin Ka'b (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When the day comes, I will be the imam, preacher and intercessor of the prophets. (This is my word) is not a boast.)"
4458-) - “... According to what is reported from Imran bin Husayn (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Some (believers) people will come out of Hell with my intercession (and will enter Paradise. They will be called people of Hell.)”
4459-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abdullah bin Abi'l-Ced'an (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said more than the sons of Tamim (tribe) with the intercession of a man from my ummah ( (believers) people will certainly enter Paradise,) heard him say (and those present): Rasûlullah! Another man (or) you? He replied: (Yes). Abdullah bin Shakik said: I (to Abdullah bin Abi'l-Ced'an:) Did you (did) hear this hadith from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) yourself? said. He said: I myself heard from him. "
4460-) - “... According to what is narrated from Avf bin Malik al-Eshcai (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked (us): Do you know what He has set me free about tonight? We said: And their Messenger is the one who knows (everything) best. He said: "My Lord has given me a choice between including half of my ummah in Paradise and my intercession. I chose to intercede." We: Messenger of Allah! We said, 'Pray to Allah to make us one of those you will intercede for. He said: It is for every Muslim. "
4461-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "This (earthly) fire of yours is a part of seventy parts of the fire of Hell, and you would not have benefited from it (in this world) if it had not been extinguished twice with water (that is, its heat was not removed). There is no doubt that the fire of the world prays to Allah (Azza wa Jalla) that it does not return the heat that has been removed (from it) to him.)
4462-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He complained to his Lord and said: O my Lord! “I ate myself,” he said. Thereupon, Allah allowed him to take two (twice) breaths. One breath in winter, one breath in summer. Here, the severe cold you find is from the ground of Hell, and the fierce heat you find is from its heat.)
4463-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: His fire was burned for a thousand years and turned white. Then it burned for another thousand years and turned red. It was then burned for a thousand years until it finally became pitch black. Now the darkness is as black as the night.)
4464-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The one who enjoys the most from the bounties of the world and lives prosperous will be brought on the Day of Judgment and it will be said, ‘Dip this man in the fire once. Upon this order, after the man was immersed in the fire (once), he said to himself: So and so (person)! Have any blessings come into your hands during the past tense? is called. He says: No blessing has hit me in the past. The one who suffers the most severe distress and trouble (while in this world) will be brought (on the Day of Judgment) and it will be said: Submerge him in Paradise once. Thereupon, that believer will be immersed in Paradise once. Then to him: So-and-so (Mu'min)! Have you had any trouble or trouble during the past tense? is called. And he says: I have not had any trouble or trouble until now.)
4465-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The person (in Hell) will certainly be so large that the female will definitely be larger than the Uhud (mountain) and the size of his body from his teeth is like the size of any of your bodies than his teeth.”
4466-) - “... According to what is reported from Al-Harith bin Ukaysh (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There are such people from my ummah (whose intercession is acceptable) that with their intercession, more people than Mudar (from your tribe) will enter Paradise. Surely, there are some people from my (da'wah) Ummah who are big enough to form a corner of Hell for the fire (burning).
4467-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Crying is sent over his people (that is, by divine command, one cry is enough) and they cry until their tears are gone. Then they bleed. Finally, they form such a hole on their faces, like a canal, that if ships are released into that canal, they will go fast.)
4468-) - “... From Ibn-i Abbas (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) read the verse: "Those who believe, beware of Allah as it is necessary to beware of Allah, and probably die as a Muslim" (Aal-i Imran, 102) and said: If a drop of oleander had been dropped on the ground, that drop It would spoil the means of subsistence (all food items) of the living things on earth. How is the situation of the (people of Hell) who no longer have any food but oleander (hell)?)"
4469-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The fire (a believer) eats the body of the son of Adam, except for the place of prostration (i.e. organs). Allah forbade eating (burning) the artifact (i.e. organs) of prostration to the fire of Hell.)
4470-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: On the day death (like a ram) is brought, it is stopped on the Sirat (bridge) and they are called: O people of Paradise. Those in Paradise (at this call) look with anxiety and fear that they will be taken out of the (beautiful) place they are in. Then it will be said: O people of Hell. They, too, look with joy and contentment in the hope that they will be brought out of the (bad) place they are in. Then (to those in Heaven and Hell): Do you recognize this? it is asked. And they say: Yes, this is death. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Death by being given an order. It is slaughtered on the Sirat (bridge) and then to both the people of Paradise and the people of Hell: You will always remain in the state you are in. It is said that there is no death in him forever.)
4471-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (Azza wa Jalla) I am for my righteous servants (i.e., devout worshipers, shy of forbidden things, morally virtuous believers), which no eye has seen, no ear has heard, and no human I have prepared some blessings that do not go through your heart,)
4472-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Said-i Hudri (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: A span of space in Paradise is better than the earth (globe) and the things on it (that is, the world and all the blessings in it).
4473-) - “... According to what is reported from Sahl bin Sa'd (es-Saidi) (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Even a tiny bit of a whip is better than the world and everything in the world."
4474-) - “... According to what is reported from Muâz bin Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: Paradise is a hundred degrees. Each degree (height) of them is equal to the distance between the sky and the earth. Undoubtedly, the highest of those degrees is Firdevs, and the most virtuous is Firdevs. The Throne is definitely above Firdevs. The rivers of Paradise also flow from Firdevs. Therefore, when you want to ask Allah (Paradise), ask Him for Firdevs.)
4475-) - “... According to what is reported from Usama bin Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anhümâ); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) once said to his Companions: Is there anyone who will strive for Paradise? Undoubtedly, there is nothing equivalent to heaven. I swear by the Lord of the Ka'ba that heaven, in beautiful, solid and high palaces, the brilliance of the face and happiness - in prosperity forever, shining light, fragrant greenery swaying and waving (with the breeze of the wind), robust mansion, flowing river, It consists of plenty of ripe fruit, a well-liked and (shapely) beautiful woman, and a lot of clothing.) The Companions said: We are the ones who strive for it, O Messenger of Allah. He said: Say). Then he encouraged him (his companions) by telling him about jihad. "
4476-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The first group that enters is in the form (bright) on the fourteenth night of the month. Those who enter after them are like the brightest shining star in the sky. They do not make small ablutions, do not make large ablutions, do not blow their nose or spit. Their combs are golden. Their sweat is (like) musk, and their incense (in their censer) is oud. His wives (i.e. wives) are big-eyed houris. Their temperament is above the character of a man (that is, their temperament is the same). They are sixty cubits (height) in the image of their father, Adam (Aleyhisselâm). ... Abu Bakr bin Abi Shayba narrated to us the same hadith (that) narrated by Ibn Fudayl from Umara, with the same deed as Abu Hurayra.
4478-) - “... According to what is reported from Ibn-i Omar (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is a river in Paradise. The two sides of the river are golden. It flows on rubies and great pearls. Its soil is more fragrant than musk. Its water is sweeter than honey and whiter than snow.)
4479-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There is a tree in Paradise that no one can walk under its shadow for a hundred years. Hurayra said: And if you wish, "and the people of Paradise are in a reclining shade. "Read the (fact, verse 30)."
4480-) - “... According to what is reported from Said bin al-Museyyeb (radiyallahu anh): (one day) he met Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) and Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) said to him: Me and you in the Garden of Paradise. He said, 'I ask Allah to bring it together'. (On this) Said: Is there a bazaar? he asked. Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) (also); He (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave me the following news, he said. When its people enter Paradise, they take up positions according to the degree of multiplicity of their (good) deeds. Then they visit Allah (Azza wa Jalla) for a period of time, from the days of the world until Friday. Allah opens His Throne for them and appears to them in a garden from the gardens of Paradise. For the people of Paradise, seats of light, seats of pearl, seats of ruby, seats of zeberced (ore), seats of gold and seats of silver are placed. The lowest of the people of Paradise (in rank) (there is no commoner among them) also sit on musk and camphor heaps (i.e., hills). They do not think that the seats of those sitting on the seats are superior to the places they sit on (so that they do not get upset). Hurayra said: I said: Messenger of Allah! Will we see our Lord (in Paradise)? said. Him: (you'll see). He asked, "Do you have any doubts about seeing the sun and seeing the (celestial) moon on its fourteenth night (that is, when it is full moon?") We said: (We will not doubt it, we will see it publicly). He: (This way, you will not have any doubts about seeing your Lord (Azza wa Jalla) (in Paradise) (that is, you will have the honor of seeing His Essence clearly) and Allah (Azza wa Jalla) will talk (separately) with everyone in that assembly. Allah will say to a man from among you: O Fulan! Don't you remember the day you did such and such? (He will remind him of some of his unfaithfulness in the world—his sins). The man will say: Rabbi! Didn't you forgive me? Thereupon, Allah (to that man) forgives you. You He will say, 'You have attained this rank only through the abundance of my forgiveness.' He will say, 'When the people of Paradise are like this, a cloud will cover them from above and shower them with such a nice fragrance that they have never heard of anything as good as its fragrance. He will say (to them): Get up and go to the treat I have prepared for you and take what you desire - what you desire. (The Prophet said) we will meet. Things that the eyes do not look at, the ears do not hear, and the things that do not pass through the hearts are found in that bazaar. (The Prophet said): Although nothing is sold or bought in that bazaar (that is, everything is free), the things we desire will be transferred for us (to our mansions). The people of Paradise will see each other in that bazaar. A man with a high rank comes and encounters a man who is dûn (that is, low in rank) (There is no deni - mean person among the people of Paradise). The man who is lower in rank likes the dress on the man who is higher in rank - he likes it. However, while the job of liking has not been completed yet, the dress on him becomes more beautiful in his eyes. The reason for this is that no one is allowed to grieve in Paradise. He said: Then we will return to our mansions (from the bazaar). Our wives greeted us: Hello, welcome. And they will say, 'You came with a beauty and fragrance that is superior to the beauty and fragrance when you left us. And we will say: Today we sat in the assembly of our Lord (Azza wa Jalla) who is Jabbar (that is, we were honored with conversation and beauty), and we will say that it is worthy of us to return with the superior beauty and better fragrance you see.) "
4481-) - “... According to what is reported from Abu Umama (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He (Azza wa Jalla) will give seventy-two wives to every man among you whom he has included in Paradise. Two of them are inherited from houris with wide eyes and from those seventy of whom are in Hell. The femininity of all these wives is very sensual and the lust power of every man who is in Paradise is permanent.) bin Khalid hadith; . . . . . . . He said, "Some men will enter Hell (eternally) and, just as Pharaoh's wife (Asiye) will be inherited (on the Day of Judgment), the people of Paradise will inherit their (believing) women." "According to what is narrated from Abu Said-i Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When a person wants a child in Paradise, the fetus, birth (and reaching maturity) of the child is only one thing, as he wishes. it will be on the hour.)"
4483-) - “... According to what is reported from Abdullah bin Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: I know of the last person who will come out of Hell and the last person who will enter Paradise. (That person) is a man crawling out of Hell, it will be said (by Allah) onat Go and enter Paradise. Then the man will go to heaven, but to him it will seem like heaven is full. The man turned around and said: Rabbi! He will say, I found heaven full. Allah will say (to him): Go to Paradise. He will reach heaven too. But heaven will (again) appear full to him, and he will return again. Then: Lord! He will say, "I found heaven full." Allah Subhanahu will say to him: Enter Paradise. He will (again) reach Paradise and (again) it will seem to him that Paradise is full. Again he said: Lord! He will say, "Paradise is full, without a doubt." Then Allah said (to him): Enter Paradise. For surely (there) the world and ten times the world is for you (or certainly ten times the world for you), he will say. The man said: Rabbi!) Are you mocking me (or laughing at my mind) even though you are the sole ruler? bin Mas'ud said: (By Allah) I saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) smiling (while he was saying the end of this hadith) while his molars were visible. Mas'ud continues his words) It was said that this man is the lowest of the people of Paradise. "
4484-) - “... According to what is narrated from Enes bin Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he asks for Paradise (from Allah) three times, Paradise will say: O Allah, include him in Paradise. And whoever asks (Allah) to be protected from the fire of Hell three times, the fire of Hell will say: O Allah, protect him from the fire of Hell.)
4485-) - “... According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There is no one who does not have two mansions: One mansion is in heaven, another mansion is in hell with fire. Therefore, when a man dies and enters the fire, the people of Paradise inherit his mansion (in Paradise). Those who have these attributes of Allahu ta'ala are the heirs. " (Mu'minun, 10) is a decree confirmed by the commandment)."
