1-) From Ibn Shihab (Az-Zuhri):  b. Abdulaziz delayed his (asr) prayer one day. At that time, Urve b. Zubayr (to warn him) narrated the following hadith: One day in Kufa, Mugire b. Branch At that time Mugîre b. The branch was appointed by Hazrat Umar as the governor of Kufa. He had delayed his (asr) prayer. Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari,  who came to him at that time, said: Why did you do this, Mugire? Don't you remember, one day Gabriel came and offered the noon prayer. Then the Messenger of Allah did it. Then he performed the (Asr) prayer, and so did the Messenger of Allah. Then he performed the (evening) prayer, and the Messenger of Allah also performed it, then he performed the (ish) prayer, and the Messenger of Allah also performed it. Then he performed the morning prayer, and so did the Messenger of Allah. After that, (Gabril) said: "You have been commanded with these." he said. That is, you have been commanded to perform the daily prayer at these five times. In another narration, Jibril said: "You have been commanded to convey this." on Umar b. Abdulaziz: Urve, think carefully about what you are saying; Was it Jibril who told the Messenger of Allah about the times of prayer?' she asked. In Urwa: Bashir b. Abi Mas'ud narrated from his father like this." Bukhari, Mevakîtu's-Salat,  9/1; Muslim, Masâcid, 5/166,187. 
1-) The entire prayer, in which only one rak'ah is performed at the end of the time, is considered an act, not an accident. 1-) Whether it is with the naked eye or the observation methods of modern science, the main thing is the Vision of the Crescent. 
1-) “Start fasting when you see the crescent moon. When you see the Shawwal crescent, stop fasting. If the weather is cloudy, complete the month for 30 days.” The hadith-i  sharifs do not prohibit the determination of the first crescents of lunar months by calculation; It shows that Muslims are not obliged to learn the fine calculations of the movements of the moon in order to perform their worship such as fasting, pilgrimage, sacrifice, fitr alms, and Eid, and that the way of RU'YET, which can be known and applied by the common people, can be used for this purpose. 
1-) In the hadith: "Do not start fasting until you see the crescent moon. Do not stop fasting and celebrate Eid before you see the crescent moon. If the weather is cloudy and you cannot see the crescent, appreciate the moon for 30 days.” has been commanded. In another narration: “Start fasting when you see the crescent moon. When you see the crescent moon, stop fasting and celebrate Eid. If it is cloudy and you cannot see the crescent, appreciate it, that is, complete the number of days to 30”, and no mention is made of the calculation and the information that the astrologers will give. On the contrary, it was ordered that the crescent be seen, and if it could not be seen, the month would be completed in 30 days. If it were permissible to act with calculations, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) would not have ordered the completion of 30, he would have said “apply to those who can calculate”. 1-) The great majority of Islamic scholars who lived in various centuries defended the view that the vision should be taken as a basis in the determination of lunar menstruation and that calculus (astronomy) should not be respected. On the other hand, in every century, there were scholars who adopted and defended the view that it is possible to determine the beginning of the month by calculations in accordance with religious criteria, besides vision, and that the announcements of Ramadan and Eid are permissible according to the calculations made. In fact, most of the scholars who insisted on vision did not adopt the method of calculation, not because they denied the value of calculus, but because the science of astronomy was insufficient in many subjects in their own time, the few who knew calculus, and the Muslims would be in trouble if this way was adopted. Scholars who grew up in later centuries and adopted the same way -often without investigating the real reason why the previous ones insisted on vision -adhered to the way they advocated. Since all the movements and ranges of the Moon can be known down to the smallest details and can be easily calculated, and the place and time of the first sighting of the crescent can be known with certainty in accordance with religious criteria, astronomy should be respected in the determination and announcement of lunar menstruation. However, based on the idea of keeping a religious tradition alive, it is also possible to observe the crescent according to the procedure by authorized and responsible authorities. If the calculations are based on the extent to which the crescent can be seen from the earth, there will be no trade-off  between the calculation and this observation, on the condition that the discord is not respected. 
1-) Director and Imam of Muhammad al-Alvini  Islamic Cultural Center 1-) Chief and Chief Judge of Cevher es-Siddiki  High Court 1-) Prof. Professor of Oriental Studies at M. Hamidullah University 1-) Dr. Dean of the Faculty of Literature and Islamic Sciences at Suphi Salih University and Deputy Chairman of the Supreme Council of Religious 
Affairs 1-) Muhammed Ali al-Isa  Undersecretary of the Court of Appeal and Chairman of the Board of Trustees 1-) Dr. Abdus-Samet  el-Kadhi  University, Dean of Faculty of Science 1-) Ahmed Hammani Chairman of the Religious Board 1-) Dr. Head of Kafravi Affairs 1-) Ziyaeddin Babahan Head of Muslims of Asia and Kazakhstan 1-) Sheikh ÿbrahim al-Habib  Kadÿ'l-kudatÿ  1-) Head of Tayyar Altÿkulaç Affairs 1-) Dato ÿeyh Abdülmuhsin Mufti 1-) Salih Özcan 
1-) A. Muhammed Ali al-Kasimi  and Undersecretary of the Presidency of Religious Affairs 1-) Dr. Eminullah Veziri General Manager of Affairs 1-) Afghanistan 1-) Dr. Yusuf al-Khalifa  Abu Bakr Undersecretary of the Ministry of Affairs and Foundations 1-) M. al-Habîb  al-Hoce  Mufiti and Zeytuniyye Shari'a Faculty Professor 1-) Yusuf Ahmed es-Sÿddÿkî  High Court of Appeals President. Asst. 1-) Dr. Professor of Arabic Language and Islam at Muhammed Ishak University 1-) Abdulaziz b. Director General of Abdullah Copyright and Translation Institute and Professor of Karaviyyin University 1-) Feyyaz Abdullatif en-Necm  Associate Professor of Science Faculty 1-) Rifat Mustafa Mufti 1-) If a person dies and leaves his wife, parents behind, his wife gets one-fourth,  and his mother gets one-third  of the remaining property after his wife gets her share. This is a quarter of the entire estate. 1-) Talaq of a drunk takes place. The majority of Shafi'i imams hold this view. 1-) The sale of babies in the womb of pregnant camels, 1-) In order for the sale of money of the same type to be permissible, the amounts must be equal and in cash. Such is the buying and selling of gold and gold, and silver and silver. 1-) You lend money for the sake of Allah. God will be pleased with you and reward you. 1-) Either four witnesses proving that the criminal committed adultery, 1-) It is haram in its own right, not because it causes drunkenness. Because the Qur'an is described as "rics = dirty". 
2-) Urve says: Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha) told me: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform the afternoon prayer before the sun rose on the wall of my room.” When the sun rises, its light hits the floor of the room first, and as the sun descends to the west, it rises to the wall of the room. With the above statement, our mother Aisha means that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) used to perform the afternoon prayer at its first time. said. Bukhari, Mevakitu's-Salat,  9/1; Muslim, Mesâcid, 5/167; Shaybani, 3. 2-) If a disabled person's excuse is removed within a time enough to perform one rak'ah at the end of the time, the prayer of that time becomes a debt on that person. Then it must crash. If the apology had continued, there would be no debt on it. The views of the scholars on this subject can be summarized as follows: Most of the scholars hold the view in the first item, Some scholars are of the opinion that all rak'ahs will be made up, and some say that one rak'ah performed in time, other rak'ahs or rak'ahs are accidental. According to Abu Hanifa, as in the second article, the hadith sharif explains the situation of disabled people. The apologies in question here are insanity, fainting, menstruation, puerperium etc. is If a person who has one of these excuses gets rid of his excuse at the end of the time, within a time when one rak'ah can be performed, the prayer of that time must be made up by that person. 
In addition, Abu Hanifa is of the opinion that the morning prayer, which is performed one rak'ah in time and the other rak'ah at sunrise, will be invalid. The following rule in the fiqh method also supports Abu Hanifa: It is not permissible to perform a prayer that is fard to be performed at a perfect time, but at a makruh time. In addition, if the apology gets up before the time is up, the prayer of that time becomes a debt. Expressing it as a rak'ah above is according to the majority. (See al-Manhel). 
2-) Our Prophet (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) forbade believing in the astrologers and preoccupying with the knowledge of the astrologer. Ibn Abidin, Mecmuatu'r-resail,  I, 245. Istanbul, 1325. 
2-) In order for the astronomers to give credence to the Lunar New Years they have determined by calculation, they must base their determination on the fact that the Crescent is actually visible on the horizon after the sun has set and in the absence of any obstructions to vision, this vision is called the "Judgmental Vision". is called. 2-) Science of nucum, which is forbidden by hadith, is not today's positive and modern science of astronomy. It is impossible that astronomy, which is today's positive science, is forbidden in Islam. What is pointed out and prohibited here is that he tries to derive news and judgments about the future from the movements of the stars and to obtain some superstitious information. As a matter of fact, scholars have defined the term "MUNECCIM" in this and similar hadiths as "the person who gives news of the future from the rising and setting of the stars," and the term "SEAN" as "the one who foretells something before it happens or makes a judgment about the unseen". agc, 245. The people mentioned in these hadith-i  sharifs are the polytheist Arab soothsayers and their caretakers, who claim that all power and authority belong to celestial bodies. Indeed, there is no doubt in the disbelief of those who believe in them and follow them. Everyone should seek refuge in Allah from attributing disbelief to those who believe that the calculus and the stars are some signs and means in obtaining some information and act on the information they have obtained. see, ibid,1, 246. 
2-) The limit to be taken as a basis for the beginning of the lunar months should not be the time of conjunction (conjunction), but the time when the Moon can be seen from the earth for the first time in its crescent state. Because, the words "RUYET" and "CRESCENT" are used in the verses and hadiths on this subject. As it is known, in the case of social gathering, the Moon is from anywhere on the earth. 
vision is not possible. Crescent means the image of the Moon in a thin arc from the earth. 
2-) Dr. Ali Eba Hüseyin Archives of Documents Expert 2-) 
Prof. Abdulhamid Tahir University Rector 
2-) Abdulkadir Sönmez Faculty Member of Theology Faculty 2-) Ibn 
Abdurrazÿk Kingdom Muvakkit 2-) Ömer Beÿir M. en-Na'me  Uyanÿÿ 
Mosque Imam-i  Preacher 2-) Abdülkerim Azlun 2-) Abdurrahim Islamic 
University Faculty of Sharia 2-) Associate Professor ) Bahrain 2-) 
Mustafa Kemal et-Terzi  b. Head of al-Hoce  Affairs and Inspector General 
of Religious Education at the Ministry of Education 2-) Dr. Head of 
Department of Astronomy at Muhammed Enver Betti University 2-) Head of Foreign Relations Department of Azzam Ali Akbar 
Muslims 2-) Dr. Professor of Mathematics at Mohammed Abdulcebbar University 

2-) A. Hamdi Kasaboÿlu Chairman of the High Council of Affairs 2-) 
Abdurrahman Abdulvehhab al-Faris  Ministry Undersecretary of Islamic Affairs 2-) al-Emin  
Muhammed Ahmed Kaura General Secretary of Islamic University 2-) Sayyid Ali Sayyid al-
Hashimi Shari'i Qadi 2 -) If a woman dies and leaves her parents with her husband behind, 
the husband gets half of the estate and the mother gets a third of the surplus after the husband gets his right. This is one-sixth  of the 
entire estate. Almighty Allah has said: If the deceased has a child, each parent is given one-sixth  of the property left behind. If he has no 
children and his parents are heirs, one third of it belongs to the mother. If he has siblings, then one-sixth  is your mother's." The application 
was made on the basis that Nisa had 12 two or more. 

2-) Talaq of a drunken person does not occur. This is also the opinion of Müzeni Osman b. Affan, Rabia and Yahya b. This is how it 
was reported from Said al-Ansari.  The main evidence in the occurrence of talaq is this: Talaq also occurs when the person whose 
hand is cut off due to theft, and who should be retaliated for killing someone unjustly, also occurs. Abu'l Walid says: The above-
mentioned drunk has not completely lost his consciousness. Whether he is in his right mind or not is evident by the fact that he can do 
what he wants the way he wants. If a drunk who has not completely lost his consciousness, kills a person unjustly, retaliation is required by 
consensus. If the man is drunk to the point of fainting, has never been sane, and does not know what he is doing, the talaq given by him is 
not valid. In any case, such a person is not capable of hitting, nor can he mean to kill or anything else. 

2-) You give a loan to please my friend. Then your friend will like you. 
2-) Sale of offspring of camels, 2-) If the breeds are 
different, the amounts may be different, provided that they are paid in advance. It's like buying silver for gold. 
2-) Whoever denies that it is haram leaves the religion. 
2-) Or the criminal's own confession. If the offender continues in his confession, the penalty is applied. 
3-) Atâ b. Yasar narrates: The man came to the presence of the Messenger of Allah and asked about the time of the morning prayer. His Messenger 
Ekrem (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) did not answer. The next day, he performed the morning prayer at dawn; A day later, when it 
got dark, he did it. The time for the morning prayer begins after the dawn and is performed until the sunrise approaches. Then: Where 
is the one who asks about the time of the (morning) prayer?» he commanded. When the man said: "I am O Messenger of Allah"; This 
is the time between the two times.” he commanded. This hadith is mursal; It came from Enes as a mawsul. Nesai, Adhan 7/12 3-) Knowledge 
of nucum consists of imagination and guesswork. Neither precise knowledge nor victorious means conjecture. For this reason, this science 
cannot be relied upon in the determination of the lunar months. 

3-) Calculation and ilm-i  nücüm, which the late jurists said would not even express the victorious opinion, considering it as consisting 
of hadds and guesses, was perhaps the first and very limited knowledge of this science, not today's calculation and astronomy. 
Today, the results and calculations of the science of astronomy are certain. 
3-) For the determination of the lunar month heads, seeing the crescent from any part of the earth (or knowing this situation by calculation) 
should be considered sufficient, and the condition that this region should be within the borders of Islamic countries should not be sought. 
Because in our century, there are many Muslims all over the world. If the vision outside the borders of Islamic countries is not respected, the 
unity of Ramadan and Eid will not be achieved between Muslims living in these regions and Islamic countries. 

3-) In order for the crescent to be seen, two basic conditions must be met. The angular distance of the Sun and the Moon after the 
conjunction (conjunction) should not be less than 8 degrees. As it is known, Ru'yet begins between 7 and 8 degrees. A consensus has 
been reached in terms of precaution in taking 8 degrees as the basis. The angular value of the Moon's height above the horizon at 
sunset should not be less than 5 degrees. On this basis, it is possible to see the crescent with the naked eye in normal situations. 

3-) Dr. Director of Muammer Dizer Observatory 
3-) Belgium 
3-) Salih Muhammed al-Ujayri 
3-) Muhammed Hayr b. Hajj Medical Islamic Commission Undersecretary of Astronomy 3-) 
Muhammed Alluÿ Institute, Head of Geophysics Department 3-) When genders are the same, 
it is not permissible to take a difference in quality. Again, they must be equal. 
3-) You lend money to buy unlawful goods with your halal property, which becomes interest. O Abu Abdurrahman, how do you order me 
to do it?" When Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) replied: I advise you to tear up the page (where that condition is written) (that is, 
cancel that condition). If he pays you as much as you give, accept it. If you give less than you give, you will get reward and reward when you 
receive it. If he voluntarily gives more than you give, that too is a thank you. Again, by lending him a loan, you will get the reward and reward of 
giving a respite.” 

3-) Sale of the offspring of the offspring to be born. Shaybani, 776. 
3-) Galiz is like dirt. If the palm of your hand gets on your clothes, body and the place where you are going to pray, it will prevent prayer. 
4-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha) says: When the women returned to their homes, clad in their veils, after the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 
had performed the morning prayer, they were not yet recognized from the dark. Bukhari, Mawakitu's-Salat,  9/37; Muslim, Mesâcid, 5/232 
Aisha: She wants to say that the morning prayer is early. 

The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) would often perform the morning prayer early, and sometimes it would be late. Imam Shafii (rahimahullah) says that it is best to pray early, and Imam Abu Hanifa recommends that it be done when it is a little dark -for the congregation to increase. It is understood from this hadith that women continued to attend the mosque in the Age of Bliss. 4-) In all countries that participate in the night of the countries where the crescent moon is seen for the first time after the group following the meeting, this vision should be followed and the day following that night should be counted as the first day of the new lunar month. Dispute-i  metal should not be respected for the sake of unity. In fact, with the exception of the Shafi'i madhhab, the opinion of the majority in the other three madhhabs is that the discord-i  metali should not be respected. These are the proposals and thoughts of the Presidency of Religious Affairs and its President. And the Joint Conference Decisions Adopted in the Determination of the Holidays, two separate commissions, namely the "Religious Commission" and the "Astronomy Commission", were established among the participating scientists. Each of them has studied the papers presented on the subjects within their specialization. After detailed and lengthy discussions, the conference took the following decisions unanimously in its last session. 
4-) A certain place is not necessary for the Crescent to be Rü'yet. If a Vision of the Crescent is possible in any part of the Earth, it would be correct to conclude that the Moon has started on that basis. In order to ensure the unity and solidarity of the Islamic world, the announcement of the vision should be made by the observatory to be established in Mecca in accordance with the determinations of the Joint Hijri Calendar indicated in the following article. 4-) It is not necessary for all Muslims to learn astronomy and fine calculations for the calculation and determination of the crescent moons of Ramadan, Shawwal and Dhul-Hijjah.  As a matter of fact, not everyone was held responsible for searching for the crescent, and the responsibility of others was removed when a few people, even one or two people, looked for the crescent and saw it. Especially nowadays, calculation has become easier than vision and much more practical for societies. In this respect, the determination of the crescent by calculation is not a burden and hardship on Muslims, but rather a convenience. 4-) Determining the times of religious duties by calculation makes it difficult to carry out religious decrees due to the scarcity of those who can calculate. Religion is convenience. For this reason, the determination of prayer times is based on simple principles that can be easily applied by both the scholar and the ignorant. 4-) Bangladesh 4-) When the genders are the same, the weights of those used as money and those used as jewelry such as necklaces, earrings and bracelets should still be equal. (Mavsili, al-Ihtiyar,  Vol. 2, p. 39). 4-) It is not a property that has value for a Muslim. For this reason, trading is not permissible. This hadith is one of the proofs of this. 
5-) Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu  anh) narrated that the Messenger of Allah said: “A person who can catch up to one rak'ah of the morning prayer before the sun rises will have performed the morning prayer on his own time. Whoever catches up with one rak'ah of the afternoon prayer before the sun sets, will have performed the afternoon prayer in its own time." Buhari, Mevakîtu's-Salat,  9/28; Muslim, Masâcid, 5/232. Ebu's-Seâdât  ÿbnül-Asîr  says: This provision about reaching the prayer; Although they are not specific to these two prayers and are included in all prayers, the reason why these two times are stated is as follows: These two times are the beginning and the end of the day. If the sun rises or sets after performing a part of the prayer, the person performing the prayer thinks that the time has come and the prayer is broken. At the same time, it is forbidden to pray at sunrise and sunset. If the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) had not declared that the prayer of a person who catches up with one rak'ah of the afternoon and morning prayers is valid, the person performing the prayer would have thought that his prayers were invalidated by the expiry of these two times. In order to avoid this misunderstanding, the Messenger of Allah 
explained two times. Two conclusions emerge from the hadith: 
5-) The fact that lunar months are fractional according to calculation does not contradict the understanding that some months are 
considered to have 29 days and some to have 30 days. As a result of the calculation made according to the measure of vision, the 
lunar months are sometimes 29, sometimes 30 days. 

5-) A calendar based on the criteria mentioned in the 2nd, 3rd and 4th articles should be prepared for each lunar year by the religious and 
astronomy scholars and the observatory authorities. The calendar committee will meet periodically every year to adopt the «Draft Joint 
Calendar», the first meeting will be held in Istanbul in March 1979, in Rebiul'ahir 1399. 

5-) According to the calculation, the lunar month is neither 29 nor 30, but 29.5 days, that is, it is fractional. However, fasting is based 
on a full-day  measure. 
5-) Turkey 5-) 
Even if he is not drunk, he who drinks wine gets whipped. (See Mavsili, al-Ihtiyar,  vol.4, p.99). 
6-) Abdullah b. Umar's freedman, Nafi, says: Umar b. Al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh) wrote to his governors: “To me, your most important duty 
is prayer. Whoever performs it on time—continuing—has  preserved his religion. And whoever neglects his prayers, naturally neglects his 
other duties even more.” Then he wrote the following: prayer, the shadow of something fay-i  zevalin Fey-i  zeval is the shortest shadow of any 
object when the sun is directly overhead. A cubit is approximately 60 cm. From the beginning of a cubit outside, pray until your shadow is 
doubled. Pray while the sun is still high and white. After the prayer, before the sun goes down, a horseman's two or three leagues is three 
miles. A League is three miles. Let a mile be as long as it can travel, which is approximately 1609 meters. do it when the sun goes down. of red 
(evening dawn) Dawn (evening dawn, group) is the redness that appears on the horizon after evening. from its disappearance until a third of 
the night. Isha prayer can be performed until dawn (Fajr-i  Sadiq is born). However, it is sunnah and virtuous to perform it before going to bed. 
For this reason, Hazrat Umar condemns those who sleep without praying and curses them. Do not let sleep be in the eyes of those who go to 
bed without praying. Let them not sleep in those who go to bed without praying. Do not let sleep enter the eyes of those who go to bed without 
praying. Pray the morning prayer when the stars are bright before they set.” 

6-) Calculating and determining the crescent moon is not a jurisprudential science, it is a science of inference. Insistence belongs to science, people of science and mood. 
Determining the crescent by calculation means forcing the people to imitate blindly and depriving them of the pleasure of 
knowledge. al-Jamiu's-Sahih,  II, 229, Istanbul, 1315; Muslim, al-Jamiu's-Sahih,  II, 579 (Verification: M. 
Fuat Abdulbaki), Cairo, 1375/1955; Abu Dawud, as-Sunan,  I, 543, Egypt, 1371/1952; al-Tirmidhi,  al-Camiu's  Sahih, III, 72 (Verification: M. 
Fuad Abdulbaki), Egypt, 1953; Ibn Mace, es-Sunen,  I, 259 (Review: M. Fuad Abdulbaki), Egypt, ed-Darimi,  es-Sunen,  II, 3, Daru Ihyai's­sunnati'n-nebeviyya,  ta. an-Nawawi,  Sharhu Sahihi Muslim, VIII, 188 -189; Beirut, 1392/1972.. 

6-) Although it is rationally possible for all Muslims to see the crescent and attain the pleasure of divine knowledge, it has never happened in 
practice. There is no difference in the result between imitating the seer and imitating the account and the informer. 
6-) Algeria 6-) 
The above-mentioned  Calendar commission will consist of representatives of the following countries. It is not necessary for all members 
to be present for the meeting of the Algeria, Indonesia, Iraq, Qatar, Kuwait, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Turkey Commission. 

7-) Abu Suhayl relates: Umar (radiyallahu anh) wrote to Abu Musa al-Ash'ari:  Perform the noon prayer when the sun returns from the hill (after 
the zenith time), in the afternoon when the sun is bright, before it turns yellow, and in the evening when the sun goes down. 
Delay Isha until bedtime. Perform the morning prayer while the stars are bright before they subside, and read two suras from the Mufassal 
surahs in the morning prayer. The detailed surahs are the surahs from Hujurat to Abese. From Bakara to Tawba, from "Tival" (long surahs), 
from "Takwir" to "Nas", they are called "short", that is, short suras. 

7-) The hadith-i-sherîf,  "When you see the crescent, start fasting...", "Whoever among you knows for sure that Ramadan has started, let 
him fast." It is not correct to see the word "Knowledge" mentioned in the verse meaning as a classifier by vision. The important thing is to 
access this information. This can be done by vision or by calculation. 
The command in the hadith is for guidance, not for body. It shows the limit to start Ramadan and celebrate Eid. The determination of this limit 
can be done by observing the crescent, by confirming the vision, or by applying calculation. The purpose of the Shari'ah is not to show the 
crescent, but to start the fast by determining the crescent moon or to have iftar. In this respect, it would not be appropriate to see the 
aforementioned hadith as limiting the path of knowledge indicated in this verse with vision. Allah Almighty has created the entire universe in a 
certain order. 
This unchanging order and order existing in the universe is called "SUNNETULLAH" Fatir period, 35th in the language of the Qur'an. The 
sun, the moon and the stars have also obeyed Allah's command in this unchanging order. Surah al-Araf,  54, It is up to the son of man to 
make the necessary matching and research and grasp the secret of the unchanging order in the universe. As a matter of fact, in the Qur'an: 
He is the One who made the moon luminous and luminous, and arranged the places of residence on the moon so that you may know the 
number of years and the reckoning. Allah has created them only according to the truth... His verses are long for the people who know. 

explains at length. In the alternation of night and day, there are signs in what Allah has created in the heavens and the earth for those who fear Him.” Yunus sursi, 6-6 is commanded. in another verse of galilee: "The sun and the moon act according to a certain and fixed calculation." er-Rahman  time, 5 was commanded. Similarly, in the first of these verses, it is explained that camera ranges are assigned so that people can calculate months and years. In addition, it was encouraged to learn the movements of the Sun and the Moon and to attach importance to astronomy in order to understand the divine power and greatness. In the verse, it is stated that the Sun and the Moon do not act randomly, but in accordance with a fixed order and calculation. In the face of this clarity in the scriptures, to take a negative attitude against today's astronomy, which can detect the movements of the sun and the moon down to a split second, to show exception and to insist only on RU'YET by not making use of this element in the determination of religious days, is to act against the spirit of the Qur'an and the Sunnah. Our Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said in a hadith: "We are an illiterate nation. We can neither write nor calculate. All we need is to know that the month is sometimes 29 days, sometimes 30 days.” has been commanded. al-Bukhari,  ibid., II, 229; Muslim, ibid., II, 579; Miras Kamil, Tecriil-i  Sarih translation, VI, 308 (Hadith no: 908) Istanbul, 1945 with the hadith-i  sheriff "Start fasting when you see the crescent of Ramadan". Have iftar when you see the Shawwal crescent. Complete the month to 30 days when the crescent cannot be seen due to weather and atmospheric conditions.» If the hadith-i  sharif in the meaning of the word is analyzed together, it is seen that the reason why the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used RU'YET to determine the beginning of the lunar months was the lack of knowledge of the writing and the movements of the moon in the society of that day. It would not be right to insist on the path of knowledge shown in accordance with the conditions and possibilities of today's society and to act independently in the face of the results of positive science that Islam encourages on every occasion. This hadith-i  sharif clearly shows that showing the way to watch the crescent moon in the determination of lunar months is a necessity dictated by the conditions of that day. As you can see, the hadith is related to an illness. In other words, he preached the rule of seeing the crescent for a reason. Because; The purpose of the Shari is fasting, iftar and its timely performance. The determination of the time by the sighting of the crescent is not His purpose. Religious decrees are in two parts: Mekâsÿd and “Vesâil”. Provisions such as fasting in the month of Ramadan and making a foundation in Arafat on the first day of Shawwal are maqas; The methods to be applied to determine the days and times when these worships will be performed are vesâil. The provisions of the religion, which are included in the instrumental part, can change with the change of time, place and conditions. Because these are not the purpose, but the means that lead to the purpose. The fuqaha declared that "Shar'i rulings depend on causes and reasons. When the cause is fixed, the judgment is also fixed. When the malady disappears, the rule attached to this affliction also disappears.” See. Mustafa Ahmet Ez Zerka, al-Fiqhü'l-Islami  ff sevbihil-Cedid,  IT, 905, Dimask, 1395/1965 There are many examples in Islamic law. I find it appropriate to mention a few. Zayd b. According to the narration of Khalid al-Juheni,  one of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) asked the verdict of lukata (that is, the lost) and the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) kept it with him for a year and announced it, if he did not find his owner within a year. declared that what is lost will belong to the one who finds it. The same person asked the verdict of the lost sheep, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied with the same meaning. Later, when he asked about the lost camel, he said: “What do you want from it... That animal has a water bag and a sole to walk around on. It can shelter itself until its owner is found.” al Bukhari, ibid., III, 93; Muslim, ibid:, III, 1346; Malik, al-Muwatta,  II, 759, Cairo, 1370/1951. has been commanded. According to the hadith, lukata, which will perish if not taken and preserved by the finder, should be taken from the place they are found and declared, and animals such as camels that can protect themselves against predators and continue their lives until they are found by their owners should be left to their own devices. This practice continued until the caliphate of Hazrat Uthman. Hazrat Uthman ordered that the lost camels should be preserved by the finder, sold if necessary, and that the sale price be paid when the owner emerges. See. Malik, ibid, II, 759 Hazrat Osman saw that the morality of the people and society began to deteriorate, and he wanted to prevent the lost camels from falling into the hands of a thief with such a precaution. Although the precaution seems to be contrary to the above order of our Master Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam), in reality it is in accordance with Shari’s purpose and purpose. Because what is rebellious in this is to save the property of the owner from destruction and ensure that it falls into his hands. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Do not write anything other than the Qur'an from me," fearing that the Sunnah and his own words might be confused with the Qur'an. Whoever has done such a thing should destroy him.” Muslim, ibid., IV, 2298; ed-Darimi,  ibid., 1,119 said. In accordance with the prohibition, hadith-i  sharifs were not captured in writing in the eras of the Companions and Tabiun, but were transmitted orally transmitted and memorized. After the copies of the Quran were spread all over and settled in the memories, the reasons that required the writing of the sunnah and hadith disappeared, and the caliph Ömer b. Abdulaziz ordered the determination of the sunnah in writing, and Islamic scholars considered it wajib to determine the sunnah in writing. Because saving it from being wasted is only possible by writing. The practice of giving zakat to the muellefe-i  kulûlu, which is mentioned in the 60th verse of the chapter of at-Tawba,  was stopped by the ijtihad of Hadrat Umar, and this ijtihad of Hadrat Umar was not rejected or denied by any of the companions. There has been a consensus on not giving zakat to muellefe-i  kulûb. al-Merginani,  al-Hidayc  maa Fethü'l-kadir,  II, 14, 
In the hadith-i  sharifs about Egypt (Bulak) 1315, it is ordered that the exchange of gold and silver with hands is made by weighing scale, and wheat, barley, dates and salt with scales. To see the hadiths on the subject collectively, see Abu Cafer'it-Tahavi,  ÿerhu Meânil-âsar,  IV, 4 and IV, 65-68; Eÿ-ÿevkanî,  Neylü'l-evtar,  V. 202-208, Egypt, 138ÖA961. For this reason, Hanafi mujtahids, especially 
Abu Hanifa, Abu Yusuf and Imam Muhammad, "even though the people have changed their practice on this issue, wheat, barley, which the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) has determined to exchange with scales -to prevent riba and excess-They have found in their ijtihad that dates, dates and salt can be exchanged with scale forever, gold and silver should be exchanged with scales forever, and that it is permissible to exchange other items that are not specified in the hadith, according to the customs and traditions of the people. After Abu Yusuf became the headmaster of the Harun Rashid era, seeing that there were different customs and traditions in the various regions where Muslims lived, he used the hadiths in question "not to determine the exchange of some things by scale and some things by weight, but to determine the exchange rate of the people in the Age of Bliss. He came to the opinion that it existed in accordance with the custom. He also recourse from his first ijtihad by falsifying the traditions in this matter. According to his second ijtihad, it is permissible to exchange things (6 kinds of goods) in scale, weight or number according to the customs of the people, as in other goods that are not mentioned in hadith-i  sharifs. At first Kamal b. Many of the jurists, especially Humam, preferred this second ijtihad of Abu Yusuf to the ijtihad of Abu Hanifa and Imam Muhammad, finding it more suitable for the interests of the people. See. 
Kemal b. Hümam, Fethu'l-Kadir,  V. 283; M. Ahmet ez-Zerka,  ibid., II, 889-894. Provisions depending on a special situation or reason, such as a special situation or cause, disappear with the disappearance of these special circumstances and reasons, and each provision continues with its own reason and cause. When the cause and cause is destroyed, the related provision also comes to an end. The fact that the jurists took ru'yet based on the hadiths like "Start fasting when you see the crescent…" and similar hadiths is that the astronomical calculations that could be made at that time were not sufficient to determine the menstruation. This is the disease of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) – as we have mentioned before – “We are an illiterate nation. It is clearly seen in the hadith-i  sherîf that we neither know how to write nor how to calculate…” The way of observing the crescent moon was chosen in the determination of menstruation, because it is not possible to do this by calculation -for that day-, especially today, all the movements of the Moon can be calculated down to the smallest details, both in conjunction (conjunction) and in the place and time when it can be seen for the first time as a crescent from the earth. can certainly be known. Since the reason and cause that requires adhering to the vision and refusing the account has disappeared, there is no reason not to benefit from the opportunities and conveniences provided by astronomical calculations. As it has been pointed out before, since the period of Tabiun, when natural and positive sciences began to develop in the Islamic world, in every century -although they are few in number-, some jurists have made the jurisprudence that calculations are permissible in the determination of the Ramadan, Shawwal and Zilhijce crescents. As a matter of fact, according to what Aynî reported from al-Aynî,  umdetü'l-Kari,  X, 271, Egypt, some of the elders of the tabiun accepted that the determination of the distance of the kamar by means of calculation could be counted. According to the narration of Ibn Süreyc, Mutarrif b. Abdullah b. Shihhir and Ibn Qutayba are among them. al-Kurtubi,  al-Cami  li ahkamil-Qur'an,  II, 293, Cairo, 1354/1935. These people, appreciate the sentence "apply to the way of judgment if the weather is cloudy" in the hadith-i  sharif mentioned on various occasions above, "by completing the number to 30 days," understood by the public. They interpreted and explained it as "determine and appraise the distances of the moon by calculation", rather than as. b. Hambel, on the other hand, understood this saying as "when the weather is cloudy, accept the crescent as if it is under the clouds"; According to his jurisprudence, if the crescent cannot be seen on the 29th day of Sha'ban due to the cloudy weather, the next day, the first day of Ramadan should be respected and the fasting should begin. Abdullah b. This is the viewpoint of the sheriff, understanding the phrase "appreciate it" as "calculate and appraise" is a convenience in practice, especially in geographical regions where the weather is cloudy most days of the year and even the sun can only be seen for a few days in the month. Otherwise, it is often not possible to see the Ramadan crescent in these regions, and it will generally not be possible to complete the previous month in 30 days, since the same is the case for the Shaban crescent. According to Süreyc's report, Imam Shafii also said that it is permissible for those who believe that the crescent of the moon can be determined by astronomical calculations, to act according to calculations. Muhammed b. Abdi'l Wahhab al-Andalusi,  al-azbu'z-Zulal,  I, 244, Qatar, 1973; (el Hidaye Magazine, 1398/1978, Issue: 6, Page: 82, Tunisia) One of the jurists of the Hijri century who reached the degree of ijtihad, Takyyuddin b. Dakÿ'l-îd,  on the other hand, put forward the following views: According to the calculation of the time of conjuncture, Ramadan fasting cannot be started. Because the moon can be seen from the earth in its crescent state, but it happens 1-2 days after the conjunction. The Shari'a is not based on the conjunction (conjunction) of the Moon, but on the state of the crescent at the beginning of the month. 
However, cloud, dust, fog etc. If the existence of the crescent on the horizon, which cannot be seen for a reason that prevents vision, can be determined by calculation, the beginning of the new moon will be realized because the religious reason has occurred. Because the condition for the beginning of the new moon is not to see the crescent itself, but to be present on the horizon as a crescent moon. Whether it is seen or not, with the first crescent state, the religious new moon has started. When this situation is known with certainty, action becomes obligatory with this knowledge.” al-Azbü'z-Züiâl,  I, 249-250, Qatar, 1973. Bahît confirms Ibn Dakik's words above: “I also agree with those who think that action should be taken with accountability. Because, in what case is he They refer to people who have knowledge and experience in the subject. For example: The words of the Qur'an and hadith are explained according to the words of the linguists; It is permissible not to fast during Ramadan or to break the fast, upon the advice of a specialist doctor. In that case, what could be the reason that prevents us from benefiting from the knowledge, experience and calculations of authorized astronomy experts in the determination of the crescent moons of Ramadan, Shawwal and other months? Moreover, "The Sun and the Moon follow a fixed, unchanging calculation." Surah Ar-Rahman,  5. “He is the One who made the sun bright and the moon bright, and arranged the places of accommodation on the Aya so that we may know the number of years and the reckoning. Allah has created them only according to the truth. He explains the verses at length to the people who know. In the alternation of night and day, and what Allah has created in the heavens and the earth, there are signs for those who fear Him.” Surah Yunus, 5-6. The verses above declare that the Sun and the Moon follow an unchanging, fixed order with calculations. The certainty of the information given by astronomers is fixed by the realization of the information they previously gave about lunar and solar eclipses. Even if the crescent could not be seen due to various reasons, the unanimous statement of astronomers that the moon would have been in a position to be seen in its first crescent if there were no reasons preventing vision, expresses certain knowledge about the existence of the crescent on the horizon. "Whoever among you witnesses the month of Ramadan, let him fast." has been commanded. “Witnessing Ramadan” means either “being a resident in that month and not traveling” or “knowing with certainty that it is in the month of Ramadan and that this month has started”. 
What is apparent from the verse is the second meaning. Because “Shuhut” means “knowledge”. This knowledge, that is, knowing with certainty that the month of Ramadan has started (the crescent of this month can be seen on the horizon), is the reason why fasting is obligatory. According to this explanation, the meaning expressed by the verse in question means "Whoever among you knows for sure that the month of Ramadan has started, he is obliged to fast in this month". After accepting the principle of determination of menstruation, the first thing that comes to mind is what will be the starting limit of these months? is the question. In other words, will the limit for the beginning of the month be the moment of convergence, or will the moon be in a state where it can be seen for the first time on earth in a crescent state? As mentioned in the first part of it, it is stated in the 185th verse of the chapter of al-Baqara,  "Whoever among you knows with certainty that Ramadan has started, he should fast". (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) also states in his hadith: “Start fasting when you see the crescent of Ramadan. When you see the Shawwal crescent, stop fasting and celebrate..." We understand from the galilee that it is fard to start fasting with the beginning of the month of Ramadan, and from the hadith-i  sharif, the menstruation is fixed with the sighting of the crescent. According to the hadith, the coming out of the old moon and the entering of the new moon is related to the fact that the moon is visible on the horizon in a crescent state. In the Quran: "O Muhammad, they ask you about the crescent moon. Tell them: They are the measure of people and their time of pilgrimage. As in Surah al-Baqara,  189, the crescent is called the appearance of a thin curve from the earth on the first and last days of the month. Since the Moon cannot be seen from anywhere in the world at the time of convergence, the Moon in conjunction cannot be called a crescent. Since the crescent and vision are mentioned to determine the beginning of the month in both the verse and the hadith, it will not be possible for the moon to be conjunct (conjunction) as 'mebde' for the beginning of the months. In our opinion, accepting the conjunction of the moon as 'mebde' for the beginning of menstruation contradicts the clarity of the verses and hadiths. There is no religious benefit in order to move away from the outward appearance and abandon the measure of vision (the measure of seeing the crescent from the earth) and turn towards the base of conjunction. After the calculation opinion is accepted as a principle, it is possible for astronomy experts to determine the menstruation according to both of these two measurements, according to the instructions to be given. If the measurement of the crescent is observed from the earth in the determination of menstruation by calculation, there will be a complete compatibility between the results of those who look for the crescent by observation and the results revealed by the calculation. Thus, the separation between those who do not accept the calculation and those who support the calculation will come to an end in terms of implementation. If it is based on the time of the conjunction, the appointment and announcement of the religious days will usually be one day before, and those who insist on the vision will start the fast before the crescent or iftar. will continue to unsettle the communities. In that case, the beginning of the sharia month will be fixed when the lunar moon is visible from the earth. However, in some Islamic countries, Ramadan and Eid announcements are made based on the moon's conjuncture. As a matter of fact, this was the case in the proclamation of the months of Ramadan, Shawwal, and Dhul-Hijjah  in 1398 H./1978  M. The countries that declared the 3rd of September as Eid-al-Fitr  and the 10th of November as the Feast of Sacrifice, respected the convergence of the moon, not the extent to which the crescent can be seen from the earth. For the temple, it is necessary to take the time when the moon can be seen for the first time from the earth as a crescent. We have also briefly presented our opinion on its acceptance as a principle. Another issue to focus on is which part of the earth should be taken as a basis for the sighting of the crescent moon. In other words, does the point where the crescent can be seen must be within the borders of Islamic countries, or can this point be anywhere on earth? It is imperative that this question be clarified. That is, there is no shar'i reason to make it necessary for this point to be within the borders of Islamic countries. 
In fact, the addressees of the command of vision in hadiths such as "Start fasting when you see the crescent..." In this respect, for the first periods
when the calculation is not sufficient for the determination of the crescent, 
It may be necessary to be present within the borders of their countries. However, today, when the moment of vision can be determined precisely by calculation, there is no such necessity. Moreover, there are more or less Muslims in almost every region of the world today. Their number is likely to increase in the near future. If it is accepted as a principle that the point in question must be within the borders of Islamic countries, a Muslim who will see the crescent before from a region other than Islamic countries will start fasting before Islamic countries or will start fasting before Eid, following the saying "Start fasting when you see the crescent". will have to do. Thus, the desired unity of worship among Muslims will not be fully achieved. For reasons of reasons, for the determination of lunar menstruation, lunar months should be declared by determining that the regions where the first crescents of these months can be seen can be seen from anywhere in the world or can be seen as a result of calculation, without requiring that they be within the borders of Islamic countries. The point to be taken into account is that when the first crescent of the moon is seen in any part of the world, the time and time are not the same in all parts of the earth. For example, the Shawwal crescent of 1398 AH / 1978 M. was seen for the first time on September 3 (the night connecting Sunday to Monday) in the southeastern sea region of Australia at 7.17 am Greemvich time. At this moment, while the sun has set in the region in question, for example, in Mecca, which is further west, the daytime local time shows 10:17. Accordingly, while it is possible to declare Eid in places that participate in the night of the region where the crescent moon is seen on Sunday, September 3, it is possible to declare Eid in places and countries that do not (for example, in almost all Islamic countries such as Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco). It is not possible. In that case, in our opinion, the method of action to be applied in the solution of the issue will be as follows; After the group following the convergence, Muslims in all other countries participating in the night of the country where the crescent moon is seen (that is, the time of imsak has not yet entered when the crescent is fixed) will abide by this statement, and will accept and declare the day following that night as the first day of the new moon. I would like to summarize our thoughts and opinions that we have tried to explain until now: 7-) In the Qur'an, in the 185th verse of the chapter of al-Baqara:  "Whoever among you witnesses the month of Ramadan should fast." The word "peace" means "residence" as well as to know and see absolutely everything. According to this situation, the commentators explained the verse as: Whoever is a resident during Ramadan, Whoever knows that Ramadan has started, Whoever sees the Ramadan crescent... The way of knowing closely in the second meaning given is not absolute, it has been interpreted and limited by the hadith "Start fasting when you see the crescent". In the face of this clearness, there is no reason to incline to the path of reckoning as another way of knowledge. Scholars who adopt the view that especially the crescents of Ramadan, Shawwal and Zilhijce can be determined by astronomical calculations other than RU'YET, respond to the objections of those who do not accept the calculation as follows: will prepare maps showing the regions where the crescent can be seen. Thus, if the situation permits, it will provide convenience to anyone who wishes to perform the Ru'yah by observing the crescent himself and to be convinced of the correctness of the calculation. 
In addition, these maps will help each state to make observations by an expert and reliable delegation that will be authorized. 
7-) Indonesia 8-) Urwa also narrates: b. Al-Khattab  wrote to Abu Musa al-Ashari:  Do not pray the afternoon prayer when the sun is white and bright, that is, when there is enough time for a horseman to go three leagues until evening. You can delay Isha until a third of the night, or even until midnight. However, do not be one of the heedless. 8-) Abu Dhabi 8-) These decisions and recommendations will be submitted to the General Secretariat of the Conference of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Islamic Countries and will be requested to be accepted and put into practice at the first meeting of Foreign Ministers to be held in Rabat. 9-) Abdullah b. Rafi asked Abu Hurayra about the prayer times. He said, "I tell you, pray the noon prayer when it is around your shadow, the afternoon prayer when your shadow is twice as long, the evening prayer when the sun sets, the night prayer between the evening and a third of the night, and the morning prayer when it is still dark." According to Abu Hanifa, the time of the afternoon begins when the shadow is twice as long. Shaybani, 1. 9-) Morocco 10-) Enes b. Malik (radiyallahu anh) says: We used to pray, some of the congregation Amr b. He would go to the home of the sons of Awf and see that they were still performing the afternoon prayer. Bukhari, Mevakitu's-Salat,  9/13; Muslim, 5/194. See also Shaybani, 4. Amr b. The homeland of the sons of Awf was "two miles", that is, "4 kilometers", to the Masjid an-Nabawi.  Nevevi says: Amr 
b. Sons of Avf used to work in their fields or gardens. When they finished their work, they gathered and prayed for the afternoon. Therefore, their prayers were delayed. According to its sect, it is best to postpone it when the sun is bright white. 
10-) France 11-) Enes b. Malik (radiyallahu anh) says: Whoever went to Cuba after performing the afternoon prayer, the sun was still high when he arrived there. Bukhari, Mevakîtu's-Salat,  9/13; Muslim, Masâcid, 5/193; Shaybani, 3. Quba is three miles from Medina. 11-) Iraq 12-) (Of course) Kasÿm b. Muhammad says: I caught up with the Companions. They would perform the noon prayer when the weather got a little cooler. 12-) Cyprus 13-) Abu Suheyl narrates from his father Malik: On Friday, Akü b. The felt of Abi Talib was placed at the bottom of the western wall of the mosque. When the shadow of the wall completely covered the felt, Hazrat Umar would come and lead the Friday prayer. Süheyl's father, Malik, continues and says: We were going to take a nap after the prayer. Shaybani, 223. Kiram were sleeping less at night. In the heat of noon, they would lie down a little before the prayer. This sleep was called "Kaylule". Because they were busy with ghusl and other cleaning works on Fridays, they went to sleep after the noon sleep 13-) Kuwait 14-) Abu Selit's son reports: Osman b. Affan (radiyallahu anh) prayed the Friday prayer in Madina and the afternoon prayer in "Melal". Meleî is 17 miles from Medina. This hadith states that Hazrat Uthman performed the Friday prayer on time without delaying it and went to Melal very quickly. On other days, they were performing the noon prayer a little late due to the severity of the heat. However, it is virtuous to perform the Friday prayer on time, regardless of season and country. Malik says: This means that the Friday prayer is performed at the first time after zenith and one comes to Melel quickly. 
14-) Lebanon 
15-) From Abu Hurayra: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever catches up with one rak'ah of the prayer (Performed in 
congregation) will catch up with the congregation." Bukhari, Mevakîtu's-Salat,  9/29; Muslim, Mesacid, 5/161 15-) Malaysia 16-) 
Abdullah b. Umar used to say: If you cannot reach the ruku' (with the imam), you will not be able to reach the prostration (hence that 
rak'ah). 

16-) Soviet Union 17-) 
Abdullah b. Umar and Zayd b. Fixed: "Whoever catches up with ruku' with the imam will have reached prostration (hence that rak'ah)." they 
would say. 

17-) Sudan 
18-) Abu Hurayra says: Whoever catches up with one rak'ah is enough for prostration (prayer). Whoever abducts Fatiha misses 
many good deeds. 
18-) Saudi Arabia 19-) 
Abdullah b. Omar says: "The rotation of the sun is its direction towards the west." 19-) Jordan 20-) 
Abdullah b. Abbas (radiyallahu anh) says: «The rotation of the sun» is the rotation of the shadow 
from the west to the south. 
The darkness of night is the beginning of the night and the complete darkness of it. With this word, Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu  anh) means the 
78th verse of Isra Surah. This verse refers to the five daily prayers by means of the noon and afternoon prayers; the coming of darkness, 
evening and night prayers; The Fajr Qur'an (Qur'ane'l Fajr) also refers to the morning prayer. 

20-) Tunisia 
21-) Abdullah b. According to the narration of Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever misses the 
afternoon prayer, it is as if he lost his family and property." Bukhari, Mevakitu's-Salat,  9/14; Muslim, Mesâcid, 3/200; Shaybani, 222. 

21-) Pakistan 
22-) Yahya b. Said narrates: b. While returning from the afternoon prayer, al-Khattab  (radiy-Allâhu  anh) came across someone 
who did not come to prayer and said: Why did you not come to your prayer? said. The man apologized. Upon this, Hadrat Umar said: 
"You are in trouble!" said. In other words, he prays a four-rak'ah  prayer that he could not perform while on a journey, two rak'ahs at home, 
and four rak'ahs of the prayer he left in his home while traveling. In other words, he prays a four-rak'ah  prayer that he could not perform 
while on a journey, two rak'ahs at home, and four rak'ahs of the prayer he left in his home while traveling. says: Imam-i  Malik, to explain the 
expression "You are in pain", says: "Everything has a cost and a loss." 
22-) Rabitatu'l-Alemi'l-Islami  23-) A 
person performs the prayer on time or in the past. Performing the missed prayer, family members and 

He is superior and virtuous than his property. 
24-) According to Yahya, Imam-i  Malik says: A person who forgets and delays his prayer during a journey, comes home before the time is up, and performs the prayer in full. If the time comes after the time has come, let him perform the expedition prayer as two rak'ahs. Because he makes it the way he left it to the accident. He says: I saw the people and the scholars doing this in our country (in Madinah). 25-) Malik says: Dawn (evening dawn) is the redness on the western horizon. After the redness seen in the west disappears after the evening, the time for the evening prayer has come and the time for Isha has entered. 
26-) Nafi narrates: Abdullah b. Omar (radiyallahu anh) fainted and passed out completely. After sobering up, he did not make up his prayer. Malik says: In my opinion -God knows -he was unconscious the whole time. Otherwise, a person who gets sober before the prayer time should definitely perform his prayer. According to Abu Hanifa, a person who is unconscious for a day or less misses the prayers that were passed while he was unconscious. If he is more unconscious, he does not make up his prayers. (Bâci, Münteka, vol.1, p.24) 27-) Said b. Al-Museyyeb  narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) continued his journey at night when he returned from the conquest of Khaybar. After most of the middle of the night, he stopped to get some sleep and rest. He said to Bilal: "Get us up for the morning prayer" and went to sleep. Ashab also slept. After waiting for a while, Bilal leaned on his camel and his eyes fell asleep. Neither the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), nor Bilal nor the Companions woke up until the sun rose and hit their faces. When Ekrem suddenly woke up with excitement, Bilal said: O Messenger of Allah; The one who put you to sleep (God) made me sleep too.” said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah gave the order to move. The warriors lifted their camels and set off on the road. After leaving for a while, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered Bilal. Bilal ruled. His Messenger, Ekrem, led the morning prayer to the congregation. Here, there may be two reasons why the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not pray immediately after waking up and prayed after a little while: a-Some people may not have woken up with the adhan and residence of Bilal (radiy-Allâhu  anh). . b-Satan caused them to sleep in that valley. They did not pray immediately in order to leave a devilish valley and go to a place where there is no devil, but they did it after a while. However, since we cannot know where the devil is, we must perform our prayers where we remember. (Bâci, Münteka, volume, 1, p.30) After the prayer: "Whoever forgets the prayer and cannot perform it, let him do it when he remembers it. Because, in the book of Allâhu ta’âlâ, “Perform the prayer when you remember me”, the 14th verse of the chapter Taha is as follows: “Perform the prayer so that you remember me.” commands,” he said. This hadith is mursal; It is mentioned in Muslim (Masâcid, 5/309) as a mawsul. See also Shaybani, 
184. 
28-) Zayd b. Maple narrates: The Messenger of Allah stayed one night on the way to Makkah. He assigned Bilal to take them to prayer 
and slept. Ashab also slept. (After a while) Bilal also slept. They were only able to wake up when the sun came up. When he woke up 
and was alarmed, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) immediately ordered them to get on their mounts and leave that 
valley, and said: "There is a devil in this valley." They mounted (on their camels and horses). After crossing the valley, the Messenger 
of Allah (pbuh) ordered them to descend and perform ablution. He also told Bilal to call the adhan or bring the iqama. The Messenger 
of Allah led the prayer and returned to the congregation. Seeing their fear and excitement tell them: people! Undoubtedly, Allah took 
our souls (Allah made us sleep). Had he wished, he would have returned our souls to us at another time. It would wake us up earlier. 
The Messenger of Allah refers to the following verse with this statement: “Allah takes the souls at the time of their death, and during the 
sleep of those who do not die. Thus, he keeps the one whom he has decreed to die, and sends the other until a certain time. Surely 
there are signs in this for people who reflect.” (Surah Az-Zumar,  42) This is the reason why it is called "sleep little death". After saying, 
"Whoever falls asleep or forgets and has few prayers, let him perform his prayer as he did on time." Then he turned to Abu Bakr and 
said: "Bilal was praying, the devil came and put him to sleep, he put him to sleep like a child who was put to sleep with a lullaby." said. 

Then the Prophet called Bilal. When Bilal told him the same thing that the Messenger of Allah (previously) had told Abu Bakr, Abu 
Bakr said, "I testify that you are indeed the Messenger of Allah." With the agreement of all Muwatta narrators, the hadith is mursal. 

29-) Atâ b. From Yesar: (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): “The intensity of the heat is from the breath of Hell. “My fever ate each 
other,” he said. And his Lord allowed him to take two breaths a year: one breath of summer, one breath of winter.” The hadith is mursal. 
According to Abu Omar, the hadiths narrated by Imam-i  Malik and others in many ways reinforce this. "The intensity of the heat is from 
the breath of hell" 

Bukhari, Mawakitu's-Salat,  9/9; Muslim, Masâcid, 5/180. 
30-) From Abu Hurayra: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "When the heat is severe, delay the (noon) 
prayer a little; leave it to the cool time, for the intensity of the heat is from the breath of hell.” he commanded. He mentioned the 
following hadith: "Hell has complained to its Lord. He also allowed two breaths a year: One breath in winter, one breath in summer.” 
Bukhari, Mawakitu's-Salat,  9/9; Muslim, Masâcid, 5ft80,185; Shaybani, 183. 
31-) From Abu Hurayra: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Delay the prayer a little in very hot weather. For 
the intensity of the heat is from the breath of Hell. 
32-) Said b. From al-Museyyeb:  (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Eating this plant (garlic) should not enter our mosques and 
disturb us with the smell of garlic." 33-) Imam-i  Malik narrates from Abdurrahman: «Salim b. When Abdullah saw someone covering 
his mouth with a scarf during prayer, he would pull the scarf that covered his mouth and open it.” The hadith is mursal. Muslim 
(Masacid, 5/71) has narrated it repeatedly. 

34-) Yahya al-Mazinî,  one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah, his father Abdullah b. Can you show Zayd how the 
Messenger of Allah made wudu?" When Abdullah said, "Yes," he asked for water and poured it on his hand, and three times each on his nose. 

After giving water once, he washed his face three times. Then he washed his arms up to his elbows three times. Afterwards, he wiped his head with 
wet hands from his forehead to the back and from the back to his forehead. Then he washed his feet up to his heels. Bukhari, Wudu, 4/38; Muslim, 
Taharet, 2/18,19; Shaybani, 5. 
35-) From Abu Hurayra: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When one of you makes wudu, let him clean his nose 
thoroughly by rinsing it with water. Let him use the one who is bidding with a stone.” Bukhari, Wudu, 4/26; Muslim, Taharet, 2/20. See also 
Shaybani, 6, 36-) From Abu Hurayra: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Let the one who has made ablution clean his nose 
well with water. 
Let the one who bids with the stone use the stone alone.” he commanded. Bukhari, Wudu, 4/25; Muslim, Taharet, 2/22. See also Shaybanî, 7. 
37-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is permissible to make ablution with a handful of water, both as mazmaza and istinshaq. (4/a) 

Mazmaza: Giving water to the mouth. Istinshaq: To put water in the nose. These two are sunnah. 
38-) Sad b. On the day Ebi Vakkâs died, Abdurrahman, son of Abu Bakr, went to Hadrat Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh). When she asked for water to make 
ablution, Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said: "Abdurrahman! Wash the ablution organs thoroughly. Because the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa 
sallam) said: "The heels that remain dry while performing ablution will burn in the fire." I heard you say.” (4/b)  It is common in Muslim (Taharat, 2/23). 

39-) Abdurrahman: "I heard that Omar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) was getting well with water." said. Shaybani, 10. 
40-) He said to Malik, "Is it okay if the man who has performed ablution forgets to wash his face before making mazmaza, or wash his arms without 
washing his face?" When they ask: “Whoever washes his face before making mazmaza, let him do mazmaza and not wash his face again. Whoever 
washes his arms without washing his face should wash his face if he is at or near the place where he made wudu, then wash his arms again. Thus, his 
arms will be washed after his face.” he replied. If the wudu has left the place where it was performed and the wudu' has dried up, he washes the place 
he forgot, 41-) Yahya said to Malik: "What would happen if someone forgets while making wudu and prays without giving water to his mouth and nose?" 
they asked. Malik said: “He does not have to repeat his prayer. Because mazmaza and istinshaq are sunnah. His prayer does not break with 
abandonment. When he remembers, he makes mazmaza and istinshaq, but he does not start the prayer again even if he wants to pray. said. 

42-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When one of you wakes up, let him 
wash my hands before putting them in the water for wudu. For he does not know where his hands touch in his sleep.” Bukhari, Wudu, 4/26; 
Muslim, Taharet, 2/87,88. See also Shaybani, 9. It is good to do so, one who leaves does not become a sinner. At that time, there was no tap system 
like today. Generally, ablution was performed by immersing the hands in water in a bowl. In some cases, hands may not be clean. In the hadith, it is 
commanded to wash the hands outside first, then to make wudu by dipping them into the container, which is necessary for cleaning. 

43-) Zayd b. From Eslem: Omar b. al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh): "Whoever sleeps while lying down should make wudu." said. 
When he sleeps while lying down, it means that his wudu is broken. If he sleeps without leaning on something while sitting, his wudu will not be broken. 
If the thing on which he rests in sleep seems to fall when it is pulled, his ablution will be invalidated. 
44-) Malik says: "Zayd b. Eslam: "O believers, when you stand up for prayer, wash your faces and your hands up to the elbows, wipe your 
heads, and wash your feet up to the heels." He interpreted the verse as "When you get up from bed (sleep)..." 45-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, 
nosebleeds, blood coming out of one part, pus flowing from the wound do not invalidate wudu. Abu Hanifa, based on hadiths that he considers sound, 
accepted that blood and pus coming out of the body will invalidate wudu. 

46-) Nafi says: Abdullah b. Umar used to sleep sitting down and then pray without making ablution. 47-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) narrates: The man came to the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: Messenger of Allah, we are going on a voyage in the sea, we take some water with us. If we make ablution with it, it is not enough to drink. Can we make ablution with sea water?” said. Ekrem (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The water of the sea is clean, its dead are halal.” he commanded. So you can make wudu with sea water. It means that animals that die from the sea are also halal. David, Daharet, 1/41; Tirmidhi, Taharet, 1/52; Nesai, Taharet, 1/47; Ibn Majah. Taharet, 1/38; See also Shaybani 46 48-) Kab's daughter, Kebshe, narrates: My father-in-law,  Abu Qatada, came to us and I was pouring ablution water on him. Just then, a cat came and wanted to drink from the water. Abu Qatada made him tilt the bowl until the cat drank from the water. When he saw me looking at him: Are you surprised, nephew?' said. Me too: I said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The cat is not dirty. He walks freely in your house,” he said. Abu Dawud, Taharet, 1/38; Tirmidhi, Taharet, 1/69; Nesai, Taharet, 1/54; Ibn Mace, Taharet, 1/32, See also. Shaybani, 90. Malik says; There is nothing wrong with that. However, it is not permissible if the cat has dirt in its mouth. 
49-) Yahya b. Abdurrahman narrates: Omar (radiyallahu anh) went on an expedition with a caravan. Amr b. al-As  was also in the caravan. They came to a pool. Amr b. al-As  to the owner of the pool: Do wild animals come and drink from this pool? Hazrat Umar said to the man: Do not answer this question. Because animals are also in this water. 
come, we will come too.” said. Umar (radiyallahu anh) must have said this to remove doubts and anxieties. Because the worship should not be made to be based on doubt. 
50-) Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) says: In the time of the Messenger of Allah, men and women used to make ablution together. Bukhari, Wudu, 4/43, See also. Shaybani, 45. says: Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) means with this word: Every man used to make ablution from a captain together with his harem. Some narrations are in this sense. Otherwise, it does not mean that non-mahram  men and women would perform ablution together. 51-) Abdurrahman b. Umm guardian of Awf's son Ibrahim When she had a child with a concubine, that concubine was called "Ummu walad" (radiy-Allâhu  anh). He tells Umm Salama, (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam)’s wife: I am a woman with long skirts and I pass through dirty places. When I said that, Umm Salamah said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Dry and clean places clean the dirty skirts that get swept up on dirty places." replied in the form. Abu Davud, Taharet, 1/137; Tirmidhi, Taharet, 1/109; Ibn Mace, Taharet, 1/79 52-) Malik (radiyallahu anh), Rebia 
b. He saw Abdurrahman praying in the masjid without repeating his wudu' by vomiting many times. 53-) Imam-i  Malik: "Does a person who vomits need to make wudu again?" they asked. He also said: He does not need to make wudu again. However, because he has vomited, he must rinse his mouth.» he replied. According to the Hanafi Sect, vomiting a mouthful invalidates the wudu. 54-) Nafi narrates: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh), Said b. He smeared the corpse of Zaid's son and carried him, then entered the mosque, and then prayed without renewing his wudu. 55-) To Imam-i  Malik: "Is wudu invalidated if he vomits?" they asked. He said: “No. He just grieves and washes his mouth. He doesn't need to make an ablution," he said. 
56-) Abdullah b. Abbas says: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ate the cooked front of the sheep. 
He prayed without renewing his ablution.” Bukhari, Wudu, 4/50; Muslim, Hayd, 3/91, See also. Shaybani, 30. 
57-) Suveyd b. Numan narrates: I went out with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the year of the Battle of Khaybar. 
When he reached the place called "Sahba" near Khaybar, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got off his camel and led the 
afternoon prayer. Then he asked for provisions, they brought only kavut roasted flour. He ordered, they made kavutu 
soup. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ate, and we ate. Then he got up for the evening prayer, made mazmaza, we did 
mazmaza, and then he led the prayer without renewing his wudu. Buhari, Voodoo, 4/51. See also According to the 
Shaybani, 34th sect, based on this hadith, it is not necessary to make wudu for eating objects cooked on fire. According 
to the apparent, wudu is invalidated in this case and must be renewed. 
58-) Abdullah b. Rebia, son of Hudeyr, says: I had dinner with Hadrat Umar, he performed the prayer after the meal 
and did not perform ablution again. 
59-) Eban b. Osman says: Osman b. After eating bread and meat, Affan (radiyallahu anh) made mazmaza 
(washing his mouth), washed his hands and rubbed his face with his hands. He then prayed, but did not perform 

ablution again. 60-) Imam-i  Malik'e Ali b. Ebi Talib and Abdullah b. It has been narrated that Abbas (radiyallahu anh) 
did not perform ablution after eating the food cooked in the fire. Shaybani, 32. 

61-) Yahya b. Said, Abdullah b. Amar b. To Rabia: If a man makes wudu to pray and eats a meal cooked on fire, 
should he perform wudu again?» she asked. He also said: I saw my father, after he made wudu, he ate the food 
cooked in the fire, and he did not make wudu again.' he replied. Shaybani, 33. 
62-) Jabir b. Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) al-Ansari  says: I saw Abu Bakr es-Siddik  (radiyallahu anh). After eating meat, 
he prayed again without making ablution. Shaybani, 29. By saying this, he states that eating something cooked on 
fire does not invalidate wudu'. As it is known, Hazrat Abu Bakr gave the meat while he was in ablution. 

63-) Muhammed b. Al-Munkadir  (radiyallahu anh) narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was invited to dinner. 
Meat and bread were brought to him. After eating these, he made wudu and prayed. Then they brought the rest of 
the meal, after eating from it, he prayed again without making ablution. The hadith is mursal. Abu Dawud (Taharat, 
1/74) narrated from Jabir -as authentic. See also Tirmidhi, Taharet, 1/59; Shaybani, 31. 

64-) Abdurrahman b. Yazid al-Ansari  narrates: Enes b. Malik had come from Iraq. Ebu Talha and Ubay b. They 
went to Ka'b, Enes brought them food cooked on fire, and they ate it. After the meal, when Enes got up and made 
ablution, Abu Talha and Ubey b. Ka'b: "What is this, Enes? Or is it the custom of the Iraqis?" These criticisms of the 
visitors of Hadrat Enes indicate that Enes's assumption that ablution is invalidated when food cooked on fire is eaten 
is wrong. When he said that, Enes said: "I wish I hadn't." Ebû Talha and Ubey b. Ka'b got up and prayed without 

making wudu again. 
65-) From Urve (radiy-Allâhu  anh): When they asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): “Can 
you not find three stones?” he replied. David (Taharat, 1/21) narrates from Hadrat Aisha; Tirmidhi, Taharet, 1/40. 
Because there was no water everywhere in the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) 

It was customary to clean up with stones and the like after tayammum with soil, after breaking the wudu. With these words of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "If you can't find water, can't you find stones either?" He wanted to say that, he wanted three stones to be used here as well, pointing to tawhid (unity) as everywhere else. 66-) Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu  anh) narrates: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went to the cemetery, he said, “Assalâmu alaikum, O believers lying in the graveyard! When Allah wills, we will meet you too.” He said, "I would very much like to see our brothers," said the Messenger of Allah! Aren't we your brothers?" they said. Rasûlullah: You are also my Companions. My brothers have not arrived yet. I will wait for them (in the Hereafter) by the Hawz.” he commanded. Companions: O Messenger of Allah, how will you recognize those who will come after you from your nation?' He said: If a man had a white horse among his black horses, wouldn't he recognize him?' said. They said: O Messenger of Allah!' they replied. The Prophet said: "They will come on the Day of Judgment with their foreheads shining like light because of the ablution they took while they were on earth. I will go ahead and wait for them at the beginning of the Basin. Those people will not be expelled from my Pool like stray camels. Tell them "Hey! Come, come, come!” I call. At that time he said, “They have changed a lot in their religion after you. "In their religion, they changed a lot." To say, "They abandoned their sunnah, they committed bid'ah, they did things that are not in the religion". is called. Me too; “Then get away from me! Get away! Let them stay away..” I say” he said. Muslim Taharet, 2/39. 
67-) Hümran, the freedman of Hazrat Uthman, tells: Osman b. Affan (radiyallahu anh) was sitting on a bench. At that time, when the muezzin came and informed him that it was time for the afternoon prayer, he immediately asked for water and made ablution. "By God, I will tell you a hadith, if it is not in the book of Allah and in Muslim narrations, "Urwa" says: Those who hide the verses I have sent down and the right path after I have made it clear to people in the Book, Allah curses them and those who curse them curse them, except those who repent, correct themselves, and reveal the truth; I accept their repentance. I always accept repentance and show mercy.” (Baqara, 2.159-160.) Osman "If it were not for the (above) verse that forbids concealing what I know, I would not say it." he means. This view, which is included in Bukhari and Muslim, is better and more authentic than the statement of Hadrat Imam-i  Maliki at the end of the 29th hadith, in terms of being one of the narrators of the hadith and saying it definitively. said. He then continued as follows: "I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)" He said: "Whoever washes his limbs thoroughly and performs ablution and prays, his sins between that and the next prayer will be forgiven." Malik says: I think the verse meant by Hazrat Uthman is this: "Perform the prayer properly on both sides of the day and in the first hours of the night. Undoubtedly, good deeds remove evil. This is an admonition to those who think.” (Hud, 11/114). Bukhari, Wudu, 4/24; Muslim, Taharet, 2/6. 
68-) From Abdullah al-Sunabihi  (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When a believer performs ablution while making wudu, his sins come out of his mouth (washing his mouth). When he washes his nose, his sins come out of his nose. When he washes his face, his sins come out of his face and even under his eyelids. When he washes his hands, his sins come out. When he wipes his head, his sins come out of his head and even from his ears. And when he washes his feet, his sins come out of his feet and even under his toenails. Then, going to the mosque and praying increases the reward and the forgiveness of sins.” 69-) Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu  anh) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When a Muslim – or a believer – washes his face while performing wudu, his eyes are covered with water (or the last drop of water) that flows from his face. all the sins he committed (looking at nonmahrams) are poured out. When he washes his hands, the sins that he committed with his hands are poured from his hands along with water (in another narration, with the last drop of water). When he washes his feet, his sins that he has committed with his feet are removed with water or with the last drop of water. Thus, he will be cleansed of all his sins.” 70-) Enes b. Malik (radiyallahu anh) says: One day, the afternoon prayer was approaching, people were looking for water to make ablution, but they could not find it. At that time, they brought water to the Messenger of Allah in a bowl. The Prophet put his hand in the bowl, then ordered his companions to make ablution from that pot. Enes says: I could see the water, it was boiling between the fingers of His Messenger Ekrem. All people made ablution from him. Voodoo, 4/32; Muslim, Fadail, 43/5. As it is understood from his arrival, the incident takes place during a journey and in a place where water is scarce. The boiling of water between his fingers in a small bowl in which the Prophet put his blessed hand is a clear miracle. Thus, whenever and wherever the Prophet and the believers are in trouble, divine power manifests and miracles appear from our Prophet. Iyad says: It was reported by reliable narrators that the water boiling between the fingers of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) in many meeting places (including the Companions) and among the soldiers, none of the Companions denied or denied this. This, too, is one of the miracles of the Messenger of Allah. 
71-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) says: If a person performs ablution well and goes to prayer (until he goes to the mosque), that person is considered to be in prayer. He earns a good deed with one of his two steps, and a sin is forgiven with the other. When any of you hears that it is being performed, let him not run. Because the one who earns the most rewards leaves his house from the mosque. 
is the furthest away. Why, O Abu Huraira?» said, Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh); "Because more steps are taken", it is against the morals of prayer to run and rush to the mosque. This act is not correct as it spoils the dignity and dignity of man. replied. Ibn Abdilber says: Imam-i  Malik and others: Nuaym narrated the hadiths of Abu Hurayra as mawkuf. Since such statements from the Companions could not be based on personal opinion and ijtihad, they are considered as musnad hadith, that is, they heard it from the Messenger of Allah. 
72-) Yahya b. From Said: Said b. When al-Museyyeb  was asked about the ruling on making a bath with water after wudu, he said: "It is only for women to take a bath." he replied. Said b. With this word, al-Museyyeb  means that it is enough for men to be wiped with stones. However, Imam-i  Malik and many scholars do not agree with this view. That is, men or women should be cleaned with water unless they have to. 73-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a dog drinks water or eats something from any of your bowls, he should wash that bowl seven times.” Bukhari, Wudu, 4/33; Muslim, Taharet, 2/90. In a hadith, the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); He says, "Wash the bowl that the dog touches seven times," and "wash it with soil" once. Scientists have stated that there is some kind of microbe in the saliva of the dog, and that only the soil will kill it. This is one of the secrets of the hadith "Angels do not enter a house with a dog". 74-) The following hadith was reported to Imam-i  
Malik: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Live rightly and honestly. You cannot do everything. Do good and beneficial deeds. 
The best of your deeds is prayer. 
Only a perfect believer can preserve wudu." This is a mursal hadith. Ibn Abdilber says in et-Takassi:  "With the narration of Sevban from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) in authentic ways, it becomes musnad and concise. It is also narrated by Ibn Mace (Taharat, 1/4). When things are many but time is short, do the most important things. Prayer is also one of the most important things. Being in wudu' all the time is also a sign of the perfection of faith, and wudu is the weapon of a believer. 
75-) Nafi says: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) used to wet his two fingers and wipe his ears. 76-) In the hadith reported to Imam-i  Malik, Jabir b. To Abdullah al-Ansari  (radiyallahu anh): Is it possible to wipe over the turban?» When they asked, Jabir; “It is not permissible until the hair is wiped with water.” he replied. 77-) Hisham b. Urve says: Abu Urve b. Zubayr would take off his turban and wipe his head. 78-) Nafi Nafi, Abdullah b. He is the freed slave of Umar (radiyallahu anh) and says: Abdullah b. I saw Safiye, the wife of Omar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) – the daughter of Abu Ubayd – taking off her veil and wiping her head with water. 79-) Imam-i  Malik said, "Is it permissible to wipe over the turban and the head covering? When he was asked: “It is not permissible for a man to wipe over his turban and a woman's headscarf. He replied, "Let them wipe over their heads." 80-) When they asked Imam-i  Malik what he should do if he forgets to wipe the head of a person who has made wudu and remembers it after the parts of wudu have dried, he said: "He should wipe his head. If he prayed without wiping his head, he should repeat that prayer.” he replied. 
81-) Mugîra b. Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh) narrates: In the Battle of Tabuk, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went to make wudu. I also prepared the ablution water. When he came, I poured water on his hands, he washed his face. He wanted to roll up the sleeves of his robe to wash his arms. When he couldn't roll up his sleeves because it was too narrow, he took his hands off the sleeves of his robe. He washed his arms up to his elbows. Then he wiped over his head and the swaddles on his feet. When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) came to pray, Abdurrahman b. Awf became the imam of the congregation and led one rak'ah of the prayer. His Messenger Ekrem performed one remaining rak'ah in congregation. When Abdurrahman saluted, the congregation was alarmed. After finishing the prayer, he turned to his companions and said: "You did well." Bukhari, Megazi, 64/81; Muslim, Salat, 4/105, See also. Shaybani, 47. The incident took place in the morning prayer. When the Messenger of Allah was late for the prayer, the Companions made Abdurrahman, son of Awf, the imam, and they prayed because of the fear that time would pass. Because they did this without permission from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), they were alarmed when the Prophet came and prayed by following Abdurrahman. His Messenger, Ekrem, both saved them from trouble by saying you did well, and also found it right to make Abdurrahman the imam to perform the prayer in order not to delay the prayer. (Bâci, Münteka, vol.1, p.77) 82-) Nafi and Abdullah b. Dinar Narrated. Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), son of Hazrat Umar, was the governor of Kufa Sa'd b. He went to Abi Waqqas, and Abdullah did not tolerate this when he saw Sa'd anointing over his loins. Upon this, Sa'd said to Abdullah: "Ask your father when you go to Omar." Abdullah went to Medina. But he forgot to ask about the ruling of wiping over the mestizos. Later, when Sa'd, the governor of Kufa, came to Medina, did you ask Abdullah:' said. “No,” said Abdullah. When Abdullah asked his father about it, Omar (radiyallahu anh) said: "After putting on your mestizos while you are performing wudu, wipe over them (while making wudu again)". Abdullah: Even after breaking it?' When he said that, Omar said, "Yes, even after breaking the wudu." Shaybani, 
83-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Omer was in the market. Small water Quba, the Prophet's meeting with Abu Bakr It is the last place they stayed before they entered Medina during their emigration from Mecca. He built the Quba mosque, the first mosque in Islam, where Hadrat Enes prayed. This is one of the important places that pilgrims visit in Medina. In the hadiths above, the beginning of wudu by washing one's face is to express the fards of wudu. Otherwise, as it is known, hands are washed as a circumcision before, and the mouth and nose are cleaned by giving water. we poured Then he performed ablution, washed his face, washed his arms up to his elbows, and wiped his head. Then he went to the mosque. They called him to lead the funeral prayer, and he led the funeral prayer after wiping over his meshes. Seybani, 50 84-) Said, son of Abdurrahman, son of Rukayÿ, narrates: Enes b. I saw Malik when he came to Cuba. He broke his ablution. Then they brought water for ablution. He performed ablution: He washed his face, washed his arms up to the elbows, and wiped over his head and his loins. Then he entered the mosque and prayed. 
85-) Yahya says: They asked Imam-i  Malik: If a man breaks his wudu and takes off his mestizos, can he wipe over them while making wudu again, even if he wears them again?» they said. Malik: Let him go out and wash his feet. Only after washing his feet and making wudu can a person who wears their mests wipe over them. A person who wears his kerchiefs without washing his feet while performing ablution cannot wipe.” said. 86-) Again, Imam-i  Malik said: "What should a man do if he makes ablution, forgets to wipe over his meshes that he wears on his feet, and remembers it after performing the prayer?" they asked. Imam-i  Malik: "Let him wipe over the mests, 
return the prayer. He does not return the ablution," he said. 87-) They asked Imam-i  Malik: If a man washes his feet and puts on his mestizos, what should he do while performing ablution? Imam-i  Malik said: "Let him take off his cloaks, perform ablution and wash his feet." According to another narration from Imam-i  Malik in 48 matters, Shaybani "makes ablution without taking off his knolls and wipes over his mists." he said. According to Abu Hanifa, it is the same. Saying that he should take off his penthouses and wash his feet here is for declaring the one who is virtuous and awla. Because it is sunnah to wash the limbs one after the other while making wudu without opening the gap. The validity period of the mesh on the mest is one day and one night for the residents, according to the Hanafi Sect; three days and three nights for travelers. According to Imam-i  Malik, residents cannot wipe over mest. (Bâcî, Münteka, v.1, p.80) 88-) Hisham b. Urve says: I saw my father anointing over the recesses, he was wiping over the mests, but not inside. 89-) Imam-i  Malik asked Ibn Shihab: "How to wipe over mests?" When asked, Ibn Shihab put one hand under the mest, and with the other hand wiped over the mest. Malik says: "The view I heard from Ibn Shihab is the one that I like the most in this regard." Shaybani, 51 90-) Nafi says: Abdullah b. When Umar (radiyallahu anh) had a sore nose during the prayer, he would go, perform ablution again, and then complete the prayer without speaking. Shaybani, 36 91-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Abdullah b. Abbas (radiyallahu anh) would go out of prayer when his nose bled, and would return to complete his prayer after washing his blood. 92-) Abdullah b. Yazid, son of Quseyt el-Leysi,  narrates: Said b. While praying, al-Museyyeb  had a bleeding nose, he immediately went to the room of Umm Salama, the wife of the Messenger of Allah, and after making ablution with the water brought back, he completed the prayer from where he left off. Shaybani, 36. 
93-) Abdurrahman b. Harmele al-Aslemî  says: Said b. I saw al-Museyyeb,  his nose was bleeding. The blood that came out made his fingers red, and then he prayed without making ablution. cf. ÿeybanî, 39 94-) Abdurrahman b. al-Mucebber  says: I saw Abdullah's son Salim with blood flowing from his nose, and even the blood was dyeing his fingers red. He rubbed his nose and then prayed without making ablution. In other words, he did not renew his wudu, believing that the blood coming out does not invalidate his wudu. According to this, the ablution of blood coming out of any part of the body, Ear, 95-) Al-Misver,  son of Mahreme, tells: I went to Hadrat Omar the night he was shot, and I woke him up for the morning prayer. When he woke up, Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said, “Yes, a person who abandons prayer has no share of Islam” and performed his prayer with blood flowing from his wound. 
96-) Yahya b. Said says: Said b. He asked al-Museyyeb,  "What is your opinion about a person whose nose bleeds and it is not cut off?" When it was said, Said, implying with his head (leaning forward very slightly) said, "I find it appropriate for him to perform his prayer." Malik said: "This is the best opinion I have heard on this matter." 97-) Al-Miqdad  b. al-Aswad  narrated as follows: Ali b. Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu  anh) ordered me to ask the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) what should be done with a person who has a blemish when he approaches his wife and said: “Because Fatima, the daughter of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), is my wife. I am ashamed to ask,” he said. When I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about this, he said: "Whoever among you is aware of such a thing, let him wash his genitals and perform ablution like prayer." Ibn Abdilber says: This is not an absolute isnad because Süleyman b. Yesar heard neither from Mikdad nor from Ali. 
In the hadith, there is Ibn Abbas between Sulayman and Ali. (Hayd, 3/19), it is narrated from Ibn Abbas. See also Shaybani, 42 98-) Zayd reported that his father, Eslem, said: Omar al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh): "(Sometimes, I feel like beads are rolling from myself) flowing, whoever is aware of such a thing should wash their genitals, pray Let him make wudu like his wudu,” he said. Shaybani, 43. Sect, takes this view. Delusional people sprinkle water on their clothes to relieve their hesitation. 
99-) Abdullah b. From Jundub, freedman of Ayyas: Abdullah b. I asked Omer about the meze. “When Mezi comes, wash your genitals. Make wudu like the ablution for prayer.” said. 100-) Said b. From al-Museyyeb:  "I feel wet while praying, should I break the prayer in such cases?" asks a man: "Even if it hits my leg, I do nothing until I finish my prayer." he replied. b. Al-Museyyeb  should have responded in this way, realizing that the other person is a person with apprehension. Otherwise, leakage will invalidate the wudu, so the prayer will also be invalidated. The ulama have agreed on this issue. Nor is apprehension true without discharge and leakage. Such a pessimistic and delusional person sprinkles some water on his panties after making wudu and saves himself from 
apprehension. 101-) Zubayd's son es-Salt  says: Süleyman b. When I asked Yesar about the wetness that I felt flowing, he replied: "Sprinkle some water under your dress and forget about it (get rid of the delusion)". 102-) Urve b. ez-Zubayr  narrates: Marwan b. I went to al-Hakam.  We talked to him about things that invalidate wudu. By the way, when Marwan said: "Whoever touches his genitals, his ablution will be invalidated", I said: I don't know that. Mervan: “This is what Safvan's daughter Busre told me. He also heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saying, "If any of you touches his genitals, let him make wudu." David, Taharet, 1/69; Tirmidhi, Taharet, 1/61; Nesai, Taharet, 1/118; Ibn Mace, Taharet, 1/63. 103-) Sa'd b. Mus'ab, son of Vakkas, narrates: I was holding a mushafi for my father Sa'd. I was itchy for a while. Sa'd (radiyallahu anh) saw this: "Or did you touch your genitals?" said. I said yes, too. Upon this, Sa'd said: "Get up and perform ablution." I got up and made ablution and came. 104-) Abdullah b. Umar said, "When one of you touches his genitals, it becomes obligatory to make wudu (renew)." He narrated what he said. 105-) Hisham narrated from his father, Urwa, that Urwa said: "Whoever touches his genitals, it will be wajib to make wudu." 106-) Salim said: My father Abdullah b. When he saw that Umar (radiyallahu anh) was making wudu after making ghusl, he asked him: Doesn't ghusl replace wudu?» said. Yes, it will pass, but sometimes I touch my genitals and then I perform ablution.» said. ÿeybanî,12 107-) Salim b. Abdullah narrated: On a journey, my father Abdullah b. I was with Omar (radiyallahu anh). One day, when he saw that he was performing ablution and praying after the sun came up, he asked him: Wouldn't you pray at a time like this?' said. He said: "After performing ablution for the morning prayer, I touched my genitals. Then I forgot to make wudu again (I prayed). Now I have performed ablution and performed the prayer again.” said. Based on this and similar narrations, Imam-i  Malik, Imam Ahmad b. Hanbal, Imam Shafii and other imams of these madhhabs are unanimous that the ablution of a person who touches his genital organ is invalidated. Hanafi imams, on the other hand, came to the conclusion that wudu is not invalidated, based on the following hadith, and said that it is necessary to make wudu in such cases -to get rid of conflict: A man who seems to be a Bedouin came to the presence of His Messenger (pbuh) and said: O Messenger of Allah! What do you say about a man who touches his genitals in prayer? When he said, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Isn't he a part of his body?" he commanded. (Abu Dawud, Taharet, 70; Tirmidhi, Taharet, 62; Ibn Mace, Taharet, 118). According to the hadith, touching the genitals is like touching any part of the body; 108-) Salim, his father Abdullah b. It was narrated from Umar (radiyallahu anh) that Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) used to say: "When a man kisses his wife and touches her with his hand (mulamase), "Mulâmasa" means to touch. 
Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) refers to the 43rd verse of the chapter "Nisa" with the phrase "Mulamese". In this verse, "... 
or if you touch women and you cannot find water, make tayammum from a clean place..." 
There is a disagreement among the imams of the madhhab on the religious meaning of mulamese (touching 
women). Touching women (=Mulamese) is an allusion to sexual intercourse according to Abu Hanifa. In this case, a ghusl 
is required. Nothing is necessary just by touching (neither ghusl nor wudu). According to Maliki, Shafi'i and Hanbali imams, 
"Mulamase" means to touch in any way. According to them, the wudu of a man who touches a woman is invalidated. 
counted from. Therefore, whoever kisses his wife or touches her with his hand, must perform ablution.” 
109-) Abdullah b. Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh) used to say, "Kissing his wife invalidates wudu." 110-) Ibn 
Shihab used to say: Kissing his wife invalidates wudu. Nafi says: Imam-i  Malik would say: "This is the best thing 
I've ever heard." 
111-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha), the mother of believers, describes the ghusl of the Prophet: “When the Messenger of 
Allah (pbuh) was making ghusl due to janaba, he first washed his hands and made wudu like prayer. 

After taking it, he used to make the roots of his hair eat well with his fingers. Then he would pour water on his head three times, and then 
wash his whole body with water.” Bukhari, Gusl, 5/1; Muslim, Hayd, 3/35. 
112-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to make ghusl with a “farak” full of water.” said. Bukhari, Ghusl, 
5/2; Muslim, Hayd, 3/41. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) orders that water be used sparingly in all occasions, in all things, and in all 
occasions. In one of his hadiths, he said: "Even if you make ablution from the sea, do not use too much water." «farak» is three hrs. One sa' is 
approximately three and a half kilograms. What is meant here is to use less water. 

113-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. When Umar was going to make a ghusl after becoming junub, he would first pour water on his right hand, wash his hands, and then wash his genital organ. After rinsing his mouth and nose with water, he would sprinkle the water on his eyes and wash his face, then his right and then his left arm. After washing his head, he would pour water on it and wash his whole body. 114-) According to what is reported by Imam-i  Malik, when Aisha (radiyallahu anha) was asked how women would make ghusl, she said: "He pours water on his head three times and rubs the roots of his hair with his hands." There is no difference between a man and a woman in ghusl. Only a woman does not need to untangle her hair, it is sufficient to wash the bottom of her hair by rubbing it. Hazrat Aisha only wants to explain this difference here 115-) Said b. Al-Museyyeb  narrated: Umar b. al-Khattab,  Osman b. Affan and Âisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha) used to say: “Ghusl becomes obligatory when the circumcised part of a man's genitals enters a woman's (in sexual intercourse).” Shaybani; 76 116-) Abu Salama b. Abdurrahman b. Awf says: I asked Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha), the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), what required a ghusl, and she replied: “Do you know what your state is like, O Abu Salama! It's like a chick. He hears the sound of chickens; he calls with them. Ghusl becomes obligatory when the circumcision part of a man's genitals enters a woman's genitals. The same hadith was also narrated from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha). Tirmisi, Taharet, 1/80 See also. ÿeybanî, 77, 117-) Said b. From al-Museyyeb:  Abu Musa al-Ash'ari  went to Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha), the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and said to her: The disagreement of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) about an issue. sounds heavy. I'm too afraid to ask you about it." said. He said: What is that matter? (Don't be afraid) ask me what you can ask your mother. said. Thereupon: Ghusl becomes obligatory when the circumcision part of a man's genitals enters a woman's genitals (even if there is no ejaculation). said. And I said: "I will no longer ask this of anyone after you." said. Ibn Abdilber says in his book at-Takassi:  This hadith is mawkuf. According to our determination, the hadith is muttasil: Muslim, Kayd, 3/88. 
118-) Osman b. Affan's freed Abdullah b. Ka'b narrates: Mahmud, son of Labîd al-Ansari,  Zayd b. He asked Sabit: Does a man get tired, relax, 
and cannot ejaculate while uniting with his partner? When he said (Is it necessary to make ghusl?) Zayd (radiyallahu anh) said: He will make ghusl. 
Mahmud: Ubey b. Ka'b was of the opinion that ghusl is not necessary (in these cases). Zayd said: "Ubay b. Ka'b reverted from this view before he 
died.” said. Shaybani, 74. 
119-) Nafi says: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) used to say, "When the circumcision part of a man's genitals enters a woman's genitals, 
ghusl becomes obligatory." When the circumcision part of a man's genitals enters a woman's, a ghusl is required with or without ejaculation. 

120-) Abdullah b. Umar says that my father Umar b. al-Khattab  told the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) that he was junub at 
night. He said: "After washing your genitals and performing ablution, go to sleep." welcome Bukhari, Ghusl, 5/27; Muslim, Hayd, 3/25. See also 
Shaybani, 55. After intercourse with his wife, a person takes a good bath and then takes a bath. If he delays washing, he performs ablution, at least 
washes his hands, and washes his face by performing mazmaza and istinshak. These are very beneficial for health. It relieves tiredness and 
fatigue. It gives lightness and comfort. 
121-) Urwa, Hisham's father, narrated that Aisha (radiyallahu anh) said: "Whoever among you wants to sleep without making ghusl after having 
intercourse with his wife, he should not sleep without making wudu like prayer." It came directly from Hadrat Aisha: Bukhari, Ghusl, 5/27; Muslim, 
Hayd, 122-) Nafi says: Abdullah b. When Umar (radiyallahu anh) wanted to sleep or eat while he was junub, he would wash his face and arms 
up to the elbows, wipe his head, then eat or sleep. 

123-) Ata b. Yashar narrated that: After saying takbir in a prayer, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went away, giving the signal "wait" with his 
hand, and after a while, water appeared on him (indicating that he had been washed). This is a mursal hadith: Bukhari, Ghusul, 5/17; Muslim, 
Masjid, 5/157,158. 
124-) Zubayd b. Salt tells: Umar b. al-Khattab  and "Curuf'e" "Curuf" is a place name three miles north of Medina. There was the land of Hazrat 
Umar. It is understood that the prayer he performs without making ghusl is the morning prayer. I went. He looked at her dress, realized that it was 
eczema (ejaculation in the dream). He also prayed without washing. Thereupon, Omar said: "By God, I had an affair, I was not aware of it. I prayed 
without making ghusl.” said. 
He immediately made ghusl, washed the semen he saw on his dress, and sprinkled water on the place he had not seen. After the sun had risen a 
little, he recited the call to prayer or recited the qamah. He repeated the prayer. 

125-) Süleyman b. Yasar narrates: Umar b. al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh) (after leading the congregation the morning prayer) went to his land in Curuf. Seeing semen on her dress there, she said: "Since I have taken over the management of the people, I have often had a seizure." he said, and immediately made a ghusl. He washed the semen on his clothes and repeated the prayer after the sun 
came up. 
126-) Süleyman b. From Yesar: Omar b. Khattab led the morning prayer to the congregation. Then, without wasting any time, he 
went to his land in Cüruf. There, looking at her dress, she realized that she had a fever and said: "When we eat meat, the veins 
relax." said. He made a ghusl immediately. She washed the dirt off her dress. He repeated his prayer (re-performed),  even though 
he led the congregational prayers when he was junub, only repeating the prayer himself and not having the congregation repeat 
their prayers indicates that if the imam forgets that he is junub and the congregation does not know about it, their prayers are not 
broken. If the imam leads him knowing that he is junub, the prayers of the congregation are also invalidated. 
127-) Yahya, son of Abdurrahman, son of Hatib, tells: Ömer b. I was going to Umrah with al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh). In the 
convoy, Amr b. There was also ace. After Hazrat Umar had gone for a while, he had an outbreak in the place where he was staying, 
and the morning was approaching. He could not find water to bathe in the convoy. He set off right away. When she got to the water, 
she started to wash the semen on her dress. It was bleak. Seeing this, Amr said to Omar: We have too many clothes with us. Change 
your clothes and wash them.” When he said, Omar: Woe to you, O Amr! You can find spare clothes, but can anyone? If I do as I say 
and change my dress, it will be a custom. Before doing so, I wash the part of my dress where I see the dishes, and sprinkle water on 
the places I do not see.» said. 128-) Imam-i  Malik says about a person who does not remember having rhinitis in his dream, sees 
semen on his clothes and does not know when it happened: "Let him make a ghusl as if he had an eczema in his last sleep. Because 
sometimes a person has an itch, he cannot see the semen, sometimes he sees the semen and is not aware that he has an irritant. 
Ghusl becomes obligatory on a person who sees semen on his clothes. 

Because Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) repeated the prayer after the last sleep, but did not repeat the prayers before it.» 

129-) Urve b. From Zubayr: Umm Sulaym to the Messenger of Allah: Women, like men, see that they have a fever in their 
dreams, should they make a ghusl?' He said, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Yes, let him make a ghusl". Thereupon, 
Hadrat Aisha said to Umm Sulaym: What do you say, can a woman ever see him (semen)?' said. (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) 
said to Aisha: May Allah be good (then) how does the child look like its mother?” he commanded. Muslim, Hayd, 3/30. See also 
Shaybani, 81. 
130-) Umm Salama, the wife of the Messenger of Allah, narrates: Umm Sulaym, the wife of Abu Talha al-Ansari,  came to 
the presence of the Messenger of Allah and said: O Messenger of Allah! Allah does not command to be ashamed about learning the 
truth. If a woman has a rash, should she make a ghusl? When he was asked, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied: Yes, when he 
sees the water (semen). Bukhari, Science, 3/50; Muslim, Hayd, 3/32. 
131-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh): "There is no harm in a woman's ghusl with water from someone 
else if she is menstruating or not junub." he would say. 
132-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) used to sweat when he was junub and then pray in the same clothes. 
133-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. When Omar's concubines were menstruating, he washed his feet and removed his prayer mat. 

they would give. 
134-) Imam-i  Malik: "It is permissible for a man to marry his two concubines without making ghusl. As for free women, it is makruh for a man who has had intercourse with one of his wives without making ghusl, but it is permissible for him to marry with one of his concubines while he is junub.” he replied. 135-) Imam-i  Malik said, "What would it be necessary if a junub man brought water to wash himself, forgetting that he was junub, and putting his finger in water to understand his temperature?" When they were asked, he replied: "If your finger is clean (if it is clean), it will not pollute the water." 
136-) The mother of the believers, Hadrat Aisha, narrates: We went on an expedition with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Beyda'ya Beyda: It is a hill on the way to Mecca against Zülhuleyfe. "Zatuljaysh" is a place 12 miles from Medina. Ibn 'Arabi says about the verse of tayammum: I could not find any evidence regarding which of the verses of tayammum Aisha was referring to. Ibn Baddal said, "The verse in the Nisa or Maida period is known as the ablution verse. There is no mention of wudu in the verse in Nisa.” Vahidi gives this hadith in his work called Eshab'un-Nüzül,  in the reason for the revelation of the verse in the Nisa period. Hanz Ibn Hajar says in Fethu'l-bari:  This situation, which is apparent to Imam Bukhari, is not known to everyone. Undoubtedly, this is the verse in the time of Mâîda. Abdurrahman b. Kasim says: "-Believers, when you want to stand up for prayer." (Maide: 6) before the verse was revealed (there was no tayammum), it was absolutely necessary to make wudu. Therefore, it was difficult for the companions to stay in a place without water. Or when I reached Zatül-Jayÿ,  my necklace broke and fell. The Messenger of Allah stayed there to look for my necklace, and the Companions stayed with him. There was no water there. There was no water with them. The Companions came to Abu Bakr as-Siddik  and said: Do you see what Aisha did? They stopped the Messenger of Allah and his Companions in a thirsty place, and they did not have water with them." Aisha says: The Messenger of Allah was sleeping with his head on my knee, while Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) came and said: You stopped the Messenger of Allah and his companions in a thirsty place. They don't have any water with them either," he was offended. 
and he scolded me, started hitting my side with his hand. I could not move because the head of the Messenger of Allah was on my knee. 
The Messenger of Allah slept until morning in a thirsty place. At this time, Allah the Almighty revealed the verse of tayammum, whereupon Usayd Ibn Hudayr said: It is not your first blessing, O family of Abu Bakr. said. When I lifted the camel, we found the necklace under it. Bukhari, Tayammum, 7/1; Muslim, Hayd, 3/108; Shaybani, 72 137-) Imam-i  Malik said: "Does a man who performs tayammum and performs tayammum 
again when the next prayer time comes?" When they were asked, he replied, "He does tayammum for every prayer, because he has to look for water for every prayer, and if he does not find water, he does tayammum." According to the Hanafi Madhhab, more than one obligatory and supererogatory prayer can be performed with one tayammum. Because tayammum replaces it when there is no water. A person can perform as many prayers as he wants with one wudu or perform tayammum. 
138-) Again, Imam-i  Malik said: "Is it permissible for a man who performs tayammum to lead his friends who have wudu?" When they ask: He can act as an imam, but it is better for someone else to do it. I don't see anything wrong with him being an imam." said. 
139-) Yahya says: "What would he do if a man who could not find water and did tayammum recites takbir and prays, and a man with water appears at that time?" When they asked Imam-i  Malik, "He does not break his prayer. He completes his prayer with the same tayammum and performs ablution for the following prayers. According to the Hanafi sect, the ablution of a person who sees the water while praying will be invalidated. 140-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person who goes to prayer cannot find water for wudu and makes tayammum, he has obeyed Allah. 
One who makes ablution with water is not considered cleaner than him, and his prayer is not more complete than his. Because both wudu and tayammum are commanded. Both of them did the command of Allah. The one who finds water and makes wudu, and those who do not find water and do tayammum before entering the prayer, acted according to Allah's command. 141-) Imam-i  Malik says: A junub person who cannot find water in a place where it is permissible to pray with tayammum, makes tayammum. Hizb: The Qur'an that is read daily. He reads 
and prays supererogatory prayers. 
142-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Cüruf with Omar: A place three miles north of Medina. Mirbed is a place one mile from Medina. We were on our way to Mirbed, and when he reached Mirbed, Abdullah got off (his mount), performed tayammum on the ground, wiped his face and both his arms up to his elbows, and then offered the prayer. (81/a)  Shaybani, 71. 
143-) Nafi says: Abdullah b. Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) used to wipe up to his elbows while doing tayammum, 144-) Imam-i  Malik: How is 
tayammum done and how far is it done?» he was asked. He also: He hits the ground for his face once, wipes his face, and a thousand times for his arms and wipes his arms up to his elbows," 145-) Abdurrahman b. From Harmale: A man Said b. To Musayyeb: What will a junub person do if he finds water after tayammum?' she asked. Said said: When he reaches the water, he must make a ghusl for the next prayers. When the 
excuse that makes tayammum permissible disappears, tayammum is also invalidated. If a person does tayammum instead of ghusl when there is no water, his tayammum breaks when he sees water and he has to wash. He does not make up the prayers he prays first. Because until that moment, tayammum has taken the place of ghusl. 146-) Imam-i  Malik says the following about a man who has a rash on a journey but has no water other than water to make ablution and cannot be thirsty until he reaches water: "With that water, he washes the private parts of the private parts and the places where the semen touches, and then, as Allah has commanded, he washes them in a clean place. 147-) They asked Imam-
i Malik: "If a junub man wants to do tayammum but cannot find any soil other than barren soil, will he perform tayammum with barren soil and is it makruh to pray there?" Malik: "Prayer is performed in a barren place and tayammum is made there. Because Allahu ta'ala said: Take tayammum from the clean earth" Nisa: 43. He can perform tayammum in any clean place, whether it is barren or not.” 
148-) Zayd b. From Eslem: A man asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): what is halal for me when I have menstruation?’ she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Let him tie his skirt (tie the end of his pants or wear his panties), you can do whatever you want with the top." Ibn Abdilber says: I do not know anyone who narrates it as a musnad with this wording. Its meaning is authentic and stable. says: Abu Dawud (Taharat, 1/82), Abdullah b. Narrated by Sa'd al-Ansari.  See also Shaybani, 
75. 
149-) Rabia b. From Abu Abdurrahman: While lying in bed with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) -he was wearing only his 
clothes-Hadrat Aisha suddenly got up and said to her: What is wrong with her, I think you have menstruation? When Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh) 
said: “Yes,” the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Put on your skirt (izar) and go to bed.” he commanded. Ibn Abdilber says: Muwatta narrators 
did not disagree on this hadith in the quantitative narration. I do not know whether it was narrated with this wording from Hadrat Aisha. Mana, 
Umm 
He is mutasil with the hadith of Salama. The Salama hadith is in the following sources: Bukhari, Hayd, 6/4; Muslim, Hayd, 3/5. 
150-) Nafi narrated as follows: Ubeydullah b. Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) sent Nafi'i to Aisha and asked her: Can a man hug his 
wife who is having a menstrual period? she told him to ask. When Nafi asked, Aisha (radiyallahu anh) said: "Let her wear her skirt from the 
waist down, and then hug her if she wants." said. Shaybani, 73. 151-) Imam-i  Malik narrates: Salim b. Abdullah and Süleyman b. From Yesar: 
"Can a woman who is cleared of menses have sexual intercourse with her husband without making a ghusl?" When asked: No, until you make 
a ghusl. 

until this work can not be done.» they said. Shaybani, 74. 
152-) Umm Alkame, the freedman of Hadrat Aisha, the mother of the believers, narrates: Women put yellowish menstrual blood and cotton in a box, send them to Hadrat Aisha and say: Can we pray now?» they ask, Aisha said to them: Do not rush, wait until you see it flowing white. he would say. Aisha: By saying "until you see white", she means to be cleansed of menstruation. 
153-) Abdullah b. Ebî Bakr from his aunt, from Zayd b. It was narrated from the daughter of Sabitin: "Women ask for lamps at midnight to see if they are getting rid of menstruation. Zayd's daughter also condemns them and used to say that women did not do this." 154-) Imam-i  Malik said, "Can a woman who is cleared of menstruation do tayammum if she cannot find water?" When they asked him: "Yes, let him do tayammum, his state is like that of a junub person. When he cannot find water, he makes tayammum." 155-) Imam-i  Malik narrates: Hadrat Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh), the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam); The pregnant woman who sees blood says, "She abandons the prayer." said. 156-) Imam-i  Malik asked Ibn Shihab about the condition of the pregnant woman who saw menstrual blood. He said: He does not perform the prayer. said. Malik: "This is the same for us." said. 
157-) From Aisha (radiyallahu anh): "I used to comb the head of Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) at the beginning of the month.” Bukhari, Hayd, 6/2; Muslim, Hayd, 3/9, 158-) From Esma (radiyallahu anh), the daughter of Abu Bakr as-Siddik:  A woman asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): What will she do if menstruation blood gets on the clothes of one of us? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If one of you gets menstrual blood on his clothes, he should wash that part by rubbing it with water, then let him perform the prayer with this dress. 
159-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh), the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) told: Abu Hubaysh’s daughter Fatima: O Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) I cannot get clean (my menstrual blood does not stop), should I stop praying?» she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said: It is normal blood coming from the vein, not menstrual blood. When menstruation begins, stop praying, when your menstrual days are over, wash your blood and perform the prayer." Bukhari, 6/8, Muslim, 3/62. 160-) Umm Salama, the wife of the Messenger of Allah, told: There was a woman in the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) whose menstrual blood did not stop. When he asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about this on his behalf, he said: How many days and nights in a month he was menstruating before he got this disease, let him stop praying every month. After so many days, he should make a ghusl and put a cloth (cotton, etc.) in place of his private parts, and then perform his prayer." Abu Dawud, Taharet, 17107; Nesai, Hayd ve'l-Istihada,  3/3. Also, see Shaybani, in figure 82, women perform an ablution for each prayer time, even if the blood does not flow. 161-) Zeynep, the daughter of Abu Salama, told: Abdurrahman b. Zaynab, daughter of Jahsh, Avf's wife, used to perform the ghusl when she was istihada (seeing the blood of sickness). 162-) Abu Bakr b. From Sümey, the freedman of Abdurrahman: b. Hakim and Zayd b. Eÿlem, Sümey'yi Said b. They sent him to ask the verdict of the woman who was istihadah from Musayyeb. When Sümey asked, Said: He makes a ghusl when the days of menstruation are over, and performs ablution for each prayer time until the next menstrual day. Shaybani replied, "Since the 83rd woman (who sees the blood of a disease) is considered an excuse, she performs ablution at every prayer time, just like those who have an excuse." 163-) Hisham narrates from his father, Urwa, that Mustahaza (who sees the blood of a disease) makes a ghusl only once. Then he performs ablution again for each prayer time. Shaybani, 84. 164-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, when he starts praying to the mustahaza, his husband can have intercourse with her. So is Lohusa. After finishing the longest period of her menstrual days, she can have intercourse with her husband—even  if she sees blood. In this case, that woman is considered a reckoning. According to Imam-i  Malik, the maximum number of postpartum days is sixty days. According to Hanafis, it is forty days. 165-) Imam-i  Malik says: Our evidence for Mustahaza is the hadith that Hisham narrated from his father. Of all the things I've heard on this subject, this is my favorite. 166-) From Hadrat Âisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha): They gave a baby to the lap of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam). She peed on her dress. The Prophet asked for water and sprinkled the water on the wet spot. Bukhari, Wudu, 4/59; Muslim, Taharet, 2/101. See also Shaybani, 40. 167-) From Umm Qays, Mihsan's daughter: I took my child, who has not eaten yet, to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He sat her in his lap. She also peed on her dress. Thereupon, the Messenger of God asked for water and sprinkled it on the wet ground. But he did not wash it by rubbing it. Bukhari, Wudu, 4/59; Muslim, Taharet, 2/103. The madhhab is based on this hadith about pouring water where children pee. 168-) Yahya b. Said (radiyallahu anh) narrates: A Bedouin entered the Masjid an-Nabawi  and lifted his skirts to pour a little water. Seeing this, the congregation shouted, and when the voices rose, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do not touch him. They didn't touch either. After the Bedouin made his wudu', the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked for a bucket of water. It was poured on the place where the Bedouin had broken his ablution. Bukhari, Wudu 4/58; muslim, 
Taharet, 2/99 169-) Abdullah b. From Dinar: Abdullah b. I saw Omar (radiyallahu anh) standing up and performing small ablutions. 170-) Imam-i  Malik: "Is there any work (Report) about making a bath with water after small ablution and great ablution?" When they asked: "I heard that some of the ancients used to make a bath with water after ablution. I find it appropriate to take a bath with water after the small ablution," he said. 171-) From Ibnu's-Sebbak  (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said on a Friday: O Muslim community! God made this day a feast. Then you made a ghusl. There is no harm in being rubbed by a person with a scent. Do not neglect to use the miswak.” He said." Ibn Majah (Iqamatu's-Salat,  5/83) reports authentically 172-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh). I would definitely order them to use a miswak.” Bukhari, Friday, 11/8; Muslim, Taharet, 2/42. 
173-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): If he were not afraid that his umma would be in trouble, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would order them to use the miswak every time they make wudu. Ibn Abdilber says: This hadith falls within the framework of a musnad hadith because of its mutasil and wording in many ways. 
174-) Yahya b. Said narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted two boards to be struck against each other so that the congregation would gather for prayer. In those days, Abdullah b. When Zayd al-Ansari  (radiyallahu anh) saw two boards in his dream, he said, "These are like the boards that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted." He said to him: "Don't you say the adhan for the prayer?" it was said. When he woke up and told the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) his dream, he ordered the adhan to be called. Abu Dawud, Salat, 2/28; Tirmidhi, Salat, 2/25; Ibn Majah, Adhan, 3/1. 
175-) From Abu Said al-Khudri  (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When you hear the adhan, say exactly what the muezzin said. , Adhan, 10/7; Muslim, Salat, 4/10; Shaybani, 91, 176-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said that the 
Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If people knew the virtues in the adhan and in the first row, if there was no opportunity other than to call the adhan and to be in the first row, there would be no other possibility. they would surely draw lots. If they knew the virtue of coming to prayer early, they would race to come early. If they knew the rewards and rewards of the isha and morning prayers, they would come to them even if they were crawling.” Bukhari, Adhan, 10/9; Muslim, Salat, 4/129. 
177-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When the prayer is done, do not come to the prayer by running, come to him slowly, perform the rak'ahs you can reach with the imam, and complete the ones you cannot reach yourself. Because as long as you turn to prayer, you will be counted in prayer » Bukhari, Azan, 10/21; Muslim, Masjid, 5/151-155. 
178-) Abdurrahman b. Abdullah b. Abdurrahman b. Ebî Sa'saa al-Ansari  from his father, Abdullah: Abu Said al-Khudri  (radiyallahu anh) told me: I see that you love sheep and sheath very much. When you are with your sheep in the countryside, say the adhan aloud for prayer. Because I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam); He said: "The jinn, humans and everything that hears the muezzin's voice will testify to him on the Day of Judgment." Bukhari, Adhan, 10/5. 
179-) It was reported from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: While the adhan is being recited, the devil runs away to the point where he can't hear the adhan with a wind. It comes back when the azan is over. He runs away again while the Kaamet is being brought, and returns again when it's over. In fact, it enters the heart of the person praying and says "remember such and such a thing", reminding him of unthinkable things, surprising him to such a degree that he forgets how many rak'ahs he has prayed. Bukhari, Adhan, 10/4; Muslim, Salat, 4/19. 180-) Sa'd es-Saidi's  son, Sahl, says: The gates of the heavens are opened at two times, and the prayers of most of those who pray are accepted: While the adhan is being recited and while fighting for the sake of Allah's religion. Ibn Abdilber says: This hadith is valid according to Muwatta narrators, such an opinion cannot be said with an opinion. It is narrated in many ways: Ebu Hazÿm-Sahl  b. Sa'd Rasulullah. 
181-) To Imam-i  Malik: Is it permissible to call the adhan before the time starts on Friday? when they asked: "No, the adhan is called when 
the sun returns from low." he replied. 182-) Imam-i  Malik answered those who asked that the words should be repeated twice in the adhan and kaamet and when the congregation should stand up after the prayer; “I did not hear anything other than what I saw from the people of Medina about the adhan and the kaamet. Words are not repeated in Kaamet. It is said once. This is what the ulama of Madinah did constantly. The madhhab of Hadrat Imam-i  Malik is mostly based on the deeds of the people of Madinah and the hadiths narrated from them. They say the words twice in the adhan and once in the ka'amet -as in some hadiths. They only say "-Kad  kaametissalah" twice, which Imam-i  Malik and Imam Shafii accepted. Hanifah and Hanafi imams, on the other hand, decided that words should be said twice in the Ka'amet -just as in the adhan-based on the following hadith: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "... and the qamah is seventeen words.... Allahu akbar Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar Allahu akbar. Ashhadu enla ilahe illallah, ashhadu enla ilahe illallah. Eÿhedu anna Muhammeden Rasûlullah, Eÿhedu anna Muhammeden Rasûlullah. Hayye alessalah, hayye alessalah. Hayye alelfalah, hayye alelfalah. Kad kaametissalah, kad kaametissalah. Allahu Akbar Allahu Akbar. La ilaha illallah.” (Abu Dawud, volume 1 p. 137, Hadith No: 502). As for getting up while being taken, I haven't heard anything definite about it. Here, I believe that the congregation should act according to their power. Because some of them are poor, that is, they are old, sick or weak. Not everyone can be one so that they all get up.” 183-) They asked Imam-i  Malik; “The congregation wants to gather in a place and perform the obligatory prayer. Is it enough if they don't call the adhan and just pray?" Malik said: “The 
judgment is enough for them. Adhan becomes obligatory only in masjids where congregational prayers are performed.” said. According 
to Hanafi imams, it is sunnah to call the adhan no matter where the prayer is performed, even if it is accidental prayers. Only if the accident prayer is to be performed for more than one time, the adhan is recited once, for other times it is sufficient to call the prayer. Imam-i  Malik's term "Wâjib" above about the adhan means "Sunnah al-Muakkeda"  and according to all imams, the adhan is sunnah, only in the Hanbali school, in cities and towns, it is fard kifaya. When it is recited in a mosque, it becomes obligatory from other mosques, and it becomes sunnah to call the adhan in those mosques. 184-) To Imam-i  Malik; The muezzin was asked to greet the imam and call him to prayer, and who should be greeted first. Malik: "I did not receive any news of greetings at first." said. 
185-) Yahya said: To Malik; "Does a person who recites the adhan for a congregation and waits to see if someone will come later, but stops and performs the prayer alone when no one comes, then repeats the prayer with them when the congregation comes?" they asked. Malik: “He does not repeat the prayer. The one who comes after the muezzin prays does it alone," he said. 
186-) He asked Imam-i  Malik, "Is it permissible for the congregation to make someone else pray and pray if the muezzin stops performing the sunnah after reciting the adhan?" He said to those who say: "There is no difference between the muezzin's sitting and someone else's." If there is no obligation or necessity, it is preferable for the person who recites the adhan to stand. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Whoever recites the adhan, he will be the one who recites the adhan." (Abu Dawud v.1, p. 116-126) 
187-) Imam-i  Malik says: The adhan for the morning prayer is permissible before dawn. However, it is not permissible to call the adhan 
before the time has entered in other prayers. It is permissible to call the adhan before dawn in the Maliki, Shafii and Hanbali madhhabs. But the morning prayer is performed after dawn. Hanafis say it is not permissible, and those who say it is permissible say that it is sunnah to return it after dawn. Imam Ahmad says, "It is repeated only in Ramadan; at other times, the call to prayer before dawn is sufficient." The following hadiths also confirm the views of Hanafi imams: "One morning Bilal Abyssinian (radiyallahu anh) recites the adhan before dawn, the Prophet (pbuh) who saw this said to Bilal: Go to the place where you call the adhan aloud. : Call out, "Under the influence of sleep, Bilal read before dawn." he commanded. (Abu Dawud vol.1, p.116-126) It is understood that the Prophet did not consent to the call to prayer before dawn. Again, during the caliphate of Hazrat Umar, when a muezzin named Mazruk recited the adhan before dawn, Hazrat Umar ordered him to repeat the adhan after dawn. (Abu Dawud v.1, p.116-126) Sometimes Bilal-i  Abyssinian recited the adhan before dawn, this was not for the morning prayer, but to raise the Muslims to the tahajjud prayer. On such days, the adhan was called for the second time after dawn. Today, it is applied in the same way in the Kaaba and Ravza-i  Mutahhara. 188-) The following is reported from Imam-i  Malik; The muezzin was going to come to Hadrat Omar and call him for the morning prayer, when he saw that he was sleeping, he said: Essalatu hayrun minennevm (Prayer is better than sleep). Hearing this, Umar (radiyallahu anh) ordered him to add this word to the adhan of the morning prayer. (11/a)  satanic 91. 
189-) Abu Suheyl narrated from his father Malik: What I see from reliable people is that they call the adhan at every prayer time. 190-) Imam-i  Malik narrates from Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar was in Baki, when he heard the call to prayer, he quickly went to the 
mosque. 
191-) Nafi says: On a windy and cold night, Abdullah b. 'Umar recited the adhan: "Perform your prayer next to your load." he called. Then: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to the muezzin: On cold and rainy nights, perform your prayers next to your loads!” he commanded her to call," he said. Bukhari, Adhan, 10/8; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/22, 23. 
192-) Nafi narrated: Abdullah b. Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) recited the adhan and recited only the morning prayer during the journey, and recited kaamat at other times, and said, “Azan is necessary when the congregational prayer is performed.” he would say. 
193-) Hisham b. Urwa narrates: My father said to me: "When you are on an expedition, if you want, you can call the adhan and perform the prayer, if you want, you can only bring the prayer without the call to prayer." 
194-) Yahya: I heard Imam-i  Malik say: "There is no harm in reciting the adhan while on a horse." 
195-) Said b. It was narrated from al-Museyyeb:  Whoever prays in the countryside, there is an angel on his right and on his left. 
an angel is with him. If he recites the adhan, prays, or stands alone and prays, angels pray as well as the mountains behind him. (They donate his reward to him.) 196-) Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Bilal calls the adhan before dawn. Eat and drink the suhoor meal until Ibn Ummi Maktum recites the second adhan.” Bukhari, Savm, 30/17; Muslim, Savm, 13/36-38. 197-) Salim b. Abdullah narrated: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Bilal calls the adhan early. Eat and drink the suhoor meal until Ibn Ummi Maktum recited the adhan.” Bilâl-i  Habeshi (radiy-Allâhu  anh) would sometimes recite the adhan before dawn, to wake Muslims up for the tahajjud prayer or sahur. Abdullah b. Ummi Maktum was calling the second adhan at dawn with the sign of the congregation. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told them to eat sahur until this adhan, that is, until the dawn. he commanded. Ummi Mektum was a woman, she would not call the adhan before it was said to her: "The dawn is breaking". Ibn Abdilber says: "There was no opposition to Imam-i  Malik on the issue that the first isnad is mawsul." 
198-) Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) says: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to raise his hands up to the level of his ears when he was praying. When he lifted his head from ruku', he would raise his hands and say, "Semiallahu limen hamiden, rabbena lakalhamd". He would not raise his hands when coming to prostration and getting up from prostration. Bukhari, Adhan, 10/83; Muslim, Salat, 4/21-22. See also Shaybani, one of the 99th madhhab imam, based on this hadith alone, says that it is sunnah to raise the hands when performing ruku' and when getting up from ruku'. Hanafi, Maliki and Hanbali imams say that it is sunnah to raise one's hands only while standing for prayer, based on the hadith that "hands cannot be raised anywhere but seven places...". Those seven places: While standing for prayer, before the kunut prayer in the witr prayer, in four places in the eid takbirs and in the pilgrimage. 199-) Ali, son of Hadrat-i  Ali's son Hadrat Huseyn (radiy-Allâhu  anh), narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to say takbir while bowing and bowing in prostration and standing up from prostration. He always prayed like this until he attained Allah's mercy. ÿeybanî, 102 200-) Süleyman b. Yesar narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) raised his hands while saying takbir. 
201-) Ebû Salama b. Abdurrahman b. Awf says: Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) used to lead us in prayer and say takbir while bowing and straightening. After the prayer, he said: By Allah, I am the one whose prayer resembles the prayer of the Messenger of Allah the most. Bukhari, Azan, 10/115; Muslim, Salat, 4/27. See also Shaybani, 103. 202-) Salim says: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) used to say takbir while bowing and straightening in prayer. 203-) Nafi says: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) used to raise his hands to the level of his shoulders while standing in prayer, and slightly below his shoulders when standing up from ruku. 204-) Wahb, son of Keysan, says: Jabir, son of Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu  anh), taught us to say takbir in prayer and ordered us to say takbir while bowing and straightening. Shaybani, 102. 205-) Imam-i  Malik says: Ibn Shihab: "If a person reaches one rak'ah of the prayer performed in congregation and can say a takbir by intending the takbir of iftitah, he will have reached the congregation." Abu Dawud, Salat, 2/115. The situation may be as follows: If the newcomer says a takbir with the intention of takbir of iftitah without saluting the imam, after the congregation has sat down to the final tahiyyah, he will have reached the congregation and received the thawab of the congregation. said. Malik: "This happens when he intends the takbir of iftitah with takbir." said. 206-) To Imam-i  Malik: Is it okay if a man prays with the imam, forgets the takbirs of iftitah and ruku, remembers after performing one rak'ah and says takbir in the second rak'ah? When he is asked: It is permissible to start the prayer again. If he forgets to recite the takbir of iftitah with the imam, utters takbir in the first ruku and intends to utter the takbir of iftitah, it will be permissible. 207-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person forgets the takbir of iftitah while praying by himself, he starts the prayer again.' 208-) Imam-i  Malik says: "If the imam forgets the takbir of iftitah and does not remember it until he finishes the prayer, he repeats the prayer. And those behind him repeat the prayer, even if they say takbir." 
209-) Jubayr (radiyallahu anh), son of Mut'im, said: "I heard that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited Surah Tur during the evening prayer." Bukhari, Adhan, 10/99; Muslim, Salat, 4/174. 210-) Abdullah b. Abbas (radiyallahu anh) says: I was reciting the surah "Vel Murselati Urfen" (the 77th sura Mursalat). Hearing this, my mother—Harith  daughter Ummul Fadl—My  son! By reading this surah, you reminded me of the last surah that I heard the Messenger of Allah recited in the evening prayer!' said. Bukhari, Adhan, 10/98; Muslim, Salat, 4/173. 211-) Abu Abdillah es-Sunabihi  narrates: I went to Medina during the caliphate of Abu Bakr; I did the evening prayer behind it. He recited Fatiha and a short surah in the first two rak'ahs. When I got up for the third rak'ah, I approached him until my clothes touched his clothes, with Fatiha, "Rabbena la Tuziÿ kulûbena ba'de iz hedeytena ve heb lena min ledunke mercy inneke entel vehhâb", the 8th verse of the Âl-i  îmran sura, the meaning of the kerîma: Our Lord! After guiding us to the right path, do not turn our hearts to falsehood, and grant us mercy from Yourself, surely you are eternal. 
You are the donor.” In the last rak'ah of the evening prayer, the surah is not read after Fatiha. Hadrat Abu Bakr must have read the above verse with the intention of prayer. I heard you read the verse. 
212-) Nafi' says: Abdullah b. While Umar (radiyallahu anh) was praying alone (in obligatory prayers), he would recite Fatiha and a 
surah from the Qur'an in four rak'ahs. Imam-i  Malik and other imams are against the reciting of the surahs in the four rak'ahs of 

the obligatory prayers. They considered it makruh to recite anything other than Fatiha in the last two rak'ahs of the four-rak'ah  
fards and the third rak'ah of the evening prayer. They considered it makruh based on the following hadith in Bukhari and Muslim 
-Reported from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh). "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would recite Fatiha and one surah in the first two 
rak'ahs of the noon prayer, and only Fatiha in the last two rak'ahs." Sometimes he would recite two and three surahs in one rak'ah of 
the obligatory prayers. Shaybani, 133. 
213-) Berâ b. Âzip (radiy-Allâhu  anh) reported: I performed the night prayer together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and 
he recited the surah Ve't-Tini  during the prayer. 
214-) Ali b. Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu  anh) says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade (men) to wear silk clothes, to wear gold rings, 
and to recite the Qur'an while bowing. 215-) Al-Beyâdi  (radiy-Allâhu  anh) reported: Some of the Companions were praying by 
reciting aloud. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) came to them and said: 'Whoever prays is praying to his Lord 
and is in the presence of his Lord. Do not disturb each other's peace by reciting the Qur'an aloud." Muslim, Libas ve'z-Zine,  37/29. 

216-) Enes b. Malik (radiyallahu anh) says: I prayed behind Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman, none of them were reciting the basmala 
(openly) when they started the prayer. This hadith came from Abu Said al-Khudri:  Abu Dawud, Salat, 5/25. 

217-) Abu Suhayl narrates from his father Malik as follows: Umar b. While al-Khattab  (radiy-Allâhu  anh) was praying, we heard 
his recitation from the house of Abu Cehm in al-Belat.  Umar (radiyallahu anh) used to recite cehri while performing the rak'ahs that 
he could not reach the imam in the prayers that were recited openly. 

219-) Yazid, son of Ruman, says: Jubayr b. I was praying next to Mut'im's son, Nafi, while we were praying (pause in reciting), 
he pointed to me, and I told him where he could not remember. If the imam leading the prayer errs or pauses in the recitation, 
one of the congregation performing the same prayer will tell you where the imam was mistaken. Another person who does not 
perform the same prayer cannot say it. 
220-) Hisham, his father, narrates from Urwa: Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu  anh) performed the morning prayer and recited Surah Al-

Baqara in two rak'ahs. 

221-) Urve, Amir b. Rebia's son Abdullah narrates that he said: We performed the morning prayer behind Hadrat Umar (radiyallahu 
anh), and he recited the surahs of Yusuf and Hajj slowly during the prayer. Urve says: I said to Abdullah: Then Umar (radiy-Allâhu  
anh) was getting up at dawn. He said: Yes. 222-) Fürâfisa al-Hanefi,  son of Umeyer, says: You should recite Surah Yusuf very much 
in the morning prayer of Hazrat Osman. 

I memorized it from reading. 
223-) Nafi' says: Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), son of Hadrat Omar, detailed detailed surahs in the morning prayer on a journey: They are short surahs with less than a hundred verses and many intervals with basmala. Like Hujurat and later surahs. He recited from the first ten of the surahs, and recited a surah with the Fatiha in each rak'ah. . 224-) Abu Said, the freed man of Amir, the son of Qurayz, narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) called to Ubey, son of Ka'b (radiyallahu anh), who was praying, and when he finished the prayer, he caught up with His Messenger Ekrem, who was about to leave the mosque. The Prophet took Ubay's hand and said: I want you not to leave the mosque until you learn the importance of the surah that Allah has not revealed in the Torah, the Bible or the Qur'an. Ubayy says: After I slowed down my steps so that I could learn it, when I heard it: Messenger of Allah! Teach me the surah you promised me!” said." The Messenger of Allah said: What do you read when you start the prayer?' he commanded. I started by saying "Alhamdu lillahi Rabbil amin..." and recited the Fatiha to the end. When he finished, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: This is the highest surah of the Qur'an-i  Azim given to me. This surah has seven verses. Bukhari (Tafsir, 65/1) quotes a similar one from Abu Said al-Mualla.  Ubay knew Surah Fatiha before. What the Messenger of Allah wanted to teach him is the honor and virtue of this surah. Ibn Abdilbarderki on the fact that there is no one like it in the Torah, Gospel and Qur'an: Absence of such is the collection of great meanings in this period. Because in this surah, there is praise to Allah. True praise and praise are reserved for Allah. Because all good is from him. In this surah, there is the utmost respect for Allah. It has been stated that he is the Lord of all the worlds, that he is the Most Merciful and the Most Merciful, that Allah is the sole possessor and authority in this world and the next, that all worship is reserved for him, and that He is the only being to take refuge. At the same time, there is prayer in this surah. Guidance is sought from Allah, and one seeks refuge in Allah from misguidance. Prayer is the door to worship. 
225-) Abdullah, son of Jabir, says: If a person does not recite Fatiha in prayer, he will not have prayed. However, if he is praying behind the imam, he may not read it. Here, it is obligatory to recite the Fatiha in prayer, and in the prayer performed with the imam. 
It is reported that it is not obligatory. It is the same in the Hanafi school. 
226-) Hisham b. Abu's-Saib,  the freed slave of Zuhre, says: I heard Abu Hurayra's Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: If a person prays but does not 
recite Fatiha, that prayer is incomplete, that prayer is incomplete, that prayer is incomplete, it is not complete. He continues and says: When he 
heard this, he said to Abu Huraira: O Abu Hurayra! Sometimes I pray behind the imam, will I recite the Fatiha then?» Abu Huraira squeezed my arm, 
then said: O Iranian! Then you recite Fatiha silently. Because I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Allah Almighty says; 
“I divided the prayer (= Fatiha in terms of meaning) between me and my servant. Half mine, half my servant. My servant will be given what he wants. 

The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Recite (the Fatiha)" and continued as follows: "When the servant says: Alhamdulillah 
Rabbil alemin," Allah says: "My servant has praised me." When the servant says "Errahmanirrahîm", Allah says: "My servant has praised me". When 
the servant says "Maliki yevmiddin", Allah says: "My servant praised me and glorified me". Ash; When Allah said, "Iyyake na'budu wa iyyake nestain", 
Allah said: "This verse is between me and my servant. 
My servant will be given what he wants”. Kul «ÿhdinassÿratel Müstakim. When Siratallezine said en'amte 'alaihim non-magdubi  'alaihim veladdallin', 
Allah said: 'These verses belong to my servant. My servant will be given what he asks for.” says. Muslim, Salat, 4/38. See also Shaybani, 114 227-) 
Hisham, narrating from his father Ürve, says: While my father was praying in congregation, he recited (Fatiha and Surah al-Fatiha)  when the imam 
did not recite the cehri (openly). 

228-) Rabia, son of Abu Abdurrahman, says: "Qasim, son of Muhammad, used to recite when he was behind the Imam, where he was not 
reading aloud. Shaybani, 118 229-) Yazid, son of Ruman, says: "Nafi' son of Jubayr used to read behind the imam, in places where buckthorn 
was not read." Malik says: "Of all I've heard, this is what I like best." The opinion of the imams regarding the recitation of Fatiha in prayer is as 
follows: According to Abu Hanifa, it is obligatory to recite Fatiha in all rak'ahs of sunnah and supererogatory prayers and in the first two rak'ahs 
of fard prayers. Regardless of the prayer performed in congregation, whether the imam recites cehri (voice) or hafi (hidden), it is makruh for the 
congregation to recite Fatiha. According to Imam Shafii, it is obligatory to recite the Fatiha in all prayers and in all rak'ahs of the obligatory 
prayers, whether he is praying alone, whether he is an imam or following the imam, whether the imam's reciter is recited or if it is hafi. According 
to Imam-i  Malik, it is makruh for the congregation to recite Fatiha if the imam recites cehri, and mandub if it is recited secretly. Shaybani, 112, 115. 

230-) Nafi' says: Abdullah b. To Umar (radiyallahu anh): Do those who follow the imam read the Qur'an? He replied: "When one of you prays 
behind the imam, it is enough for the imam to recite it, when he performs it alone, he should recite it". says: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) 
would not recite the Qur'an behind the imam. 231-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, if the imam does not read cehri, the people behind him do. 
If the imam is reciting cehri, 

those behind them abandon the recitation. 
232-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) narrates: After the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led a prayer that he performed openly, he turned to the 
congregation and said: Did any of you recite sacrifice with me?' said. Someone from the congregation: I read it, O Messenger of Allah!' He said: 
"Why am I getting restless while reading the Qur'an?" he said. Upon this warning, the Companions stopped reading the Qur'an during the prayers 
that the Messenger of Allah recited aloud. Nesai, ÿftitah, 11/28, See also. In the 111th hadith of Shaybani, it is clear that the congregation should 
not recite the prayers, especially when the imam reads aloud. 

233-) Abu Huraira narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When the imam says amen, say amen too. Because, 
whoever says amen coincides with the angels saying "Amen", his past sins will be forgiven. Shaybani, 135. If he prays with good intentions, angels 
also attend his worship and donate his reward and reward to the people who worship. When the imam recites Fatiha and says "Amen" (O Allah, 
accept my worship) in the prayers in which cehri are recited, "angels also say "Amen". Meanwhile, when the congregation says amen, their past sins 
are forgiven. 

234-) It was narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) that his Messenger, Ekrem (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When the Imam (while 
reciting the Fatiha) says “Gayril maghdubi ’alaihim veleddâllin”, say “Amen”. Because whoever says amen coincides with the angels saying amen, 
his past sins will be forgiven. Bukhari, Adhan, 10/113. Muslim, Salat, 4/76. 

235-) It was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu  anh) that the Messenger of Allah said: When someone says "Amen", the angels in 
the sky also say "Amen". When two "Amen" words coincide, the past sins of the servant are forgiven. Bukhari, Adhan, 10/112; Muslim, Salat, 
4/75 236-) It was reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) that his Messenger, Ekrem (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When the 
Imam said “Semiallahu limen hamiden” (Allah hears the person who praises himself), he said, Say "Allahumma Rabbana lakal hamd" (Our God! 
Our Lord! Praise belongs to you.). Whoever's word coincides with those of the angels, his past sins will be forgiven." Bukhari, Adhan, 10/125; 
Muslim, Salat, 4/71. 

237-) Ali al-Muavi,  son of Abdurrahman, says: I was playing with pebbles in prayer. Seeing this, Abdullah b. 
Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: (In prayer) do as the Messenger of Allah did. “How would the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) do it?” I said, "When the Messenger of Allah sits on the tahiyyah during the prayer, he puts his right hand on his right thigh, clenches his fingers, and points with the index finger. Bâcî says: It is not to give an opportunity to the devil, who gives the index and delusions with the finger of martyrdom in tahiyyat, and to ensure peace in prayer. Others say: Here, the meaning of the sign is Tawhid.» they say. He used to put his left hand on his left thigh," she said. , Masâcid, 5/116. See also Shaybani, 144. 
238-) Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), son of Hadrat Omar, told Abdullah, son of Dinar: (I was praying.) A man was praying next to me. In the fourth rak'ah, he sat cross-legged  when he sat on the tahiyyah. When he finished the prayer: Why did you sit like this?' When the man said: This is how you do it.' said. Then Abdullah said: I am disabled. "I'm sick of my feet," he said. 
239-) Mugire, son of Hakim, says: Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu  anh), son of Hadrat Umar, was sitting with his feet on the ground and his knees bent during both prostrations. After the prayer, Mugire asked why he did this, Abdullah said: It is not sunnah to sit like that during the prayer. I'm sitting like this because my foot hurts!” said. 
240-) Abdullah b. Omar's son Abdullah tells: My father Abdullah was sitting cross-legged  during the prayer. So did I. — I was still young then.—  My father, Abdullah: Don't sit like that. Sitting, which is sunnah in prayer, is to sit on the left foot with the right foot up.” said. When I said: "You are sitting cross-legged,"  he said, "My feet do not carry me." Bukhari," Adhan, 10/145. 
241-) — Yahya the son of Sa'd says: Qasim son of Muhammad taught us how to sit —during  Tahiyyat-: He planted his right foot, laid his left foot down, and sat on his left thigh. He did not sit on his feet. Later; Abdullah, the grandson of Hazrat Umar, taught me how to sit, and he said that his father Abdullah sat like that," he said. 
247-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) says: “The forehead of the person who raises his head before the imam in prayer is in the hands of the devil. (That is, he who raises and lowers his head is following the devil.) 248-) Imam-i  Malik says: Regarding the person who raises his head without waiting for the imam in ruku and prostration: What is sunnah in this regard is to return to ruku and prostration. Then he does not wait for the imam. This is an error. Because the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "The imam has been made an imam to be followed. Be sure to follow the imam and do not oppose him.” Hurayra says: "Whoever raises his head before the imam, his bangs are in the hands of the devil." The hadith is narrated from Abu Huraira: Bukhari, Adhan, 10/74; Muslim, Salat 249-) Abu Huraira narrated as follows: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saluted in two rak'ats (in a four-rak'ah  
prayer), Zulyadeyn said: O Messenger of Allah! Has the prayer been shortened or have you forgotten?” said. Then he turned to the 
congregation and said: Is it true what he said?' when they said: they said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) prayed two more rak'ahs and then saluted, then took the takbir and prostrated as usual or longer (for asphyxiation). Bukhari, Sahv, 22/4; Muslim, Masâcid, 5/97. 
250-) Abu Huraira narrated as follows: While performing the afternoon prayer, he saluted in two rak'ats. Thereupon, Zulyadeyn stood up: O Messenger of Allah! Has the prayer been shortened, or have you forgotten to salute in two rak'ahs? When he said, "None of these happened," he said: "O Messenger of Allah! There must have been someone," said his Messenger Ekrem, turning to the congregation: Did he tell the truth?» said. When the Companions said, "Yes", the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up, offered the remaining two rak'ahs, and after saluting, made two sajdah prostrations in his seat. Muslim, Masâcid, 5/99. 251-) Abu Bakr, son of Solomon, said to me: When he (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) saluted in two rak'ats during the noon and afternoon prayers during the daytime prayers, Zusshimalayn said: O Messenger of Allah! Has the prayer been shortened or have you forgotten?” says. His Messenger, Ekrem, said: "I have not shortened the prayer, nor have I forgotten it", Zusshimalayn said: "O Messenger of Allah, it must have been one of them." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah turned to the congregation and said: Is Zulyadeyn telling the truth? said. And they said: Yes, O Messenger of Allah!' When he said that, the Messenger of Allah completed the remaining rak'ahs and saluted (by making the prostration of astounding). Ibn Abdilber says: All the narrators narrated the hadith as mursal from Malik. Muslim (Masacid, 5/88) reports from Abu Said al-Khudri. 252-) Ebû Salama b. It was narrated similarly from Abdurrahman. 253-) Imam-i  Malik says: In cases where something is missing in the prayer, the prostration of sajdah is done before the salutation, and after the salutation when something is done more in the prayer. 254-) Ata, son of Yasar, narrated that the Messenger of Allah said: If any of you doubts about how many rak'ahs he has prayed, three or four, let him perform one more rak'ah and perform two prostrations before sitting down and saluting. If it is the fifth rak'ah he performs, the sajdah as-sahw  makes it double (that is, six rak'ahs). Otherwise, if there are four rak'ahs, the prostration of sajdah (who wants to give delusions in prayer) will crack the devil." 
255-) Abdullah, son of Hadrat Umar, used to say: Whoever of you has doubts about how many rak'ahs he has performed in prayer, Let him think and pray according to the way his opinion is strong. Then he should make two sajdahs while sitting. 
256-) Ata, son of Yesâr, says: Amr b. I asked Abdullah, son of As, and Qabul-Ahbar,  what should a person who doubts whether he prayed three or four rak'ahs should do, they both said: Let him perform one more rak'ah, then two more prostrations while sitting. 
257-) Nafi' says: Abdullah b. He said to Umar (radiyallahu anh): "What should a person who forgets in prayer do? When he is asked: Let him research it mentally, and perform the prayer according to the way he has strong convictions! he replied. 258-) Abdullah, son of Bujayna, told the following: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed two rak'ahs while leading us in prayer, the congregation stood up without sitting in a tahiyya. When he finished his prayer, he made the sajdah of sahw and said the takbir where he was sitting, without saluting, and then saluted. Bukhari, Sahw, 22/10; Muslim, Masâcid, 5/85. 259-) Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) son of Buceyne says; “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was leading the noon prayer for us. When he performed two rak'ahs, he stood up without sitting down. Salam after performing the sajdah as-sahw  when you finish the prayer 
gave. 
260-) Imam-i  Malik said about the person who gets up after completing four rak'ahs in prayer, and remembers that he finished the prayer after bowing and straightening up: "He sits down without prostrating, even if he remembers after performing one, he does not do the second prostration, he recites the tashahhud and prays. When it is finished, he makes the sajdah prostration after saluting where he is sitting.” Bukhari, Sehv, 22/1; Muslim, Masâcid, 5/87. 261-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) narrates: Abu Cehm (radiyallahu anh), son of Huzeyfe, presented the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) with an elegant embroidered dress. She prayed with that dress, and when she finished the prayer: Give this dress back to Abu Jahm. He almost lost my peace in prayer.” he commanded. Bukhari, Salat, 8/14; Muslim, Masâcid, 5/62. 
262-) Urwa reports from his father, Hisham: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wore an elegant embroidered dress. Then she gave it to Abu Jahm and took a dress made of thick fabric, without embroidery. Abu Jahm: Why did you change it, O Messenger of Allah!' When he said: My eye fell on his embroidery.» Ibn Abdilber says: All narrators have narrated from Malik as mursal. 
263-) Abdullah, son of Abu Bakr, narrates: While he was praying in the garden of Abu Talha al-Ansari,  a pigeon flew in front of him. The animal was looking for a place to escape, as if surprised. This situation pleased Abu Talha, and he followed the bird with his eyes for a while. Later he regained consciousness, but did not know how many rak'ahs he had performed. Thereupon, Abu Talha said, "I am disturbed in this garden," and came to the Messenger of Allah and said: O Messenger of Allah! Let my garden be a charity (foundation) for Allah, use it as you wish.” Ibn Abdilber says: I do not know that this hadith was narrated in any other way, it is a mundane hadith. 264-) Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu  anh), son of Abu Bakr, narrates: A man from the Ansar (Abu Talha) He was praying in his garden in the "Kuffa" valley, one of the valleys of Medina. It was a time when the fruits were ripe. The trees could not bear the palm clusters that filled their heads. At one point, Abu Talha's eyes fell on the trees, and he liked the fruits, and he fell in love. Later, he regained consciousness, not being aware of how many rak'ahs he had prayed. Thereupon, Abu Talha said: “This property disturbs my peace. He kept me busy in prayer,” he said, and went to the presence of Hazrat Uthman (radiyallahu anh), who was the caliph at that time, told him about the situation and let this garden be charity (foundation). He said to spend it on charity. Hazrat Uthman sold it for fifty thousand dirhams. He spent his money on charity. After that, that garden was called "fifty thousand". 265-) It was narrated from Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah said: "When one of you stands for prayer, the devil comes to him and surprises him. He does not know how many rak'ahs he has prayed. Whoever of you is like this, let him prostrate in his seat." Bukhari, Sahv, 22/7; Muslim, Masâcid, 5/82, See also. Shaybani, 136. 266-) It was reported to Imam-i  Malik that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Sometimes I forget, or I am made to forget, so that I can make a decree in religion." Ibn Abdilber says: I do not know that this hadith was narrated from his Messenger, Ekrem, as neither musnad nor maktu. It was only reported in this way. This is a hadith that is not found as musnad and mursal in books other than Muwatta, but only in Muwatta. Its meaning is correct according to the method. 267-) Imam-i  Malik narrates: A man told Qasim, son of Muhammad: I am wrong in prayer. This happens to me a lot", when Kasÿm said: "Don't be alarmed. Be firm in prayer. Stop the delusion. Otherwise, you will be suspicious until you finish the prayer, you will think that your prayer is incomplete." 
268-) Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu  anh) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever makes ghusl on Friday as if he was janaba and goes to prayer in the first hour (early) will be as if he sacrificed a camel. If he goes in the second hour (a little late), it will be as if he had sacrificed a cow. Whoever goes at the third hour is as if he had sacrificed a horned ram. Whoever goes at the fourth hour is like giving alms to a chicken. Whoever goes at the fifth hour would be as if he had given an egg as charity. When the imam ascends the pulpit, angels come and listen to the sermon. Bukhari, Friday, 11/4; Muslim, Friday, 7/10. 269-) Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) says: Everyone who reaches the age of puberty is to get rid of junubism on Friday. 
It is necessary to perform a ghusl like the ghusl one does. Here, the term wajib (must) is used to express the importance of ghusl on Friday. The consensus is that ghusl is sunnah. 
270-) Salim, son of Abdullah, narrates: While Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) was delivering the sermon on Friday, a man from the Companions entered the mosque. Seeing this, Omar (radiyallahu anh): What time is this?' said. The man said: "O leader of the believers, I came back from the market, when I heard the call to prayer, I came immediately after making wudu." However, you knew that the Messenger of Allah ordered to make ghusl for Friday.” Buhari, Friday, 11/2; Muslim, Friday, 7/3. See also Shaybani 62 271-) Abu Said al-Khudri  (radiy-Allâhu  anh) says: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “To make ghusl on Friday is obligatory for every Muslim who reaches puberty.” Bukhari, Azan, 10/161; Muslim, Friday, 7/5. 272-) Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), son of Hadrat Umar, narrated that the Messenger of Allah said: "One of you should make a ghusl while coming to the Friday prayer." Buhari, Friday, 11/2; Muslim, Friday, 7/1. 273-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person makes a ghusl on Friday morning with the intention of making a Friday ghusl, it will not be enough. On the way to Friday, he should perform ghusl again. Because the Messenger of Allah, in the hadith that Abdullah narrated, said: "Let him make a ghusl while coming on Friday." Shaybani, 57. 274-) Imam-i  Malik (in another view) says: If a person breaks his wudu after making an early or late ghusl on Friday, it is sufficient to perform wudu alone. There is no need to renew that ghusl. Shaybani, 57. 
275-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) says: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “While the imam was delivering a sermon on Friday, he said to his friend (speaking); "shush!" Even if you say so, you will be making a lagv (idle talk)," he said. Bukhari, Friday, 11/36; Muslim, Friday, 7/12. See also Seybani 230 276-) Salebe 
b. Abi Malik al-Kurazi  narrates: During the caliphate of Hazrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh), we were performing the (sunnah) prayer until Umar delivered the sermon on Friday. Omar was sitting on the pulpit and we were sitting and talking when the muezzins started the call to prayer. When the muezzins fell silent and Ömer tried to deliver the sermon, we were silent, none of us was speaking. Shihab says: When the imam goes to the sermon, the prayer is not performed. Shaybani, 227. 
277-) Malik b. Abi Amir narrates: Osman b. Affan used to say many times in his sermon: “When the imam starts the sermon on Friday, keep quiet and listen to the sermon. Even if no one listens to Susan, she gets as much reward as the one who listens. When the prayer is performed, straighten the rows and let your shoulders line up. For, keeping the rows straight is part of the entire prayer.” Osman would not take a takbir until the people he had assigned to correct the ranks came and reported that the ranks were corrected. Shaybani, 229. 278-) Nafi says: On Friday, two men were talking while the imam was delivering the sermon. Abdullah b. When Umar saw these, he warned them to keep quiet by throwing pebbles. 279-) It reached Imam-i  Malik: A man sneezes while the imam is delivering the sermon on Friday. The occupant next to him says "Yerhamukallah", and Said b. He asks al-Museyyeb.  Said says it is not permissible while the sermon is being delivered and says: "Don't do it again." says. 280-) Imam-i  Malik asked Ibn Shihab, "Is it permissible to talk on Friday after descending from the pulpit and before starting the prayer?" she asked; Ibn Shihab also said; "No harm," he said. 281-) Ibn Shihab says: "A person who catches up with one rak'ah of the Friday prayer also performs one rak'ah for himself. It is sunnah to do so.” (That is how his Messenger Ekrem ordered.) 282-) Imam-i  Malik says: "I saw this before the scholars in our country (in Madinah). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever catches up with one rak'ah of the prayer, he has reached the prayer." Buhari, Mevakit, 9/29; Muslim, Masâcid, 5/161. Whoever catches up with one rak'ah of it has reached the prayer." Abu Huraira reported this hadith from the Messenger of Allah. he commanded.” 283-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person who is standing in a cramped place on Friday bows and cannot prostrate until the Imam gets up from prostration, he prostrates after the congregation gets up. If the imam cannot prostrate until he has finished the prayer, he starts the prayer again and performs four rak'ahs as the fard of the noon prayer. 284-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person whose nose bleeds while the imam is delivering the sermon on Friday leaves the mosque and returns after the imam has led the Friday, he performs four rak'ahs (as the noon prayer). 285-) Imam-i  Malik said: If a person who performs one rak'ah with the imam on Friday and then leaves the mosque with a bleeding nose, comes back and sees that the imam has performed both rak'ahs, he will only perform the second rak'ah if he has not spoken. 286-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person whose nose bleeds on Friday or who has to leave the mosque for any reason does not need to get permission from the imam if he wants to go out. 287-) Imam-i  Malik said to Ibn Shihab: "O believers! When called to prayer on Friday, hasten to the remembrance of Allah (Friday prayer)" He asked about verse 9 of the chapter of Friday. In Shihab; Umar b. the verse of al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh); He replied, "Go to the remembrance of Allah 
(prayer)" when he was called to prayer on Friday. 288-) Imam-i  Malik says: The word say in the Qur'an means mal and deed. It is 
in these verses 
like: he runs (works) to cause mischief in the land..." Surah Al-Baqara:  205. The one who runs out of fear of the punishment of his Lord..." Surah 
Ababa: 8-9. He ran back.” Nâziat Sûra: Your 22 hours (your deeds and works) are worthless.» 
Surah Leyl: 4. Malik said: The word sa'y commanded by Allahu ta'ala in his book is neither to run with one's feet nor to walk quickly. The 
meaning of this word is only deed and '. 289-) Imam-i  Malik says: The imam who is on an expedition, What is meant by the imam here is the 
head of state. If he stays in a village or town where the Friday prayer is supposed to be performed, reads the khutbah and leads them the 
Friday prayer, the people of that town and others will have performed the Friday together with him. 

290-) Malik says: If the imam, who is on an expedition, stops by a town where the Friday prayers are not obligatory and leads the people 
of the town, the Friday prayers of the imam, the people of the town and those who pray with them will not be valid. 
Let the people of the town and others pray behind the imam who does not travel. 
291-) Malik says: Friday prayer is not obligatory for those who are on an expedition. 
292-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) explained the virtues of Friday and said: “There is a time on 
Friday when a Muslim prays and if he asks something from Allah, Allah will definitely do it. gives him what he wants.” His Messenger, Ekrem, 
pointed with his hand that that time was a short time. Buhari, Friday, 11/37; Muslim, Friday, 7/13. 

293-) Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) narrates: I went to Tur-u  Sina, where I met Ka'bu'l-Ahbar. 
We sat together, he told me about the Torah. I told him the hadiths of the Messenger of Allah. One of the hadiths I told him was as 
follows: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The best of the days on which the sun rises is Friday. Adam was created that day. He was 
expelled from heaven that day. His repentance was accepted that day. He died that day, and the apocalypse will break on that day. On 
Friday, all animals listen from dawn to sunrise, out of fear of whether the apocalypse will break out. Only jinn and people are heedless of this. 
There is a time on Friday, when a Muslim prays at that time and makes a request from Allah, Allah will definitely grant his wish. Kaab: That 
virtuous time is one day in a year.» He said: No, there is such a time every Friday.' said. Thereupon, Kab read the Torah and said: The Messenger 
of Allah (pbuh) spoke the truth. Abu Huraira continues and says: After leaving there, Basra b. I ran into Ebi Basra al Giffari. Me: Where are you 
from?' said. I said: "From Tur". Hearing this: if I ran into you before I went, you wouldn't have gone. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa 
sallam) said: "No excursions are made to any place other than three mosques: Masjid Harama, this mosque and Iyliya (Jerusalem) mosque or 
Baytil Makdise." Hüreyre says: Later, Abdullah b. I met Selam (radiy-Allâhu  anh), when I told him that I had met with Kâbul Ahbar and that it was 
a virtuous time on Friday; I told him, "Then it will happen one day of the year." Abdullah b. Salam (radiyallahu anh) said, "K'ab lied." I said: After 
reading the Torah, he said: "Yes, there is that good time every Friday." Abdullah b. Hi: he said it right," and after saying: I know which time it is.' 
said. To him: Tell me what time it is, do not hide it from me.' When Abdullah b. Salam: (radiyallahu anh): He said, "It is the last time of Friday." Me 
too: How can it be the last time of Friday?” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If a Muslim is present at that time while 
performing prayers..." "The prayer is not performed at the time you say." said. Thereupon, Abdullah b. Salam (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of 
Allah said: Didn't he say: A person who sits and waits for the prayer is considered to be in prayer until he performs the prayer?' said. I said yes, 
too. That is how he is.” said. Abu Davud, Salat, 2/200; Tirmidhi, Friday, 4/2; Nesai, Friday, 14/45. During the day, the time when prayers are 
accepted is called "saatu'l-icabe".  According to the strongest view, it covers the period from the imam's ascent to the pulpit until the prayer is 
performed. 

294-) Malik says; Yahya b. Said: I heard the following hadith of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "What would happen if you took two clothes, one for Fridays and the other for other days (for work)?" 295-) Imam-i  Malik narrates from Nafi: Abdullah b. If Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) did not wear his ihram dress, he would not go to the Friday prayer until he was dressed cleanly, smelling it. Ebu Davud (Salat, 2/212), Abdullah b. He narrated it as originating from Salam. See also Ibn Mace, Ebvabu ÿkâmeti's-Salat,  5/83; Shaybani 224. 
296-) Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) says: It is better for you to perform the prayer in Zahru'l-Harre  (outside Madinah) than to go to the mosque after the imam has delivered the sermon after being late for the Friday prayer and try to get to the front lines by pressing people's shoulders. It is not right to go to the front lines by disturbing the congregation. Also, fomiiio orlran nalanlnr to Hrÿ coflnrrln t-mcliilr  KÿraVmanfln ÿ/Pr  t ÿÿ ftn alÿHÿr-1 O r. 297-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, what is sunnah is for the congregation to turn to the imam while the imam reads the Friday sermon. 
298-) Utbe b. Mes'ud's grandson Ubeydullah, Dahhak b. Kays, Numan b. He asked Bashir (radiyallahu anh) which surah the Messenger of Allah recited after finishing the Friday Surah. He said: He used to recite the surah "Hal etâke hadithul gashiyeh". Muslim, Friday, 7/63. See also ÿeybanî, 226 299-) Imam-i  Malik, Safvan b. It is narrated from Sulaym, "Allah seals the heart of the person who leaves the Friday prayer three times without an excuse." Saying that God seals your heart; withholds his favors, no to his heart things do not enter, his heart darkens and hardens. He said about the hadith: "I don't know if he narrated it from the Messenger of Allah or if it was his own opinion." Ibn Abdilber says: "This hadith is musnad in various ways; but the best one is the hadith of Ebu'l-Ja'd  ad-Damrî. David, Salat, 2/203; Tirmidhi, Friday, 4/7; Nesai, Friday, 14/2; Ibn Mace, Ebvâbu Ikameti's-Salat,  5/93 300-) Cafer b. Narrated by Muhammad's father, Muhammad, says: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) 
He delivered two sermons on Friday and sat between the two. Ibn Abdilber says: Muwatta narrators also narrated it in this way as 
mursal. (Friday, 11/27, 30) It is narrated from Ibn Omar as a descendant. See also Muslim, Friday, 7/33. 

301-) Hadrat Aisha (radiyallahu anh) narrated: One night, the Messenger of Allah performed the tarawih prayer. The congregation 
also performed it with it, and it did it again on the second night, and the congregation increased that night. Later, on the third "or fourth" 
night, the congregation gathered, but the Messenger of Allah (to lead the tarawih) did not go. In the morning; "I saw the gathering at night, 
but I did not go out and lead you because I was afraid that the tarawih prayer would be obligatory on you." he commanded. This incident 
happened in Ramadan. Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/178. See also Shaybani, 238. 
302-) From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) encouraged tarawih prayers in 
Ramadan without giving any definite orders: "Whoever revives Ramadan with faith and thinking of Allah's pleasure, his past sins will be 
forgiven." Reviving Ramadan; It can be done by praying and doing good deeds such as praying the tarawih prayer, reading the Qur'an, 
taking care of the poor. he commanded. Shihab says: The tarawih prayer was not performed in congregation until the death of the Messenger 
of Allah. (Everyone did it for himself.) This continued in the caliphate of Hazrat Abu Bakr and in the early days of Hazrat Umar's caliphate. 
Bukhari, Salatu't-Tarawih,  31/1; Muslim, Salatu'l Musafirin, 6/174. 

303-) Abdurrahman b. Abdulkari tells: We went to the mosque with Hazrat Umar in Ramadan. The congregation was in a disorganized 
state, some of them alone, some of them as imams for the congregation of several people. Seeing this situation, Umar (radiyallahu anh) 
said, "By Allah, it would be better if I gathered them behind an imam." Ubay b. He ordered them to make Ka'b the imam and pray in 
congregation. Later, another night, I went to the mosque with him, they were performing the tarawih in congregation. Upon this, Umar (radiy-
Allâhu anh) said, “What a beautiful innovation. It is better for you to fall asleep and miss tahajjud in the morning than to stay up late in the 
evening and miss the morning prayer,” he said. Bukhari, Salatu't-Tarawih,  31/1, See also. ÿeybanî, 241 304-) Saib b. From Yazid: Hazrat 
Umar (radiyallahu anh), Ubay b. He ordered K'âb and Temimu'd-Dari  (in the nights of Ramadan) to lead the congregation in eleven rak'ahs 
of prayer as imams, the imam recited from the suras with more than one hundred verses in the prayer, we even did not have to stand for a 
long time, we leaned on walking sticks. 

We returned from prayer only when the dawn approached. Of the 11 rakat prayers in this hadith, 8 are tarawih prayers and 3 are witr prayers. 
In the following hadith, 20 of the 23 rakats are tarawih prayers and 3 are witr prayers. When these hadiths and other hadiths are considered 
together, it is concluded that the Companions of the Companions often performed the tarawih prayer 20 rak'ahs and sometimes 8 rak'ahs. 

305-) Yazid b. Rûmân narrates: During the caliphate of Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh), Muslims were performing 23 rakats of tarawih 
prayer in Ramadan. 
306-) A'raj relates: In Ramadan, Muslims (in Kunut prayers) cursed disbelievers. Imam was reciting Surah al-Baqara  in 8 rakats of tarawih 
prayer. When they recited this surah in the remaining 12 rak'ahs, the congregation thought: "The Imam recited little." 

307-) Abdullah b. From Abu Bakr: My father used to say, "When we come back from the tarawih prayer in Ramadan, we used to tell the 
servants to prepare the sahur meal quickly for fear of dawn." 
308-) From Urve: Zekvan, the freed man of Hadrat Aisha, used to recite the Qur'an to him in Ramadan. That is, to our mother Aisha. 

He was praying taraweeh. 
309-) Said b. Jubayr relates the following hadith from a man he trusted, who was the wife of Rasul Ekrem, Hadrat Aisha: The Messenger of 
Allah (pbuh) said: "If a person who makes it a habit to pray at night falls asleep, but cannot get up for the Tahajjud prayer, Allah will give 
him Tahajjud writes his reward, and his sleeping is considered charity.” Abu Dawud, Tatawwu, 5/20; Nesai, Kÿyâmu'l-Leyl,  20/61. See also 
Shaybani, 167th prayer; It is a prayer that you wake up at night and pray. It is more virtuous than other supererogatory prayers. Our Prophet 
(sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed the tahajjud prayer as eight rak'ahs at most and two rak'ahs at least. 310-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) 
narrates: When the Messenger of Allah performed the tahajjud prayer at night, I was lying in front of him, my feet would lie on the prostration 
place. While prostrating, he would touch me with his hand and take my foot away, and when I got up from prostration, I would stretch it. At 
that time, oil lamps were not lit in houses. Bukhari, Salat, 8/22; Muslim, Salat, 4/272. 

311-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha), the wife of the Messenger of Allah, narrates; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever falls asleep in prayer, let him sleep and then perform his prayer. For, those who doze and pray, perhaps unwittingly, curse themselves instead of asking for forgiveness.” That is, he curses unconsciously while praying. Bukhari, Wudu, 4/53; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin, 6/222. 
312-) ÿsmail b. It was reported to Abi Hakim: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) heard a woman praying at night, who is it?' said. 
To him: his daughter is Havla. He does not sleep at night,” they said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not like 
him to pray all night. He was even read because he was angry. Afterwards, he said: "Unless you get tired of worship and leave, Allah 
will not cut your reward and reward. Act in such a way that you can continue without tiring yourself.” Ibn Abdilber says: This is ismail's 
narration, it is munkat. (Iman, 2/32) is narrated from Hadrat Aisha. See also Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/220. 

313-) From Eslem: Ömer b. Al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh) would pray at night as much as he wanted, before morning he would 
invite the people of the household to pray by saying: "Get up to pray, get up for prayer," and then recite the following verse: "Order 
your household to pray, and you will continue to pray. meat. We do not want sustenance from you. We provide for you. Happy 
ending is for those who have taqwa.” Surah Taha 132. 
314-) Said b. al-Museyyeb:  "It is makruh to sleep before performing the night prayer and to talk after the night prayer." For, a 
person who sleeps without performing the night prayer may not wake up, and the night prayer will be missed. Even when he is 
engaged in conversation after the night prayer, he cannot get up for the tahajjud prayer at night. he would say. Buhari, Mevakît, 
9/3; Muslim, Masâcid, 5/236. 
315-) Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) says: Night and day (Nafil) prayers are in pairs. A salutation is given in every two 
rak'ahs. Malik says: It is the same for us. (That is, in sunnah and supererogatory prayers, salutations are given once in two rak'ats.) 

316-) From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha), the wife of the Messenger of Allah: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray eleven 
rakats at night, and he would do one of them alone. When he finished the prayer, he would lie on his right side. Muslim salatul 
musafirin 6/121. see also shaybani 165 317-) Abdurrahman b. From Abu Salama, son of Awf: To Aisha, the wife of the Messenger 
of Allah: How was the prayer of the Messenger of Allah in Ramadan?' I asked him, He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would 
not pray more than eleven rak'ahs, neither in Ramadan nor at any other time (in the night prayer). 

Then pray four rak'ahs and do not ask about its beauty or length. Then he would perform three rak'ahs (witr prayer)." he replied. 
(radiyallahu anh) said to the Prophet: O Messenger of Allah, are you sleeping without performing a witr? said. O Aisha (radiyallahu 
anh), my eyes sleep, but my heart does not sleep.» He said, Bukhari, Salatu't-Tarawih,  31/1; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/125. 
When the spiritual vitality of the heart is strengthened, the body stays awake when it sleeps. This is typical of the prophets. 

318-) From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha), the mother of the believers: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray thirteen rakats at night. 
Later, when he heard the adhan for the morning prayer, he would recite it briefly and perform two rak'ahs (the sunnah of the morning 
prayer). Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/123. Ten of the 13 rak'ahs are tahajjud and three of them are witr. 
The Messenger of Ekrem prayed the Tahajjud prayer mostly eight rak'ats, sometimes ten rak'ats. 
319-) Abdullah b. Abbas (radiyallahu anh) narrates: One night, I stayed with my aunt, Meymune, the wife of the Messenger of Allah, 
and slept with my head on the side of the Messenger of Allah's pillow. The Prophet slept. At midnight or a little before or a little later, 
he woke up and sat down. After wiping his eyes with his hand, he recited the last ten verses of Surah Ali Imran. Then he got up and 
made ablution with the water on the hanging whip. Kÿrba: A water bowl made of fine leather or leather, used by the beards 
(previously), a beard suit. He had such a beautiful ablution! Then he performed the (tahajjud) prayer. Abbas says: I got up too, I did 
as he did. Then I went and stood next to him. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) placed his right hand on my head 
and rubbed my right ear. He prayed two rak'ahs. Then he prayed two rak'ahs, then two rak'ahs, then two rak'ahs, then two rak'ahs, 
then two rak'ahs again. Then he prayed one rak'ah and went to bed. When the muezzin came, he stood up, recited a short prayer, 
and after two rak'ahs (the sunnah of the morning prayer), he went out and led the morning prayer. Bukhari, Wudu, 4/36; Muslim, 
Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/182. 
320-) Zayd b. Khalid al-Juheni  narrates: I went one night with the intention of observing the (tahajjud) prayer of the 
Messenger of Allah (pbuh). I stood on the threshold of his door. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) got up 
(midnight) and prayed two rak'ahs, reciting for a long time. Then he prayed two rak'ahs slightly shorter than them, then he recited 
a little less and prayed two rak'ahs, then he recited a little less and prayed two rak'ahs, then he recited a little less and prayed two 
rak'ahs, then he recited a little less and prayed two rak'ahs, then one rak'ah. . The whole is thirteen rak'ahs. Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  
6/195. See also Shaybani, 166. Prophet; As it can be understood from these hadiths, while performing the Witr prayer, he would greet 
in two rak'ats and would perform a single rak'ah. Imam-i  Malik and Imam Shafii acted according to these hadiths. Sometimes he would 
perform the three rakat witr prayer with a greeting. Abu Hanifa also acted accordingly. 

321-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked a man about the night prayer: "The night 
prayer is performed in pairs. When you are afraid of the dawn, you perform the witr as one rak'ah." Buhari, Vitr, 14/1; Muslim, 
Salatul-Musafirin,  6/145, See also. Shaybani, 164. 322-) Ibn Muhayriz narrates: A man named Muhdeci, one of the sons of 

Kinane, was known in Damascus with his name Abu Muhammad, "The witr prayer is obligatory." he heard you say. Muhdecî 

says: Thereupon, Ubade b. spouse­
I went to Samit. I met him on my way to the mosque. I told him what Abu Muhammad said (witr prayer is obligatory). 
Ubade: Abu Muhammad lied. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: “Allah has made five daily prayers 
obligatory upon His servants. Whoever does these things, Allah has no command that he will enter Paradise. If he wishes, he 
can punish him, if he wishes, he can enter Paradise.” to pray; does not relieve the person from other responsibilities and duties. 
He said, "It is not right to just pray and continue doing other sins and evil deeds." Abu Dawud, Vitr, 8/20; Nasai, Salat, 5/6; Ibn 
Mace, Residence, 5/194. 
323-) Said b. Yesar narrates: On the way to Mecca, Abdullah b. I was going with Ömer. When the dawn approached, I got 
down and performed the witr prayer. When I reached Abdullah, he asked me: Where were you?' said. I said: I was afraid 
of the dawn, I went down and performed the witr prayer. said. Thereupon, Abdullah said: Do you not want to follow the 
Messenger of Allah? said. I said: "Yes, I swear I would like to comply." Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform 
the witr prayer on a camel." said. Bukhari, Vitr, 14/5; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/36. 
324-) Said b. It was reported from al-Museyyeb:  Abu Bakr as-Siddik  used to perform the witr prayer when he was going to bed. 
Umar b. Al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh) would perform the witr prayer at the end of the night (dawn time). b. al-Museyyeb  says: 
When I go to bed, I make a vitri. 325-) The following hadith was reported to Imam-i  Malik: A man, Abdullah b. Is the Witr prayer 
obligatory for Umar?" ' Abdullah replied, 'Surely, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the Muslims performed the witr prayer. asked 
the same question over and over again, Abdullah b. Umar replied to every question, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the 
Muslims made a widow." 

326-) Hadrat Aisha (radiyallahu anha) used to say: Whoever is afraid of not being able to wake up before the dawn (at the time of 
tahajjud prayer), should perform the witr prayer before going to bed. Whoever can wake up should delay the witr prayer (at dawn). 

327-) Nafi' says: In Mecca, Abdullah b. I was with Omar (radiyallahu anh). It was cloudy. Abdullah prayed one rak'ah of witr, 
fearing that the dawn would break. After the weather cleared, when he saw that it was early, he performed one more rak'ah 
and doubled the one rak'ah he performed, then four more rak'ahs in twos. When dawn approaches, immediately perform one 
rak'ah of witr. Shaybani, 251. 
328-) Nafi' says: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) would greet in two rak'ats in the witr prayer. There is disagreement 
among the madhhabs regarding the Shaybani, 258th prayer. Wajib or circumcision. The way it is performed, the witr prayer is 
obligatory in its madhhab. Three rak'ahs are performed with one greeting. It is performed after the night prayer. A person who 
stands up for the Tahajjud prayer delays the witr prayer and performs it after tahajjud. In Maliki and Hanbali madhhabs, the 
sunnah of witr prayer is muakkada, that is, it is the strongest sunnah. In two rak'ats, one salutation is given, and one rak'ah is 
performed as one. In all three madhhabs, it is permissible to perform three rak'ahs with one greeting. The best time for witr prayer 
in all madhhabs is before dawn after tahajjud prayer. The Prophet used to do this all the time, and in one of his hadiths he says: 
"Perform the witr prayer at the end of your night prayers." Those who cannot stand tahajjud perform the witr after Isha or before 
going to bed. 329-) Ibn Shihab says: Sa'd b. Abi Waqqas (radiyallahu anh) would perform one rak'ah of witr after Isha. There is 
no one-rakat  prayer. He may have performed two rak'ahs of the witr after Isha, and then one rak'ah. Malik says: It is not like that 
for us. However, the minimum of the witr prayer is three rak'ahs. 

330-) Abdullah b. It was reported from Dinar: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) used to say that the evening prayer is the 
showcase of the daytime prayers. 331-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person performs the witr prayer before the night, wakes up 
after sleeping, and wants to perform the tahajjud prayer, let him perform the tahajjud in twos. This is the best I've heard. ÿeybani 
249 332-) Said b. Jubayr narrates: Abdullah b. Abbas awoke from his slumber, to his servant: Look what people have done.» 
said. (At that time, Abdullah's eyes were wide open.) After the servant went and returned, he said: "People dispersed after the 
morning prayer," Abdullah b. Abbas performed the morning prayer after performing the witr prayer. Shaybani, 256 333-) Imam-i  
Malik says: Abdullah b. Abbas, Ubade b. es-Samit,  al-Kasim  b. Muhammad and Abdullah b. amir b. It was narrated that Rabia 
performed the witr prayers after dawn. Shaybani, 253, 254. 

334-) Abdullah b. Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh) says: I can perform witr prayer while performing the morning prayer. 
ÿeybanî, 255 335-) Yahya b. Said narrates: Ubade b. es-Samit  (radiyallahu anh) was an imam. One day, he went to 
the morning prayer, and while the muezzin was sitting, Ubade silenced him. After performing the witr prayer, he led the 
morning prayer. Shaybani, 257. 

336-) Abdurrahman b. al-Kasim  says: Abdullah b. amir b. I heard Rebia (radiy-Allâhu  anh): “While I was hearing the morning 
prayer, I would perform the witr prayer after the dawn.” (Abdurrahman, Abdullah b. 
He doubts whether the chief said: during the qamah or after dawn.) 
337-) Kasÿm b. Muhammad says: I perform the witr prayer after dawn. He says: Only a person who falls asleep without 
performing the witr can perform the witr prayer after dawn. Otherwise, you will deliberately perform the witr prayer after dawn. 

It is illegal to leave. 
338-) Hafsa (radiy-Allâhu  anh), the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), narrates: When the muezzin recited the morning prayer adhan, 
he would recite it briefly and perform two rak'ahs of sunnah. 
Bukhari, Azan, 10/12; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/87. See also Shaybani, 244. 
339-) Hadrat Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha) says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to make the sunnah of the morning prayer so 
light that I wondered whether he recited the Fatiha or not. Ibn Abdilber says: Those who narrate from Malik are undisputed regarding 
the mursalism of this hadith 340-) Abu Salama b. Abdurrahman says: Some of the congregation, who heard the kaamat in the morning 
prayer, tried to perform circumcision, at that time the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came out. When he sees these, he asks: Are two prayers 
performed at once, or two prayers at once? The Prophet (pbuh) refers to the fard and sunnah of the morning prayer as two prayers. 
From this hadith, it is understood that when obligatory obligatory is performed, the whole congregation must stop before performing sunnah 
or supererogatory prayers in the mosque. he commanded. This was in the two rak'ah morning prayer before the morning. 

341-) Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) could not perform the sunnah of the morning prayer (one day), he made it up after the sun came 
up. Since he does not perform circumcision after the fard of the morning prayer in the Hanafi school, a person who thinks that he will be 
able to reach the congregation when the fard is fulfilled quickly performs the sunnah and the fard is enough. 
342-) Kasÿm b. Muhammad, Abdullah b. He performed the sunnah of the morning prayer, which he could not perform before the 
obligatory prayer, as Umar did, after the sun came up. 
343-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "The prayer performed in 
congregation is twenty-seven  degrees higher than that performed alone." he commanded. Bukhari, Adhan, 10/30; Muslim, Masâcid, 
5/249. 
344-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Prayer in congregation is twenty-five  degrees higher 
than the prayer you pray alone." , Adhan, 10/31; Muslim, 5/245. 
345-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I swear by Allah, by whose power and will I live. I feel so 
bad that I will collect wood, order the adhan to be called for prayer and someone to be the imam of the congregation, then I will burn the 
houses of those who do not come to the congregation. 
I swear by God, by whose power and will I live, that you go to the night prayer is more important than going to eat fatty meat.» 
Bukhari, Adhan, 10/29; Muslim, Mesâcid, 5/246 346-) Zayd b. Thabit (radiyallahu anh) says: "Except for the obligatory prayers, 
your best prayer is the one you pray at home." Bukhari, Adhan, 10/81 (as merfu); Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/213. From this, it is 
understood that it is awla to perform the obligatory prayers in the mosque, and to perform the sunnah and supererogatory prayers at 
home. His Messenger Ekrem used to do the same. 

347-) Said b. From al-Museyyeb:  Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam); “The difference between us and the hypocrites is that we 
attend night prayers and morning prayers. They cannot come to these two times,” he said, or something like that. There is the following 
statement in et-Tawhid:  This hadith is mursal in Muwatta. It did not come from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam). Meaning, 
Context has come through ways. They would have drawn lots if they had no other choice. If they knew the virtue of coming to prayer early, 
they would come racing. 
348-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A man was walking on the road and saw a thorny branch and threw it. 
Allah was pleased with his deed and forgave his sins.” "Five of the dead are martyrs: those who die of plague, those who die of stomachache, 
those who drown in water, those who are destroyed, and those who are martyred for the religion of Allah (Islam)." "If people know the 
importance and reward of the adhan and the first row, if they know the importance of the night prayer and morning prayer in congregation to 
call the adhan and be in the first row, they will come even if they crawl." Bukhari, Adhan, 10/32; Muslim, Salat, 4/129, Imaret, 33A64. 

349-) Süleyman b. Abu Bakr, son of Ebi Hasme, narrates: Omar b. al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh), Süleyman b. 
He could not see Ebi Hasme during the morning prayer. Suleiman's house was between the bazaar and the Prophet's Mosque. While 
Hazrat Omar was going to the bazaar, he came across Süleyman's mother, co-ÿifa  Hatun. When she said to him: I could not see Solomon 
during the morning prayer, the woman said: He prayed at night, he fell asleep for him, he could not go to the morning prayer. 
Upon this, Hadrat Umar said: “It is better for me to go to the congregation for the morning prayer than to pray at night.” 

said. 

350-) Abdurrahman b. Abi Amre al-Ansari  narrates: Osman b. Affan (radiyallahu anh) came to the night prayer. 
Seeing the congregation scarce, he lay behind the mosque and waited for the congregation to increase. At that time, Ibn Abi Amra came 
and sat next to Hazrat Uthman. Osman (radiyallahu anh) asked who he was. He also introduced himself. 
"How much do you know about the Qur'an?" said. After answering this, Hazrat Uthman said to him: “Whoever comes to the 
congregation for the night prayer, spends half of the night in prayer. Whoever comes to the congregation for the morning prayer will have 
spent the whole night in prayer," he said. It is authentic as merfu. Muslim, Masâcid, 5/260. 
351-) Mihcen (radiyallahu anh) narrates: I was in the assembly of the Messenger of Allah. Prayer was done. His Messenger, Ekrem, got up 
and came to me after performing the prayer. I didn't get to pray with him. He asked me: Why didn't you pray in congregation, aren't you a 
Muslim?' He said: Yes, O Messenger of Allah, I am a Muslim. But I pray at home 

I did,” I said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah said, "Even if you have performed the prayer, perform it again when you come to the congregation." A person who performs the time prayer for himself can also perform it in congregation when he comes to the congregation. One of the prayers he performs is considered as the time prayer and the other is considered nafilah. However, if the prayer he performs is evening, morning or afternoon prayer, he cannot repeat it in congregation. Because the evening prayer is one-rakat,  it is not considered supererogatory. After the morning and afternoon prayers, it is not nafilah. he commanded. Nesai, Imamate, 10/53. See also Shaybani, 217. 352-) From Nafi: A man Abdullah b. To Omar (radiyallahu anh): After performing the prayer at home, I catch up with the congregation. Shall I perform it again with the congregation?” said. Abdullah b. Omer: Yes.” When the man said: Which one should I count the daily prayer and which one should I count the supererogatory prayer? Ibn Omar said: Does it belong to you? It belongs only to Allah. He can count whichever he wills.” said. 353-) Yahya b. Said narrates: A man Said b. al-Museyyebie:  After I pray at home, I go to the mosque, I find the imam in prayer. Shall I do it again with him?” she asked. Said: When the man said, "Which one will be my daily prayer?" said. Said: will you appoint? It belongs only to Allah.” said. 354-) Imam-i  Malik narrates from Afif al-Sahmi:  A man from the sons of Assad said to Abu Ayyub al-Ansari  (radiy-Allâhu  anh): After I pray at home, I go to the mosque, I find the imam in prayer. Shall I do it with him too?" she asked. Abu Ayyub said: Do it with him too. Whoever does this will receive the reward of the congregational prayer.” said. 
355-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) said, "A person who catches up with the imam after performing the evening prayer or morning prayer should not repeat them." 356-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person who prays at home can also pray with the imam again. But he cannot make the evening. For, when he performs the evening prayer again, he has performed the fard twice. 
357-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you leads the congregation, he should not prolong the prayer. Because there may be weak, sick, and old people in the congregation. Let him who makes it for himself extend it as long as he wills.” Bukhari, Adhan, 10/62; Muslim, Salat, 4/183. See also Shaybani, 248. 
358-) Nafi narrates: In a prayer, Abdullah b. I stood behind Omer. There was no one else beside me. He gestured with his hand and pulled me towards him. If there is only one congregation following the imam, it should stand on the right side of the imam, not behind him. 359-) Yahya b. Said narrates: A man is a place name in Aqiq (Aqiq), Medinai Münevvere. Imamate was burning for the congregation. Umar b. Abdulaziz broke the news and banned him from being an imam. Malik says: Because the man's father was not known, he banned him from being an imam. 
360-) Enes b. Malik (radiyallahu anh) narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) fell while riding a horse, and his right side was hurt. He led the prayer sitting (when the time for prayer came), and we prayed sitting behind him. When he finished the prayer, he said, “The imam has been appointed to be followed. Therefore, if the imam makes him stand, then stand him. Bow when you bow. When he lifts his head, you lift him too. When you say 'semiailahu limen hamideh', you say 'rabbena and lekl hamd'. When he prays sitting, all of you pray sitting down.” he commanded. Bukhari, Adhan, 10/51; Muslim, Salat, 4/77; Shafii, Risale, no: 696. See also. Shaybani, 157 361-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha), the wife of the Messenger of Allah, narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was disturbed, so he prayed sitting down. The congregation behind him stood up. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah signaled to them to sit down. When he finished the prayer, he said: “The imam has been appointed to be followed. When the imam reaches ruku', do ruku'. When he lifts his head, you lift him too. When he prays sitting, pray sitting too.” he commanded. 
Bukhari, Adhan, 10/51; Muslim, Salat, 4/82; Shafii, Risale, no: 697. 362-) Urve narrates: When the Messenger of Allah became ill, he came to the mosque.” Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu  anh) was standing and leading the congregation in prayer. Realizing that his Messenger, Ekrem, was coming, Abu Bakr wanted to retreat. Thereupon, Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) signaled, “Stay where you are,” and sat next to Abu Bakr. Abu Bakr was praying in accordance with the Messenger of Allah, who was doing it while sitting, and the congregation followed Abu Bakr. Bukhari, Adhan, 10/47; Muslim, 4/97. 363-) Abdullah b. Amr b. From al-As  (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The prayer you pray sitting down (in reward and reward) is half the prayer you offer standing." he commanded. Muslim, Salatu'l Musafirin, 6/120; Nesai, Kÿyamu'l-Leyl,  20/20; Ibn Mace, tkametu's-Salat,  5/141. See also Shaybani, 155. 364-) Abdullah b. Amr b. From al-As  (radiyallahu anh): When we arrived in Madinah, we fell ill with the plague. The Messenger of Allah went to the congregation, and when he saw that they were praying while sitting, he said: "Prayer performed sitting down is like half of the prayer performed standing." he commanded. Abdilber says: This hadith is munkat. Because Zuhri did not meet with Ibn Amr. 365-) From Hafsa, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), I did not see the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) praying while sitting down until a year before his death. In his last days, he was performing the Nafil prayer sitting down and reciting the surah slowly. Long chapters were getting longer from his slow reading. 
Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/118. See also Shaybani, 154 
366-) From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh): I have never seen the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) praying sitting down until he was old. When he got old, he would recite the recitation sitting down, when he wanted to bow, he would stand up, and after reciting thirty or forty verses, he would bow. Bukhari, Taksîru's-salat,  18/20: Muslim Salatu'l-Musafirîn,  16/111 367-) From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prays while sitting, reads while sitting, thirty-forty  verses from his recitation When he had remained as long as he had left, he would stand up and recite, then bow and prostrate. Afterwards, he performed the second rak'ah as well. Bukhari, Taksîru's-Salat,  18/20; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirîn,  6/112.0 368-) The following hadith was reported to Imam-i  Malik: Urve b. Zubayr and Said b. al-Museyyeb  used to perform the nafilah prayers sitting down and straightening their knees. 
369-) Abu Yunus, the freed man of Aisha, the mother of the believers, narrates: Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha) ordered me to write the mushaf (Qur'an) for her, then she said: "Let me know when it comes to the verse of Hafizu alessalevati vessalatil vustaa ve kumu lillahi kaanit". When I informed her that I had come to this verse, she made me write: "Hafizu alessalevati vessalatif vustaa 
-wa salatil asri (afternoon prayer) -ve kumu lillahi kaanitiyn" Aisha said: I heard this from the Messenger of Allah. Muslim, Masjid 5/207. 370-) Anÿr b. Rafi narrates: While writing the Hafsa Mushaf, the mother of the believers said: "Let me know when it comes to the verse Hafizuu alessalevaati vessalatil vustaa wa kumu lillahi kaanitiyn". When I informed him that I had reached this verse, he had me dictate: "Hafizuu alessalevaati vessalatil vustaa -ve salatil asri -ve kumu lillahi kaanitiyn." Malik narrated this hadith as mawkuf. According to interpretations, "es-Salatu'l-vusta"  is the afternoon prayer. 
371-) Zayd b. Thabit (radiyallahu anh) says: "Salatul vustaa" is the noon prayer. Abu Dawud (Salat, 2/5) narrates as merfu. 372-) The following hadith was reported to Imam-i  Malik: Ali b. Ebi Talib and Abdullah b. Abbas (radiyallahu anh): They used to say "Salatul vustaa" is the morning prayer. Malik says: The most appropriate thing I have heard about this issue is Hadrat Ali and Abdullah b. That's what Abbas said. 373-) Umar b. Abi Salama (radiy-Allâhu  anh) reports: I saw the Messenger of Allah in Umm 
Salama's house praying, dressed in a single garment, with both ends thrown over his shoulders. Bukhari, Salat, 8/4; Muslim, Salat, 4/278. 
374-) From Abu Huraira: Someone asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) whether it is possible to pray in a single piece of clothing. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Do you all have two clothes? he replied. Bukhari, Salat, 8/4; Muslim, Salat, 4/275. 375-) Said b. Musayyeb narrates: Abu Huraira was asked if a person could pray in a piece of clothing. And he replied: He can do it!» said. Thereupon he said to him: "Do you do it?" he was asked. Yes, I pray in a single piece of clothing while my clothes are on the hanger.” he replied. 376-) Imam-i  Malik narrates: According to what I heard, Jabir b. Abdullah praying with a one-piece  dress 
would do. 
377-) Kebia b. Abi Abdurrahman narrates: Hazm's grandson Muhammad b. Amr used to pray in a one-piece  dress. 
378-) Jabir b. Abdullah narrates: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever does not have a two-piece  garment, should hold on to a single garment and pray. If the dress is short, wear it below the waist.” Muslim, Zuhd, 53/74. 379-) From Imam-i  Malik: I think the best thing for a person who prays with a single shirt to do is to cover his shoulders with a piece of cloth or wrap a turban on his head. The dress in similar hadiths consisted of a piece of cloth. Just like the pilgrims wear ihram, they would wrap a piece of cloth from the waist down, this is called an izar (skirt), and they would cover the upper part of the body with a piece of it. It was also called "rida". To pray with a dress means to pray by covering the parts of the body that need to be covered with a piece of fabric that will cover the whole large and wide body. It would also be a stitched dress. This was called kamis (entari), burde or rida, or aba (cardigan and caftan). 380-) Imam-i  Malik: It was narrated that Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) wore a robe and covered her head with a headscarf while praying. 
381-) Kunfüz's grandson Muhammed b. Zayd relates from his mother: I asked Umm Salama, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), "Which clothes women will wear while praying". They wear a headscarf on their heads, and they wear a robe that extends over their feet.” Ibn Abdilber says in al-Istizkar:  This hadith is contained in Muwatta. Abdirrahman 
b. Abdullah b. Dinar, Muhammed b. Zayd -his mother -is transferred as a merfu with Umm Salama deed. David (Salat, 2/83) 
narrates as merfu. 
See also ÿeybanî, 163, 382-) 
Ubeydullah b. From Aswad al-Havlani:  I was in the room of Maymune, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). While 
praying, she wore a robe that reached her feet and covered her head. 

would not wear. 
383-) Hisham b. Urve relates from his father: One of the women told me: It is difficult for me to wear a skirt. Can I pray with a gown and a headscarf?” she asked, and I said: Yes, if the dress is long, you can make it!» said. 
384-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) combined noon and afternoon in the Tabuk expedition. Ibn Abdilber says in et-Takassi:  "In the deed of this hadith, Yahya ibn Yahya was objected to. It was narrated from him as mursal. It is also reported as musnad in the A'rec-Abu  Hurayra deed. combining lunch and afternoon) is done. That is, the noon prayer is delayed and performed with the afternoon prayer. Evaluating the hadiths on the subject, the madhhab adopted the congregation (joining) of prayers in only two cases, the first in Arafat and the second in Muzdalifah. Other sects accept to perform cem during the journey as well. 
385-) Muaz b. Cebel narrates: We went on the expedition to Tabuk with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to gather noon and afternoon, and night and night. One day he postponed the prayer. Thereupon, after performing the noon and afternoon together, he entered his tent. Then he went out and prayed the evening and night, and then said: Tomorrow, God willing, you will be at the Tabuk Spring. But don't be there before mid-morning.  Whoever gets there first should not touch the water before I come!” When we arrived at the spring, we saw that two people had been there before us. The water was muddy. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to those two people: Did you touch the water?' she asked. And they said: Yes!» they answered. Upon this answer, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got angry with them and said a little. Afterwards, those who were there took it little by little from the spring with their palms and stored it in a bowl. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) washed his face and hands with this water and poured it back into the spring. Thereupon, the water in the spring increased. After the people had completely satisfied their water needs, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: O Muadh! If you have a lifetime, you will see that these are green and vineyard gardens!” he commanded. Muslim, Fedâil, 43/10. 
386-) Abdullah b. From 'Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray the evening and night time by making a cem-i  tahir on a journey when he had to hurry. Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/42 (Zuhri-Sâlim-  through his father); Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/44, Bukhari, Taksîru's-Salat,  18/6. See also Shaybani, 201. 387-) Abdullah b. Abbas narrates: Once, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) combined noon and afternoon, and evening and nightfall, even though there was nothing to be afraid of and he was not on a voyage. Malik says on this subject: I think that the reason why the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) gathered prayers in this way must have been due to the rainy weather. 388-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar would gather the evening and night prayers of the notables in rainy weather, and he would follow them. Shaybani, 204. 389-) Ibn Shihab narrates: Salim b. To Abdullah: Is it possible to gather the noon prayer and the afternoon prayer during the expedition? I asked: Yes, there is no harm in gatherings, don't you see it is being held in Arafat?' gave the answer. 390-) Ali b. From Husayn: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would combine the noon prayer and the afternoon prayer on the day he was going to go on an expedition, and the evening and nightfall of that night when he would go out at night. Ibn Abdilber says in et-Takassi: "This hadith is Muttasi in meaning with the hadith of Malik, Muadh ibn Jabal and Ibn Omar. According to a group of Companions, it is Musnad." 391-) Khalid b. A man from the Esîd family narrates: Abdullah b. He said to Umar, "Abu Abdurrahman: We find verses in the Qur'an about the prayer of fear (when danger from the enemy is likely) and the prayer that we will perform at the house (in his own place and at home), but we cannot find verses about how to pray while on a journey, why?" I asked. He replied: Allah, the Mighty and Majestic, sent Muhammad (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) to us when we knew nothing. That's why we do the same as we see how the Prophet did it." Ibn Abdilber says in et-Takassi:  "Malik narrates this hadith with the deed of a man from the family of Ibn Shihab Khalil b. Esid. Other narrators of Ibn Shihab are Ibn Shihab -Abdullah b. Ebî Bakr b. 
Abdirrahman-Umayye b. Abdullah b. Khalid b. They narrate it through Esid-Ibn  Omar. Nesai, Taksîru's-Salat,  15/1 (via Leys); Ibn Mace, Ikametu's-Salat,  5/73 392-) From Hadrat Aisha: At the beginning, all prayers were made obligatory as two rak'ahs, whether it was in Hazari (in her house) or on her expedition. Later, the expeditionary prayers remained as they were, but the rak'ahs of the hadar prayers were increased. 393-) Yahya b. Said narrates: Salim b. To Abdullah: When did your father pray the evening prayer, which he performed at the latest, while he was on a military expedition? I asked. Salim replied: While we were in Zat al-Jaish,  the sun went down, and my father performed the evening prayer in Aqiq.' Zat al-Jaysh  is 24 miles from Medina. A mile is 1609 meters. The distance between Zatül Ceyÿ and Aqiq is 12 miles. The length of a mile is about 4000 grits. In terms of fathoms, it is a thousand fathoms. According to the Hanafi Madhhab, in order for a person to be considered a voyage in his journey and therefore to be able to pray four rak'ahs as two rak'ahs, the destination must be approximately 90 km. 
394-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. When Umar went on pilgrimage or umrah, he shortened the prayer in Dhu'l-Hulayfa.  Shaybani, 191. 
It is called "reducing the prayer". To shorten the prayer is to perform the four-rak'ah  fards as two rak'ahs. In two and three rakat fards, 
there is no kasr, it is performed as it is 395-) Salim b. Abdullah narrates from his father: I went to Riym on a mount, and during this 
journey I shortened the prayers. Malik says the following on this narration: The way Abdullah covered with this journey is four barids 
(48 miles). ÿeybanî, 192. A mile is 1609 meters 396-) Salim b. From Abdullah: Abdullah b. Omar went to Zâtü'n-nüsub  on a mount, 
shortening the prayers during this journey. Malik said: There are four barids (48 miles) between Zatu'n-nusub  and Medina. 397-) From 
Ibn Umar: It is narrated that Ibn Umar prayed by shortening the prayers when he went to Khaybar. 

398-) Salim b. From Abdullah: Abdullah b. During his journey to Khaybar, Omar used to shorten the prayers all day. 
Seybanî, 190. 
399-) Nafi narrates: He did not shorten that prayer during a journey of a barid (12 miles) with Ibn Omar. Shaybani, 193. 400-) 
From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Abdullah b. Abbas used to shorten the prayers during his journeys as far as 
Mecca and Taif, Mecca and Usfan, and Mecca and Jeddah. The distance between Mecca and Taif is two or three, and the distance 
between Mecca and Usfan is three. Malik says about this hadith: "The distance between the places mentioned is about 4 barids (48 
miles). In my opinion, this distance is a sufficient distance to perform prayers by shortening them. The distance between Madinah 
and Medina is 69 miles. 

401-) Again, Imam-i  Malik says: A person who goes on a journey cannot pray by shortening his prayers without crossing the 
line of the last house of the town. While returning to his place of origin (his place), he cannot perform his prayer in full (four rak'ahs) until 
he comes to the first house of his town or the closest place to it.» According to Hanafi imams, a person who is not sure that he will stay 
for fifteen days on a journey or who does not intend to stay for at least 15 days performs prayers as a journey 402-) Abdullah b. From 
Ömer: If I haven't decided how long I will stay in a place during my journey, I will pray there even if I stay there for twelve nights. 
Shaybani, 194. 
403-) Nafi narrates: Ibn Omar stayed as a guest in Mecca for ten nights, while he was praying with the imam in full, except for the 
prayers he performed alone. Shaybani 196. 
404-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: If a traveler decides to stay in a place for four nights, he performs his prayers like a resident. Malik 
says on this subject: "This is the best opinion I have heard on the subject." Hanafi 
According to their sect, people who have decided to stay in a place for fifteen days or more perform their prayers in full. 405-) Imam-i  
Malik was asked how a captive person would pray: "Except in expeditionary situations, he performs it like a resident." he commanded. 
Shaybani 18 406-) Salim b. Abdullah narrates from his father: Umar b. When Khattab came to Mecca, he led the congregation to pray 
two rak'ahs, and then said to them: Meccan people! You complete the prayer, for we are the expedition.” he would say. 

407-) This narration was also transmitted by Zayd's father, Eÿlem tariq. ÿeybanî, 195 408-) Nafi 
narrates: Abdullah b. When Umar was in Mina, he used to pray four rak'ahs when he followed the imam, and two rak'ahs when he 
prayed alone. Shaybani, 199. 
409-) Safwan narrates: Abdullah b. Umar, Abdullah b. When he came to visit Safwan, he led us in prayer, when he prayed two 
rak'ahs, he finished the prayer, we got up and completed it. 
410-) Nafi narrates: Abdullah b. When Umar was on his expedition, he never prayed before or after the obligatory prayer. Except 
only at night. In addition, he used to perform his prayers on a fixed place, as well as on his mount in the direction he was going. 

Shaybani, 209. 

411-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Kasÿm b. Muhammed, Urve b. Zubayr and Abu Bakr b. 
While Abdurrahman was on his expedition, they also performed the sunnahs of the prayers. 
412-) Yahya reports: While Imam-i  Mâlike was traveling, he was asked whether the sunnats of the prayer would be performed. “Whether 
it is done or not. It does not matter whether the circumcision is the sunnah of the night or day prayer. According to what I heard, some 
ulema also perform sunnats while they are traveling.” 
413-) Nafi narrates: Abdullah b. Omar sees that his son Ubeydullah performed the sunnahs while he was on his expedition, and something happened to him. 

he wouldn't say. 
414-) Abdullah b. From Umar: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) praying towards Khaybar while he was traveling on a donkey. Muslim, 
Salatu'l-Musafirîn,  6/35, See also. ÿeybanî, 207 415-) Abdullah b. From Umar: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was on a journey, 
he used to pray in the direction he was going on his mount. Bukhari, Taksîru's-Salat,  18/8; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/37. b. Dinar: 
«Abdullah b. That's what Omar would have done." says. A person who prays on a mount, on which it is not possible to turn to the qibla, 
performs the prayer in the direction his mount is going, and his heart turns towards the qibla. In the hadith that Sîrîn narrated from Enes, 
there is more to this; Anas says: "If I had not seen the Messenger of Allah doing this, I would not have done it." 

416-) Yahya b. From Said: During a journey, Enes b. I saw Malik. He was praying on a donkey. 
He was not facing the qibla, and he was making ruku and prostration implicitly without putting his face anywhere. Buhari, 

Taksîru's-Salat,  18/10; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/41. There is much more in the narration made by Sirin Anas: "If I had not seen the Messenger of Allah do this, I would not have done it either." See also Shaybani. 205, 208. 417-) From Umm Hani, the daughter of Abu Talib: In the year Mecca was conquered, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wrapped himself in a cloth made of a piece of cloth and prayed for eight rak'ahs. 418-) From Umm Hani, daughter of Abu Talib: It was the year Mecca was conquered. I went to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). He was washing (guzzling). Hadrat Fatima kept a curtain in front of her so that others could not see it. I said hi. Who's coming?' she asked. Me: Umm Hani, daughter of Abu Talib!» I replied. Thereupon: (Welcome!), Umm Hani!» said. Then, when he finished washing, he wrapped himself in a piece of cloth and prayed for eight rak'ahs and returned. Me: O Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)! My brother Ali says he will kill the son of Hübeyre, whom I entrusted, what should we do?' said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Umm Hani! What you entrust, we will assure you!” he commanded. It was just mid-morning  when this event that I described took place. Bukhari, Salat, 8/4; Muslim, Salatu'l Musafirin, 6/82, 83. 
419-) From Hadrat Aisha: I did not see the Messenger of Allah perform the morning prayer, but I do. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would sometimes do the voluntary acts of worship he wanted to do, and abandon them out of fear that it would be made obligatory for them. Bukhari, Tahajjud, 19/5; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/77. Aisha's statement that she did not see that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) performed the morning prayer does not indicate that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) did not perform that prayer. These and similar hadiths express that he does not continue the sunnah prayers as fard as they are obligatory and sometimes abandons them with the thought of not being accepted as fard. 420-) From Hadrat Aisha: Hadrat Aisha prays eight rak'ahs of the morning prayer, then: "Even if my parents come out of the grave, I will not let them go!" he would say. 421-) Enes b. Malik tells; My grandmother Mülayke had invited the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) to dinner. After the meal, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Let me lead you in prayer!” he commanded. I got up, took our blackened mat because it was very old, and wiped it with water. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up. Me and Yetim Nevevi, this person's name is Damiyye b. He said that he was Sa'd al-Himyeri.  (We lined up behind Suyuti, Tenvîru'ul-Hayalik,  and my grandmother further back. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led us two rak'ahs of prayer and left. , Adhan, 10/161; Muslim, Mesacid, 5/266. 
422-) Ubeydullah b. Abdullah b. From Utbe: In the heat of noon, Umar b. I went to Khattab, he was praying for the morning, and I immediately stood behind him. Thereupon, he pulled me to his right side, close to his level. Later, when Yerfa came, I retreated a little. Together with Yerfa, we made a row behind Hazrat Umar. 423-) From Abu Said al-Khudri:  The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Let any of you prevent anyone from passing in front of him as much as he can while performing prayers. If he insists on passing, let him prevent him from passing, for he is acting like a devil.” Bukhari, Salat, 8/10; Muslim, Salat, 4/258, 259 424-) Büsr b. From Said: Zayd b. Khalid al-Juheni  sent me to Abu Juheym and asked him: "What did he hear from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about the situation of the person who is praying in front of him". Abu Juhaym narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If the person who passed in front of the person praying had known the cause of it, forty (days)" (Râvî Ebu'n-Nadr  said: Would the one who conveyed this hadith to me forty days or forty months? , or forty years, I don't remember) he would understand that it would be better for him to wait where he was.” Bukhari, Salat, 8/101; Muslim Salat 4/261 425-) From Ka'bul Ahbar: If the person who passed in front of the prayer had known what was wrong with it, he would have understood that it would be better for the earth to split and enter into it than to pass. 426-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Abdullah b. Omar considered it bad to pass in front of women who were praying. 
427-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar would neither pass in front of the person praying, nor would he allow anyone to pass in 
front of him while he was praying. 
428-) Abdullah b. Abbas tells: I came riding a female donkey. In those days, I was approaching puberty. 
The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was leading the congregation in prayer in Mina. I just walked past a few lines. I got off my 
donkey and let him graze. I immediately entered one of the ranks. No one said anything to me because of my action. Bukhari, 
Salat, 8/90; Muslim, Salat, 4/254 429-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Sa'd b. Ebi Vakkas used to pass in front 
of the rows while praying. 
Malik says: It is permissible for a person who comes to the congregation after he has recited and the imam uttered takbir and stood in 
front of the rows if he cannot find a place to pass. 
430-) Ali b. From Abi Talib: If someone passes in front of the person praying, the prayer is not interrupted. 
431-) Abdullah b. Umar used to say: "If someone passes in front of the person praying, nothing will interrupt his prayer." Shaybani, 275. 
432-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Abdullah b. Umar used to make his mount sutrah (blocker) while he was praying. 
433-) Hisham b. Urve also reported that his father did not put a sutrah in front of him while he was praying in the field (in the open field, in the countryside). 
434-) From Abu Cafer al-Kari:  Abdullah b. I saw that when Umar prostrated, he slightly smoothed the pebbles where he would put his forehead. 
Shaybanî, 145 435-) Abu Zerden: It is permissible to correct the place where the forehead will come from in sajdah, once with one movement. 
However, not doing this is better than having red-colored  camels (which are the most desirable of all camels). Sufyan-Zuhri  is narrated as Ebu'l-
Ahvas Ebu Zer yoîuyîa merfu. (Abu Davud, Salat, 2/171; Tirmidhi, Salat, 2/162; Nesai, Sahv, 13/7; Ibn Mace, Ikametu's-Salat,  5/62. 

436-) From Nafi: Ömer b. Khattab would order the congregation to keep the rows straight, and when he received the news that the rows 
were straightened, he would start the prayer by saying takbir. 
437-) Ebû Süheyl b. Malik narrates from his father: Osman b. I was with Affan. While the iqama was being brought for prayer, I was 
asking him to give me an aid salary. Meanwhile, he was smoothing the pebbles on the ground with his foot. Then the man he had sent to 
straighten the ranks arrived, and he was informed that the ranks were straight. Me: "Get in the line!" He said and stopped to pray by saying takbir. 

438-) Abdulkerim b. From Ebî Muharik'il—Basrî:  These words are from the words of the first prophets: "If you have lost your sense of 
shame, do whatever you want". In addition, "Placing one of the hands on the other in prayer (right hand on the left hand), fasting without 
waiting when it's time for iftar, eating late at the time of sahur, (it is sunnah.) The first part, Ebu Mas'ud, Ukbe b. Amr al-Ansari  delivers it to al-
Bedri. Bukhari, Adhan, 10/87. 

439-) Sahl b. From Sa'd: "Muslims were commanded to put their right hands over their left hands while praying." 
Abu Hazim, one of the narrators of the narration, says: Sahl b. I know for sure that Sa'd attributes this to the Prophet. ÿeybanî, 291 440-) From Nafi: 
Abdullah b. Umar would not recite the qunut prayer in any prayer. According to the Hanafi Sect, the kunut prayer is read only in the third rak'ah of 
the witr prayer; Kunut prayer is not read in the morning prayer. Shafi'i 

According to his sect, kunut is also read in the morning prayer 441-) 
Hisham b. Urwa narrates from his father: Abdullah b. He used to lead his friends in prayer. It was once again a prayer time. Abdullah went to the 
toilet, and when he returned, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) narrated that he said: "If one of you needs to go to the toilet, 
you need to go before the prayer." Abu Dawud, Taharet, 1/43; Tirmidhi, Taharet, 1/108; Nesai, Imamet, 10/51; Ibn Mace, Taharet, 1/114 442-) 
Zayd b. From Eslem: Omar b. Khattab said: "When any of you has to pour water, big or small, he should not stop praying." 

443-) It was narrated from Abu Hurayra: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: As long as one of you is standing in the place where he is 
praying with ablution, the angels pray to him as follows: "O Allah, forgive him! Lord, have mercy on him!” Bukhari, Adhan, 10/36; Muslim, 
Masjid, 5/49. Malik says the following about the word "Malem yuhdis" in this hadith: It means "as long as he does not break his ablution". 

444-) From Abu Hurairah: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "If any of you, after performing the prayer, does not go to his 
house and waits for the prayer in the mosque without any other hindrance than to wait for the next time, he will be counted in that prayer as long 
as he waits." Bukhari, Adhan, 10/36; Muslim, Masjid, 5/275. for those who don't have a job. It is better for a working person to go to work after 
performing the prayer than to sit in the mosque. 
In fact, Hazrat Umar would sometimes stop by the mosque between prayers and send the people sitting there to work with a whip. 
445-) Abu Bakr b. From Abdurrahman: A person who goes to the mosque early or late to learn or teach something good, not for anything 
else, and then returns home, is like a person who goes out to jihad in the way of Allah and returns with spoils.41 446-) From Abu Hurayra: 
Any of you should perform his prayer If he waits there after he prays, the angels pray for him as follows: “My God, forgive him! God have 
mercy on him!” If he gets up at the place where he prayed and sits in the mosque to wait for the next prayer, he will be counted in the prayer as long 
as he waits. 

447-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Shall I inform you of what Allah will destroy by destroying 
mistakes and elevating ranks? It is to make ablution on cold days, to go to the congregation from far places, and to wait for the next time after 
performing the prayer. This is true commitment! That is true devotion!” Muslim, Taharet, 5/41. at the end of the sheriff; The Arabic word for 
"here's true devotion" is "er-ribat".  The word er-ribat  means standing in the mosque to wait for the prayer, keeping watch in strategic places along 
the border where the enemy may come, and continuing the prayer. Abdilber says: It is clear that it cannot be known by reason and ijtihad. For, 
this would be to speak definitively about a matter in which Allah's judgment and the reward that He will give in return are unclear. If so, this word 
belongs to the Prophet and is by law merfu. As a matter of fact, Süheyl b. Sa'd also narrated it from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) as 
merfû.” 

448-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: It is said that, except for the hypocrites, after the call to prayer, one can only leave the mosque again. 

There may be those who want to return to the mosque. Ibn Abdilber says: "Such a statement can be made with 
evidence, not with his own opinion." It has also been narrated from Abu Hurayra with an authentic deed, Bukhari, Salat, 8/60; 
Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/70 449-) From Abu Qatada al-Ansari:  The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When anyone of you 
enters the mosque, he should pray two rakats (tahiyyatul mosque) before sitting down." 

450-) Abu Salama b. Abdurrahman from Omar b. To Abu Nadr, the freedman of Ubeydullah: When I come to the mosque, I 
see that the master is sitting without performing the tahiyatul mosque prayer. said. By saying this to Abu Salama, Umar b. 
He states that he does not like Ubaydullah to sit in the mosque without praying two rak'ahs. Malik says: It is good to make a 
tahiyyat al masjid, but it is not obligatory. 
451-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. When Umar prostrated, he would put the palms of his hands where he had put his forehead. 
I saw him once on a cold day, when he had taken off his hands (prostrating) under his shirt (dress) and placed them on the 
pebbles. 
452-) Abdullah b. From Omar: Whoever puts his forehead on the ground should also put his hands next to his forehead. When he raises his 
forehead, let him raise his hands, for like the face, the hands prostrate. 
453-) Sahl b. Sa'd es-Saidi  narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) Amr b. Avf had gone to find out about his sons. When 
the time for prayer approached, the muezzin asked Hadrat Abu Bakr: Will you be an imam or should I sit down?' he asked, 
and he said: Yes. When Hazrat Abu Bakr took the lead, while the congregation was praying, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 
came, caught up with the congregation and stood in a row. Thereupon, the congregation (to explain that the Prophet had 
come) was clapping their hands. However, Hazrat Abu Bakr turned his head and saw the Prophet. Thereupon, the Messenger 
of Allah (pbuh) signaled to him, "Continue". Abu Bakr did not care at all. When the congregation's clapping increased, Abu 
Bakr raised his hands and praised Allah because of the Messenger of Allah's order to continue with him, and he stepped back 
and entered the rear row. This time, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took the lead, led the prayer and finished it. 

After the prayer: Abu Bakr! Why did you back off when I said go ahead?" he commanded. Abu Bakr: It would not be right for 
Abu Kuhafe's son to lead the prayer in front of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). When the Prophet replied: I saw most of you 
clapping your hands in prayer. In such cases, say Subhanallah. 
In this way, you explain what you want to tell to the person in the prayer. Clapping hands in prayer is an act peculiar to 
women.” Bukhari, Adhan, 10/48; Muslim, Salat, 4/102. 
454-) From Nafi: Ibn Omar would never look left or right while praying. 
455-) From Abu Cafer al-Kari:  I was praying, Abdullah b. Ömer was behind me, I was not aware of it. 
I was turning left and right (even though the prayer was not over), so he warned me 456-) 
Hunayf's grandson, Abu Umama b. From Sahl: Zayd b. When he came to the fixed mosque, the congregation was in ruku'. 
Thereupon, he went into ruku', then he shuffled his feet and joined the ranks. 457-) From Imam-i  Malik: Abdullah b. It has been 
reported to me that Masud (to catch up with the congregation in bowing) dragged his feet to the front. 

458-) Abu Humayd es-Saidi  narrates: He said to the Prophet: Rasûlullah, how can we send blessings on you?' they asked. 
He said: "O Allah, have mercy on Muhammad (peace be upon him), his wives, and offspring, as you had mercy on the family 
of Ibrahim (peace be upon him). Give blessings and blessings to Muhammad (pbuh), his wives and his offspring, just as you 
gave blessings and blessings to the family of Abraham. 
Surely you are the most worthy of praise and the most honorable." Bukhari, Anbiya, 60/10; Muslim, Salat, 4/69, See also. 
Shaybani, 292. 
459-) Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari  narrates: Sa'd b. We were in Ubade's assembly. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) 
came. Bashir b. Sa'd said to him: O Messenger of Allah! Allah commands us to send salawat on you, how should we send 
salawat?" she asked. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not answer and remained silent. Then we thought to ourselves, "I wish 
he hadn't asked". Afterwards, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Have mercy on Muhammad and his 
family as you had mercy on Ibrahim, and give blessings and blessings on Muhammad's family as you gave goodness and 
blessings to the family of Ibrahim in the world. Surely you are worthy of praise and the most honorable. (This is salawat) and 
the greeting is as you know.” Muslim, Salat, 4/65, See also. Shaybani, 293. Ekrem, as you know in salutation, means the 
salutation we recite in Tahiyyat in prayer. He said: "Assalamu aleyke ayyuhennebiyyu wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuhu." Stop. 
Muslim, Salat, 4/65, See also. Shaybani, 293. 

460-) Abdullah b. From Dinar: Abdullah b. I saw Umar, standing by the grave of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi 
wa sallam) saying his blessings and praying to Abu Bakr and Omar. 461-) From Ibn Umar: The Messenger of Allah 
(pbuh) used to perform two rak'ahs of sunnah at his house before and after the noon fard, and two rak'ahs at his house after 
the evening fard. After the fard prayer of the night prayer, he would recite two rak'ahs of sunnah. He did not perform any 
sunnah in the mosque after the fard of the Friday prayer. He would return to his room and perform a two-rak'ah  prayer there. 
Bukhari, Friday, 11/39; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/104. 

462-) From Abu Hurayra: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Do you think I see only the qibla (purgatory) during prayer? I swear by Allah that neither your awe nor your bowing is hidden from me. I definitely see what you are doing behind me. » Bukhari, Salat, 8/40; Muslim, Salat, 4/109 463-) Abdullah b. From Omar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to go to the Cuban mosque sometimes on foot and sometimes on a horseback. Bukhari, Salat fi Masjid Mecca ve'l-Medina,  20/4; Muslim, Hajj, 15/97. 
464-) Numan b. From Murra: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said before the verses were revealed about those who drink alcohol and 
steal: What is your opinion about those who drink alcohol, steal and commit adultery?» she asked. 
And the Companions said: And they know the Messenger better.” he replied. Thereupon, he said: It is a sin, all of them have their punishment. 
The worst of theft is the stealing of the one who steals from the prayer.” Upon this statement, the Companions said: How does a person steal 
from prayer, O Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)?' she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) replied, 
“By disobeying the rules of ruku and sujud, and hastening to bow and sujud.” Ibn Abdilber says: "As mursal from an-Nu'man  b. Murra, Malik's 
narrators did not differ in his narration. It is a sound-musnad  hadith through Abu Hurayra and Abu Said 465-) Hisham reports from his father, 
Urwa: The Messenger of Allah ( (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Perform some of your prayers (supererogatory prayers) in your homes.” 
Ibn Abdilber says: According to all, this hadith is mursal in Muwatta. Nafi reported it through Ibn Omar. Salat, 8/52; Muslim, Salatu'l-musafirin,  
6/208 466-) From Abdullah b. Omar: Sick If a person is not in a position to prostrate, he will not lift anything to his forehead. 

He makes prostration by implying with his 
head, 467-) Rebia b. From Abi Abdurrahman: Abdullah b. When Umar came to the mosque, he had performed the congregational prayer. 
Thereupon, he immediately started from fard without performing any circumcision. Abdullah b. Omar's not performing the sunnah but 
performing the fard may be because it is time to declare that it is permissible to abandon the sunnah sometimes or because time is running 
out. Otherwise, the Companions would have performed all sunnahs with care and attention 468-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar stopped by a 
man who was praying and greeted him. The man (and alaikum salaam) received the greeting. Thereupon, Abdullah b. Turning to the man, 
Umar said: "When one of you is greeted while praying, he should not greet you (and say hello) but let him take it with a hand signal. This 
was at the beginning of Islam. Afterwards, it is forbidden to greet the one who prays and to receive greetings from him. 469-) Abdullah b. 
From Umar: Whoever forgets to perform the sunnah prayer and remembers it while praying in congregation, let the imam perform the 
forgotten prayer after saluting and then perform the last sunnah. 

470-) Vasi b. Habban narrates: I was praying, Abdullah b. Omar was standing with his back to the qibla wall. When I finished the 
prayer, I turned from my left and went to him. "Why didn't you turn from your right?" she asked. 
"I saw you, I came back for him." said. You did well. Some say, when you finish the prayer, turn on your right. When you pray, turn from the 
side you want; turn right or turn left.” The purpose of turning mentioned in this hadith is to turn his face towards the congregation after the 
imam or one of the congregation has finished the prayer. 
According to this hadith, it is permissible to turn from the right or the left. But when we look at the other hadiths on this issue, it is 
understood that it is more virtuous to turn from the right. said. 
471-) Hisham b. Urve's father narrates from one of the immigrants: Abdullah b. Amr b. As'a: Can I pray in the camel pen? I asked. 
Abdullah: But you can do it in the sheep pens.” gave the answer. Ibn Abdilber says; "Such a difference cannot be understood by reason." 
It was narrated from er-Barâ  as merfu. 
(Abu Dawud, Salat, 2/25). 
472-) Sâî'd b. From Musayyeb: There is no sunnat (two rak'ah) of prayer or prayer (two rak'ahs) that is sat in all its rak'ahs. However, 
the fard of the evening prayer, whose one rakat cannot be reached, is excepted! 
473-) From Abu Qatada al-Ansari:  The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), his daughter Aisha (radiyallahu anha), Rebia b. He 
used to take his daughter, Umama, from Abdisems' son Abu'l-As,  on his shoulder while praying, lay her on the ground while prostrating, 
and pick her up again when standing up. Bukhari, Salat, 8/106; Muslim, Masjid, 5/41. 
474-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "A group of angels is among you at night and a 
group of angels is with you during the day. Both groups hand over their duties to each other in the afternoon and morning prayers. 
Then, when those who served at night returned, Allahu ta'ala -although He Himself knew very well-said to them: What were they doing 
while you were coming?' he asks. They said: They were praying when we came. They were still praying when we arrived.” they answer. 
Bukhari, Mevakîtu's-Salat,  9/16; Muslim, Masâcid, 5/210. 
475-) From Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi 
wa sallam) said (when his illness got worse): Inform Bakr so that he will lead the prayer in the congregation. Then I said: O Messenger of 
Allah! When Abu Bakr takes your place, he cannot make his voice heard in the congregation because of crying. Therefore, give this task 
to Hazrat Umar and he will lead it.” said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said again: Tell Bakr to lead the 
congregation in prayer.' he commanded. This time from Hafsa: To the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): When Abu Bakr 
takes your office, he cannot be heard because of crying. I said, "Tell the congregation, I wanted Omar to lead the prayer". When Hafsa said 
this, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "What did you do to even women Yusuf?! Tell Abu Bakr to lead the congregation's prayer!” he 
commanded. This is what Hafsa heard 

on the scolding me: It was all because of you!» he snapped. Bukhari, Adhan, 10/46. 
476-) Adi b. From the cucumber's son, Ubaydullah: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sitting among a group of people. A man 
came to him and told him something secretly, but we did not hear what the man said until the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told us 
what was said. We also learned that the man wanted permission to kill one of the hypocrites. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah 
(pbuh) openly said to the man: Does he testify that the man you want to kill is no god but Allah, and that Muhammad is his 
servant and Messenger?» she asked. Man: Yes he does, but he doesn't say it sincerely.' said. The Messenger of Allah (may 
peace be upon him) asked again: Does he pray?' she asked. The man replied, "Yes, but not sincere..." Thereupon, the Prophet 
said: Allahu Teala forbade the killing of such people. he commanded. Ibn Abdilber says: "Other Muwatta narrators also narrated 
it as mursal in this way. Abdullah did not see the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). 

477-) Atâ b. From Yesar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed: Do not make my grave a place of worship! 
The wrath of Allah will be severe on the nation that turns the graves of their prophets into a mosque.” Ibn Abdilber says: "There 
is no disagreement from Malik regarding the mursal of this hadith." 
478-) Mahmud b. From er-Rebî'  al-Ansari:  Utban b. Malik was a man and he was leading his people in prayer. One day, he came 
to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). There is a time, the night becomes pitch dark, there is a time when it 
rains, floods flow. I am just a person. O Messenger of Allah! Come to my house and pray in a place where you are making 
donations and I will make it a prayer place!” he begged. Thereupon, the Prophet came to this person's house and said: Where 
do you want me to pray?' she asked. Utban showed a corner of the house, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed there. 
Bukhari, Salat, 8/46; Muslim, Masjid, 5/263. 
479-) Abbad b. Tamim narrates from his uncle: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) lying on his back in the mosque, 
with his feet crossed. Bukhari, Salat, 8/85; Muslim, al-Libas  ve'z-Zinet,  37/75. 

480-) Said b. Musayyeb said on this subject: "Umar b. Khattab and Osman b. Affan would do the same.” 
says. 
481-) Yahya b. Said narrates: Abdullah b. Mas'ud said to one of the men: You have a lot of jurists (fiqh scholars), few Qur'an 
(readers of the Qur'an), whose rules are followed, but whose types are not read properly, those who ask for less, those who give 
more, -as our Prophet ordered--the  prayer should be extended. You live in a time when sermons are kept short and deeds are 
preferred to desires. There will come a time when the faqih will be few but the Qur'an will be many, the Qur'an will be read 
properly but its rules will not be followed, the beggar will increase but the giver will decrease, the sermons will be extended but 
the prayer will be performed quickly, the desires will be preferred to the deeds. 
482-) Yahya b. From Said: According to what I heard, prayer will be looked at first of the servant's deeds, if there are any 
accepted from him, his other deeds will also be looked at, otherwise none of his other deeds will be looked at. Abu Dawud, 
Salat, 2/145; Tirmidhi, Salat, 2/188; Nesai, Salat, 5/9; Ibn Mace, Iqamatu's-Salat,  5/202. 
483-) From Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): The deed that the Messenger of Allah 
(sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) liked the most was the one that was done continuously. Bukhari, Rikak, 81/18. 
484-) Amir, his father Sa'd b. It is narrated from Abi Waqqas: There were two brothers, one of whom died forty days before 
the other. Once, in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), the merits of the first of these brothers 
who died were told. The Prophet: Wasn't the next deceased Muslim? she asked. He said to him: He was a Muslim, O Messenger 
of Allah! He wasn't a bad man either." it was answered. Thereupon, he said: Do you know what degrees his prayer brought him? 
Prayer is like a big and sweet river flowing in front of your door. 
Do you think that if a person enters this river five times a day and washes, will there be any dirt left on him? Surely, you do not 
know how much his prayer has brought him.” he commanded. The last part is narrated from Abu Hurayra as merfu. 
Bukhari, Mawakitu's-Salat,  9/6; Muslim, Mesâcid, 5/283 485-) 
Imam-i  Malik narrates: According to what I heard, Ata b. While Yesar was in the mosque, when peddlers stopped by him, he 
said to them: What do you have, what do you want?' he asks, when they say that they are also sellers: go to the world market, 
this is the market of the hereafter!» he replied. 
486-) From Malik: According to what I heard, Umar b. After Khattab built a special place called Butayha on one side of the 
mosque: "Whoever wants to speak or recite poetry aloud or secretly, come here." said. 
487-) Talha b. Ubeydullah narrates: A disheveled man from the people of Necid came to the Prophet. He spoke very loudly, but 
we could not understand what he was saying. When we got closer, we realized that he was asking what the conditions of Islam 
were. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "Prayer five times a day!" he commanded. Man: Is there any other 
prayer that I should pray besides them? she asked. Our Prophet said: This is the obligatory one, you can make it optional if you 
want.' said. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: to fast.” he commanded. Man: Is there any other fasting 
that is obligatory on me?' Our Prophet said: "You can hold it in vain if you want." he commanded. (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): 
There is also zakat.” said. Man: Is there anything else that I have to give as obligatory on me other than zakat?» The Prophet 
said: No, you can give alms if you want. 

Thereupon, the man turned and said, "I swear by God, I will neither do more nor less than what he said." When Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) heard this saying of the man: If he stops, he will be successful. he commanded. Bukhari, Faith, 2/34; Muslim, 3/8; Shafii, Risale, no: 344. 488-) From Abu Huraira; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When one of you sleeps, the devil ties three knots on his head, and each knot causes him to sleep deeply all night. If he wakes up at night and remembers Allah, one of the knots is untied, he gets up and performs ablution, the second one is untied, and if he prays, the third knot is untied and he becomes vigorous and peaceful. If he neither wakes up and remembers Allah, neither performs ablution nor prays, he wakes up in a lazy and exhausted state” Bukhari, Tahajjud, 19/12; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirîn, 6/207 489-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard from most of our scholars, they said: "Since the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), the adhan has not been called for Ramadan and Eid-al-Adha  prayers, and the Kaamet is not called. cannot be brought.” Ibn Abbas and Jabir b. He came from Abdillah as a merfu. Bukhari, Ideyn, 13/7; Muslim, Salatu'l Ideyn, 8/5. Malik adds the following on this issue: This is a sunnah, the practice of which there is no disagreement between us. 490-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar used to make ghusl before going to prayer on the day of Eid-al-Fitr.  Shaybani, 69, 70. 
491-) From Ibn Shihab: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform the Eid-al-Adha  and Eid-al-Fitr  prayers before the sermon. He came from Ibn Omar as a merfu. Ideyn, 13/7; Muslim, Salatu'l-ideyn,  8/8. See also Shaybani, 232. Eid prayer is wajib and has two rak'ats. In the first rak'ah, from Subhaneke; In the second, after the zamm-i  surah, takbir is recited three times without tying the hands. 492-) From Imam-i  Malik: I heard that Hazrat Abu Bakr and Hazrat Umar used to perform their Eid prayers before the sermon, just like the Prophet. He came from Ibn Abbas as a merfu. Bukhari, Ideyn, 13/8; Muslim, Salatu'l­ideyn, 8/1. 493-) From the freedman of Ibn Azhar, Abu Ubayd: Omar b. I attended an Eid prayer with Khattab. 
After performing the Eid prayer, he delivered a sermon to the congregation and said: (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade you to fast two days a year. One of them is the day of Eid-al-Fitr  and the other is the first day of Eid-al-Adha.”  Buhari, Savm, 30/66; Muslim, Siam, 13/138. Ubeyd said: On a feast, Osman b. I've been with Affan. He also came and offered the Eid prayer and then delivered the sermon. In the sermon: Two feasts came together today: Those who want from the surrounding should wait until the Friday prayer time, and those who do not want to return should return. said. It came from Abu Hurayra as mana merfu. David, Salat, 2/219; Ibn Mace, Ikametu's-Salat,  5/166 In the year Osman was besieged, Ali b. I was with Abi Talib. He came in the same way and delivered a sermon after performing the Eid prayer. Shaybani, 
232. 
494-) Hisham b. Urve reports from his father: He used to eat before going to the Eid prayer on the day of Eid-al-Fitr.  He came 
from Enes as a merfu. Bukhari, Ideyn, 13/4. 
495-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: On the day of Eid-al-Fitr,  Muslims were ordered to eat before going to prayer. Malik says regarding 
this hadith: "People don't have to behave like this for the day of Eid-al-Adha." 

496-) Utbe b. Mas'ud's grandson Ubeydullah b. Abdullah narrates: Umar b. Khattab asked Abu Vakid al-Leysi  what the Prophet recited during Ramadan and Eid-al-Adha  prayers. He also said: "He used to read the suras (starting with the verses of Kaf ve'l Kur'anil-Mecid  and îkterebetissaatü venÿak-kal  kamar)." gave the answer. Shaybani, 236. 
497-) Abdullah b. From Nafi, the freedman of Omar: I was with Abu Huraira during the Eid al-Adha  and Ramadan holidays. In the first rak'ah, he recited seven takbirs before the Fatiha and its increase, and in the last rak'ah, he recited five takbirs before the Fatiha and its increase before the surah. He came from Aisha as a merfu. Abu Dawud, Salat, 2/242 Malik says regarding this narration: According to us, this is the number of takbirs for the Eid prayer. 498-) Again, Imam-i  Malik says the following about a person who cannot attend the Eid prayer: It is not necessary to perform the Eid prayer alone, neither in the mosque nor in his house, if he does, there is no harm. He says seven takbirs at the beginning of the first rak'ah and five more at the beginning of the second rak'ah before the recitation. According to the Hanafi sect, takbirs in Eid prayers are three in the first rak'ah and three in the second, a total of six. 499-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar would not perform any other prayers before or after the Eid prayer on the day of Eid-al-Fitr.  
500-) Imam-i  Malik narrates: According to what I heard, Said b. Müseyyeb used to go to the Eid prayer before the sun rose after 
performing the morning prayer. It came from Ibn Abbas as merfu 501-) Abdurrahman b. From Kasÿm: My father Kasÿm would pray four rak'ahs before going to the Eid prayer on Eid day. ÿeyban, 235 502-) Hisham b. Urve reports from his father: My father used to pray in the mosque before the prayer on Eid-al-Fitr  503-) From Imam-i  Malik: We have an undisputed tradition regarding Ramadan and Eid-al-Adha,  which is the imam, He leaves his house before the Eid prayer time, and when he arrives at the place of prayer, it is time for the Eid prayer. The practice in our country is different from this. After the morning prayer, one waits in the mosque by reading or preaching the Qur'an until the time of the Eid prayer begins. Afterwards, the holiday prayer is performed, the holiday sermon is listened, and the feast is started by praying. 504-) According to Yahya's narration, Imam-i  Malik said: "Is it right for a person who performs the Eid prayer by following the imam to leave the mosque without listening to the sermon?" When asked, he replied: "No, it is not right for the congregation to leave before the imam finishes the sermon." he replied. 505-) Salih b. Havvat narrates from a person who performed the fear prayer together with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) in the Battle of Zatu'r-rika':  First, a group came and stood behind the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), while the other group remained in the face of the enemy. . After our Prophet led the rowers one rak'ah, he stood by himself. Those who were in the row finished their prayers by themselves and left. This time, the group waiting in the face of the enemy came. After performing the remaining rak'ah for the second group, he sat down in tahiyyat. After the congregation completed the rak'ah that they did not perform, they all saluted together. Bukhari, Megazi, 64/31; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/310; Shafii, Risale, no: 509, 677. prayer; war etc. In extraordinary situations, it is performed in a special way, as explained in this section, without interrupting the duty of protection from the enemy 506-) Sahl b. Abi Hasma explains: The prayer of fear is performed as follows: The imam takes the lead, a group of congregation lines up behind him, and another group waits in front of the enemy. After the imam leads this group one rak'ah, they stand up for the second rak'ah. The congregation behind him stands up until they complete the remaining rak'ahs on their own. When the congregation completes the prayer and salutes, they leave the row. The Imam is still standing. This time, those who wait in the face of the enemy come after the imam and become pure, and those who finish their prayers go before the enemy. This second group, who line up behind the imam, recites their takbirs. After leading them one rak'ah, the Imam greets them. 
The congregation salutes by completing the rak'ahs that they did not perform. Bukhari, Megazi, 64/31; Muslim, Salatu'l Musafirin, 6/310; Shafii, Risale, no: 509, 677. prayer; war etc. In extraordinary situations, it is performed in a special way, without interrupting the duty of protection from the enemy, as explained in this section 507-) Nafi' narrates: Abdullah b. When Umar was asked how the fear prayer was performed, he said: The other group waits in front of the enemy. After the first group performs one rak'ah, they change places with those who are waiting in front of the enemy without making a salute. After the second group prays one rak'ah together with the imam, the imam finishes the two-rak'ah  prayer. This time, both groups come separately and perform one more rak'ah. With this rak'ah they perform after the imam, they perform two rak'ahs each. If the enemy's danger is too great, they can do it standing, on their mounts, facing the qibla or not. Imam-i  Malik narrated that Nafi said about this narration: "Abdullah b. I am sure that you saw this form of the fear prayer narrated by Umar from the Prophet." Bukhari, Tafsir, 65/2/44. See also Shaybani, 290. 
508-) Said b. From Musayyeb: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not perform the afternoon and noon prayers during the Battle of the Trench when the sun did not set. Malik, Kasÿm b. Muhammad's Salih b. Regarding the fear prayer, which he narrated from Havvat, "It is the most beautifully described fear prayer I have ever heard." says.» He came from Jabir as manaca merfu. Mevakîtu's-Salat,  9/36; Muslim, Meaacid, 5/209. These prayers were lost due to the war and were performed that very night. 509-) Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) narrates: There was an eclipse of the sun during the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Our Prophet immediately led the people in prayer. He extended his standing in the first rak'ah of the prayer. Then there was the ruku' and he extended it a lot. Then he lifted his head and stretched out his cane again. But this second resurrection was shorter than the first. Then he went into ruku' again and extended the ruku'. This ruku; It was shorter than the previous ruku. After raising his head from ruku, he prostrated himself. After the prostration, he finished the prayer by performing the other rak'ahs as before. By this time, the sun was up. After giving praise to Allah, he made a speech to the congregation and said: “The sun and the moon are proofs of Allah's existence and power. They are not eclipsed by anyone's birth or anyone's death. When you see them being afflicted, pray to Allah and magnify him.” He then continued as follows. “The Ummah of Muhammad! I swear by Allah that no one is more jealous than Allah that his slave or concubine commits adultery. O Ummah of Muhammad! I swear to God that if you knew what I know, you would laugh less and cry more » Bukhari, Kusuf, 16/3; Muslim, Kusuf, 10/1. 510-) Abdullah b. Abbas narrates: There was an eclipse of the sun, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw it, and the people there stood together with him. He extended his standing in prayer long enough to recite Surah al-Baqara,  and extended bowing in the same way. Then he lifted his head and prolonged the resurrection again, but not as much as the first, and then there was ruku'. He remained long in the ruku', but it was not as long as the first ruku'. Then he stood up by prostrating (second rak'ah). It took a long time. But it was shorter than the first resurrection. Then there was ruku'. Ruku also took a long time. But it was shorter than the first ruku. Then he stood up shorter than the first one. Then he did a long bow. This was shorter than the first ruku. Then he prostrated. When he saluted, the sun was shining and he said: "The sun and the moon are two of the proofs of Allahu ta'ala's power and might. What a eclipse 
not because of anyone's death, nor because of anyone's birth. When you see that they are being held for him, remember Allah.” Solar eclipse (kusuf) prayer; It is two rak'ahs and is performed in congregation. Recitation is done in secret, there is no sermon. It can also be done alone at home. The lunar eclipse (kusuf) prayer is; It is still two rak'ahs, but it is performed alone. Similarly, two rak'ah prayers can be performed in severe weather. congregation on it: Messenger of Allah! We saw you pretending to hold something in your place, and then hesitating—what  happened?—”  he asked. Our Prophet replied: I saw Paradise, I tried to take clusters from it. If I had caught it, you would have eaten from it as long as the world stood still. I've seen hell too, I've never seen more than the horrible sight I saw today. 
The majority of those in Hell were women.” Why O Messenger of Allah?' when it is asked: Because of their ungratefulness!» he commanded. Are they ungrateful to God?” when it is said: because of their ingratitude towards others and their denial of their goodness. If you do someone a favor for the rest of your life, if he sees one bad thing from you, he says, "Have I seen any good?" he commanded. Bukhari, kusuf, 16/9; Muslim, Salatu'l-Kusuf,  10/17. 511-) Hadrat Aisha narrates: A Jewish woman came and said: May Allah protect you from the torment of the grave! she prayed for something. Thereupon, I asked the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him): Is there torment in the grave?' I asked. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) immediately said that he sought refuge in Allah from the torment of the grave. One morning, he was riding a horse when the sun was eclipsed. It was mid-morning  time from where he had gone. When he returned, he stopped by the rooms (masjid) behind the rooms (where his wives were staying) and prayed, and the Muslims who saw it stopped to pray behind him. He extended the standing and bowing in prayer for a long time. When he raised his head from ruku, he extended his standing again, but this was shorter than the first stand. Then there was ruku' again. But this was shorter than the first bow. After raising his head from ruku, he prostrated himself. When he stood up for the second rak'ah, he extended it again, but it was not as long as the first rak'ah. Then there was ruku'. He also extended it. But it was shorter than the first bow. He lifted his head. He stood up shortly after the first resurrection. Then there was Rukua again. He bowed slightly shorter than the first bow. Then he lifted his head and prostrated. When he finished the prayer, he would say what Allahu ta'ala had ordered him to say. He ordered the congregation to seek refuge in Allah from the torment of the grave. Bukhari, Kusuf, 16/7; Muslim, Salatu'l-Kusuf,  10/8. 512-) Esma, the daughter of Hazrat Abu Bakr as-Siddik,  tells: When the sun was eclipsed, I went to Hadrat Aisha, the wife of our Prophet. And I saw that everyone was praying, and he was praying too! What happened to them?" said. Hadrat Aisha pointed to the sky with her hand and said: “Subhanallah!” said. Is it a sign (of Allah's might)?” said. He made a "yes" sign with his head. The sun was out when he got up. I started pouring water on my head. After praising Allah, the Messenger of Allah said: What I saw, I had never seen before! I've seen heaven and hell. As it has been revealed to me, you will be tested in the grave like the test of the Dajjal: You will be brought 'what do you know about this man?' you are asked. If the person brought is a believer, he says, 'He is Muhammad, the Messenger of Allah, he brought us clear proofs and guidance, so we followed him, we believed, we followed him'. Then it is said to him: 'Sleep comfortably, we already knew that you were a believer'. If the person who is brought is a hypocrite, he will answer this question: 'I don't know, people say something about him, I would say the same as them.'" Bukhari, Wudu, 4/37; Muslim, Salatu'l-Kusuf,  10/11. 
513-) Abdullah b. Zayd al-Mazini  narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went to the prayer room and prayed for rain. When he turned to the qibla, he had his robe turned upside down. Bukhari, Istiska, 15/4; Muslim, Salatu'l-ÿstiska,  9/1. 514-) Imam-i  Malik was asked how many rak'ahs the prayer is for rain: "It is two rak'ahs." He said and added: Before the sermon, he leads two rak'ahs of prayer, then stands up, turns his robe upside down and starts to pray by turning against the qibla. He reads it aloud in prayer, when he turns his robe over, the right side comes to the left and the left side comes to the right. The congregation does the same. Then they sit facing the qibla.” Shaybani, 294. According to his sect, the prayer for rain is performed just like Friday, it is two rak'ahs, and the sermon is read after the prayer. Then pray for rain. 
515-) Amr b. From Shuayb: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed for rain, he used to pray as follows: "O Allah, give rain to your servants and animals. Spread your mercy, resurrect the lands of the dead.” Ibn Abdilber says: "Malik narrated in this way as mursal with the deed of Yahya-Amr."  Yahya-Amr  b. Shuayb -his father-narrated it as musnad with his grandfather's deed. Sevri is one of them. Abu Dawud, Salatu'l-ÿstiska,  3/2. 
516-) Enes b. Malik narrates: A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! The animals are dying of hunger there, the caravan stopped as soon as a bird flew on the roads. Pray that it rains now!” he begged. Thereupon, our Prophet prayed and it rained until the next Friday. The next Friday, a man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! Houses were destroyed by the rain, the roads became impassable, the animals are starving because they cannot go to the grassland!» said. Upon this situation, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) prayed, “O Allah, make the rain turn over the mountains and hills, into the valleys and in the forested places.” The rain immediately withdrew from Medina, just as the garment was removed from the top. Bukhari, Istiska, 15/6; Muslim, Salatu'l-ÿstiska,  9/8. 517-) Imam-i  Malik said, "Those who could not reach the prayer of rain, but who catch the sermon and who want to perform this prayer 
He was asked whether a person should pray at home or in the mosque. Imam-i  Malik replied: "He can perform it 
wherever he wants, or he may not do it if he doesn't want to." 
518-) Zayd b. Khalid al-Juheni  narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led us the morning prayer while there were 
some signs in the sky after the rain in Hudaybiya. Turning to the congregation after the prayer: Do you know what your 
Lord said?' she asked. Congregation: Allah and His Messenger know better!” When he replied, he reported that Allah 
Almighty said: "Some of my servants woke up believing in me and some of them disbelieved in me. Those who say that 
it has rained on us by the grace and mercy of Allah are those who believe in me and deny the power of the stars. Those 
who say that such and such a star made it rain on us are those who deny me and believe in the star.” Bukhari, Adhan, 
10/156; Muslim, faith, 1/125. 519-) From Imam-i  Malik; According to what I heard, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used 
to say: "If a cloud appears on the sea side and moves towards Damascus, it will rain heavily." 

520-) Abu Huraira narrates: If it rained when we got up in the morning, I would say, "Our Lord has sent us rain," and recite 
the following verse: "There is no force that can stop the rain that Allah will send to people. 
If it will not rain, no force can make it rain. He is the absolute victor and dominion.” Fatir, 35/2. 
521-) Abu Ayyub al-Ansari,  the friend of Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) used to say when he was in Egypt: 
“Believe me, I do not know what to do with these toilets! Because the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa 
sallam) said: "When one of you goes to pour water, big or small, he should not turn his front or back against the qibla." 
Bukhari, Wudu, 4/11; Muslim, Taharet, 2/59 522-) Nafi' narrates from a man from the Ansar: The Messenger of Allah 
(pbuh) forbade turning towards the qibla when pouring large or small water. 

523-) Abdullah b. From Omar: They say: "When you sit in the def-i  need, do not turn against the qibla and Beytülmakdis." 
Once, I was on the roof of my house, and I saw that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had climbed onto two mud bricks and 
had made a defence, facing Beytülmakdis. Then he said: "Perhaps you are one of those who pray while lying on their 
thighs." said. I said: "By God, I don't know." I replied. Malik described praying by lying on his thighs as sticking the body on 
the ground and on the thighs, without separating the body from the thighs, while the knees are on the ground when 
prostrating. Bukhari, Wudu, 4/12; Muslim, Taharet, 2/61; Shafii, Risale, no: 812. See also. Shaybani, 277. 

524-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw spit on the wall near the qibla, he scraped it off 
immediately. Then, turning to the congregation: Do not spit on the qibla side while praying. Because while you are praying, 
you will be counted in the presence of Allahu ta'ala." he commanded. Bukhari, Salat, 8/33; Muslim, Masjid, 5/50, See also. 
Shaybani, 281 525-) From Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw 
sputum (phlegm) on the wall near the qibla and scraped it off immediately. Bukhari, Salat, 8/33; Muslim, Mesacid, 5/52 
526-) Abdullah b. Omar narrates: While the people were in the Cuban mosque during the morning prayer, someone came 
and said: Tonight, a verse was sent to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and he was ordered to return to 
the Kaaba. At that time, they headed for Damascus (Jerusalem). Thereupon, they immediately turned towards the Kaaba. 
Bukhari, Salat, 8/32; Muslim, Masâcid, 5/13; Shafii, Risale, no: 365, See also. Shaybani, 283. 

527-) Said b. From Musayyeb: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed for about six months after he migrated to Medina, turning towards Bayt al-Maqdis  (Jerusalem). Then, two months before the Battle of Badr, the qibla was turned towards the Ka'ba. It is said in et-Tamhîd:  It is mursel in Muvatta. With the hadith of al-Bara,  it became musnad in meaning. Salat, 8/31; Muslim, Masâcid, 6/12; Shafii, Risale, no: 366. 528-) Ömer b. From Khattab: "The distance between east and west is always the qibla, provided that he turns his face towards Baytullah." 529-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "One rak'ah of prayer in this mosque of mine is better than a thousand rak'ahs of prayer in all other mosques except Masjid al-Haram."  Bukhari, Salatfi Masjid Mecca ve'l-Medina,  20/1; Muslim, Hajj, 15/505 530-) Abu Huraira or Ibn Abdilber says: "Muwatta narrators have narrated that my name is suspicious in this way." (Salat fi Masjid Mecca ve'l-medina,  20/5) and Muslim Hajj, 15/502); Narrated by Abu Huraira. From Said al-Khudri:  The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Between my house and my pulpit is a garden from the Gardens of Eden. My pulpit is above my basin.” Abdullah b. From Zayd al-Mazini:  The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Between my house and my pulpit is a garden from the gardens of Paradise." Bukhari, Salat fi Masjid Mecca ve'l-Medina,  20/5; Muslim, Hajj, 15/501 532-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do not prevent the concubines of Allah (i.e. women) from going to the mosques of Allah." Buhari, Friday, 11/13; Muslim, Salat, 4/136 533-) Büsr b. From Said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When a woman goes to the night prayer, her perfume should not be put on." This is mursal. Abdullah's wife Aisha (radiyallahu anha, mawsul 
he did. Muslim, Salat, 4/142 534-) 
Amr b. Nufayl's grandson from Zayd, Umar b. From Khattab's wife Âtike: Ömer b. I asked Khattab permission 
to go to the mosque. He remained silent without answering. I said to myself: "By God, I will go until I say don't go." 
said. He didn't say "don't go" either. 

535-) From Abdurrahman's daughter Amre: Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Prophet: If the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) knew that women were going to the masjid with perfume, he would have prevented them from going to the masjid, just as the women of the Israelites were barred from going to the masjid. , said. its narrator Yahya b. Said says: To Amre; Are the women of the sons of Israel barred from the mosques?” I asked. Yup." said. Bukhari, Adhan, 10/163; Muslim, Salat, 4/144. 536-) Abdullah b. Abi Bakr b. From Hazm: The Prophet's (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) Amr b. In the letter he wrote to Hazm, it was said: "No one can touch the Qur'an except those who are clean." Ibn Abdilber says: "There is no disagreement with Malik in the mursal of this hadith, it has also been narrated as musnad in a negative way. This letter is famous by the scholars of sirah, and is known by scholars with a reputation far from imputation.” 537-) Imam-i  Malik says the following regarding the issue: A person who does not have wudu can not touch the mushaf by making a cover for his hand or anything else. If it is permissible to touch the Qur'an without wudu, touching it with another container placed outside the mushaf would be welcome. 538-) Imam-i  Malik says in another word: "Only those who have ablution can touch the Qur'an." 
(Vakÿa: 56/79) The verse-i-kerîma  is in the condition of the following words of Almighty Allah in the period of 'Abese ve tawalla': "Beware, the verses of the Qur'an are a reminder; Those who wish accept them, the Qur'an is on sanctified, exalted, clean pages, It was written by good people, venerable ambassadors, » (Abese, 80/11-16) shaybani 297 539-) Muhammad b. From Sirîn: Ömer b. Khattab was among a community reciting the Qur'an. In the meantime, he left for the defence, then came back and started to read the Qur'an again. Then one of the men said: Emir! You are reciting the Qur'an without wudu'! said. Hazrat Umar: Who gave you this fatwa? Mutilation?» gave the answer. 540-) Umar b. From Khattab: If he cannot read the part of the Qur'an that he is customary to recite at night, and reads it in the time between the morning prayer and the noon prayer, it is considered that he has not broken his habit and fulfilled the custom of reading the Qur'an at night on time. Muslim, Salatul-Musafirin,  6/142. See also ÿeybanî, 168 541-) Yahya b. From Said: I and Habban's grandson Muhammad b. John was sitting. "Tell me what you heard from your father," said Mohammed, calling one of the men. "My father told me this!" He narrated what his father had said, saying: b. I went to the stable. I asked him what he thought about reciting the Qur'an in a week. Zayd: It will be fine.' He said and added: 'But in my opinion, it is better to make hatim once every fifteen or ten days.' 'Why do you say,' he said immediately, 'why', I asked. Zayd replied: "In order to be able to reflect on each verse thoroughly and to be as long as necessary at the end of the verse." 542-) Umar b. From Khattab: Hizam's grandson Hisham b. I saw that Hakim's did not read Surah Furqan as the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) taught me and I read it. I almost went out on him for that. I waited until I left the prayer. Then I took him by the robe and took him to the Prophet. To the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): O Messenger of Allah! This person does not read the chapter of Furkan the way you read it to us.” said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Leave him!” said to Hisham: Let me see Hisham!' he commanded. Hisham read it as he knew it. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: This is how it was revealed.” he commanded. Then he said to me: « Read it too!» said. I read. was also revealed. This Qur'an was revealed on seven letters. So read it as you find it easy.” he commanded. Bukhari, Husumat, 44/4; Muslim, Salatul-Musafirin,  6/271; Shafii, Risale, no: 752 543-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A person who learns is like the owner of a tied camel. If he takes care of his camel, he will have it; if he frees him, his camel will go away.” 
544-) From Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (pbuh): Haris b. Hisham asked the Prophet how the revelation came to him. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: ...Sometimes it sounds like a bell. This is the hardest thing for me. When the sound stopped, I would have understood what was revealed. Sometimes the angel takes the form of a human and brings me revelation; then the angel (Gabriel) would talk to me and I would learn what he said.» gave the answer. I saw that the Prophet had a revelation in one night. When I got rid of the revelation, I saw that sweat was flowing as if the vein on his forehead was cracked. Bukhari, Bedu'l-Vahy,  1/2; Muslim, Fadail, 43/87. 545-) Hisham b. Urwa narrates from his father: 'Abese wa tawalla' surah Abdullah b. It was revealed about Ummi Maktum. This event took place as follows: Abdullah came to the Prophet. O Mohammed! Can I come to you?" said. At that time, in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), the polytheists 
There was one of them. Thereupon, the Prophet ignored Abdullah and turned his head to the other side and addressed the person next to him: Father of so much! Do you find it difficult to accept what I am saying?" he commanded. The man replied: "I don't see any difficulty in accepting what you said about the blood shed to the gods..." Thereupon, the chapter of Abese was revealed, starting with the phrase, "The prophet frowned because someone came near him..." and continued. Tirmidhi (Tafsir, 44/80) narrates it as apocalyptic. 
546-) Zayd b. Maple narrates from his father: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went on the Hudaybiyya expedition, Umar b. Khattab was walking with him. Omar asked about any issue. Our Prophet did not answer. Then Umar (radiyallahu anh) asked again. Again he didn't answer. He asked again for the third time, and when he didn't answer this time, Ömer said to himself: You asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) three questions, and he never gave you an answer.” it was said. Afterwards, Hazrat Umar says: “...After that, I rode my camel and went all the way in front of the people. I was also afraid that any verse that would harm me about this event would come down. Not long after, I heard a scream calling out to me. I immediately went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) saying that what I was afraid of has happened to me. I said hi. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A surah was revealed to me tonight. He recited the chapter of Fatah by saying, "For me, it is more valuable than anything (the world) on which the sun rises." There will be such a group that you will underestimate your own prayers next to their prayers, your fasting next to their fasting, and your own deeds next to theirs. They will recite the Qur'an, but it will not go down their throats because they do not read it from the heart; They will come out of religion just as the arrow leaves the bow. You look at the arrow iron, you can't see a trace of blood, you look at the body of the arrow and you can't see anything. You look at the mane (feather) of the arrow, and you cannot find a trace there either. So you doubt whether the tip of the arrow is smeared with blood.» Bukhari, Fedâilu'l-Kur'an,  66/36; Muslim, Zakat, 12/148. 548-) According to what I heard from Imam-i  Malik, Abdullah b. Omar spent eight years on it to learn Surah Baqara. Abdullah b. Umar would not accept that he learned that surah after he did not apply all of the orders in the surah, like all the other companions of the surah, in his life. 549-) Abu Salama b. From Abdurrahman: Abu Hurayra recited the chapter of Inshikak to us and made prostration for recitation. 
After the sajdah, he narrated to the congregation that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) also performed prostration for recitation here. Bukhari, Sucûdu'l-Qur'an,  17/7; Muslim, Masjid, 5/107. See also Shaybani, 267. 550-) Nafi', the freedman of Ibn Omar, narrates from an Egyptian: Omar b. Khattab recited the chapter of Hajj and made two prostrations of recitation, then said: "The virtue of this surah has been increased by two prostrations." ÿeybanî, 269 551-) Abdullah b. From Dinar: Abdullah b. When Umar recited the 
chapter of Hajj, I saw that he made two prostrations for recitation, the devil 270,271, 552-) Ibn Shihab relates from A'raj: Omar b. Khattab 
recited the sura "Ve'n-necmi  iza heva" and prostrated for recitation. Then he got up and recited the other surah. Shaybani, 268. 
553-) Hisham b. Urwa narrates from his father: Omar b. Khattab recited Surah Nahl on the pulpit on Friday. 
Thereupon, he went down and prostrated with the congregation. He read the same place again the other Friday. 
While the congregation was preparing for the prostration of recitation: Be slow, Allah Almighty has left it up to us whether or not to do this 
prostration.” He did not make the prostration for the recitation and did not let the congregation do it. Bukhari, sujudu'l-quran,  17/10 554-) 
Imam-i  Malik says: If the imam recites the prostration verse while on the pulpit, it is not necessary to descend immediately and prostrate 
for recitation. (Then, after performing his duty on the pulpit, he prostrates himself when he descends.) 555-) Imam-i  Malik also says the 
following regarding the number of prostrations in the Qur'an: According to us, the number of prostrations that are obligatory in the Qur'an 
is eleven. There is no prostration which is obligatory to be performed in detailed surahs (short verses). 

556-) Regarding the timing of the prostration of recitation, he says: It is not appropriate to prostrate for recitation after the fard of the morning 
and afternoon prayers. Because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade performing prayers after the fard of the morning prayer until the sun 
rises and until the sun sets after the fard of the afternoon prayer. Prostration is like prayer. Therefore, it is not appropriate to recite a place 
with a verse of prostration during these two times. 557-) He asked Imam-i  Malik, "If someone recites the verse of prostration and a woman 
who is menstruating listens to it, should the woman perform prostration for recital?" he was asked. Imâm-i  Malik replied: Neither a woman 
nor a man can perform prostration for recitation unless they have wudu." 558-) The following question was asked to Imam-i  Malik: If a 
woman was reciting the verse of prostration and a man next to her heard it, would the man have to prostrate with the woman? Malik 
answered this question as follows: It is not necessary for a man to prostrate for recitation with a woman. Because in order for a group to 
perform prostration for recitation together, all of them must be men. However, in that case, you can make one of them an imam and read 
together. 

They do the prostration of recitation. Even if a person listens to the prostration verse recited by the imam, whom he does not obey, he does 
not do this prostration of recitation recited with him. 
559-) From Abu Said al-Khudri:  I saw a man reciting the surah 'Kul huvallahu ahad' over and over again. 
The very next day, I went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and explained the situation. Because the 
man almost underestimated what he read. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I swear by Allah that I 
live by his strength and will, that this surah is equivalent to one-third  of the Qur'an in terms of virtues." Bukhari, Fedâilu'l-Qur'an,  66/13. 
See also Shaybani, 172. 
560-) Abu Huraira narrates: I was walking with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). At one point, the Prophet heard a voice reciting Surah 
Kul huvallahu Ahad and said, "It has become fard". Me: O Messenger of Allah? When he asked, he said: "Paradise". Thereupon, I 
wanted to go and give the good news to the man who read it, but I was afraid that I would miss the opportunity to have a meal with the 
Messenger of Allah (pbuh). That's why I chose to dine with the Prophet. I then looked for the man, but couldn't find him there, he was 
gone. Tÿrmizi, Sevabul-Kur'an,  42/11 561-) Humayd b. From Abdurrahman: Surah Ikhlas is equivalent to the virtue of one-third  of the 
Qur'an. 

'Tabarekellezi bi Yedihilmulk, Surah, on the other hand, is on the side of those who recite it a lot on the Day of Judgment, and works to 
prevent the wrath of Allahu ta'ala. 
562-) Abu Huraira narrates: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Whoever says, there is no god but Allah, one 
hundred times a day, and there is no equal or equal to him. The property belongs to him, praise belongs to him. If he says he is 
omnipotent, he will receive as many rewards as freeing ten slaves, a hundred good deeds will be written in his notebook, and a hundred 
bad deeds will be erased. This prayer will be a shelter that protects him from demons on the Day of Judgment. Except for those who 
recite this prayer more than that person per day, no one can come to the place of the apocalypse with a better deed than that." Bukhari, 
Badul-Halk,  59/11; Muslim, ez-Zikr  wa'd-Dua,  48/28. 
563-) Abu Hurayra narrates: Whoever says, "O Allah, I will praise you for your deficiencies" a hundred times a day, will be forgiven if 
he has sins as much as the foam of the sea. Bukhari, Du'avât, 80/65; Muslim, ez-Zikr  ve'd Dua, 48/28. 

564-) From Abu Hurayra: Whoever says "Subhanallah" thirty-three  times, "alhamdulillah" thirty-three  times, "Allahu akbar" thirty-three  
times after every prayer, and says, "There is no god but Allah, there is no equal or like him. If he completes his face by saying, “The 
property belongs to him, all praise belongs to him, he is omnipotent”, his sins will be forgiven even if they are as much as the foam of the 
sea. Muslim, Masâcid, 5/146 (as merfu). 
565-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: al-Bakÿyatüssalihâtü  "beneficial deeds that will remain" Surah Al-Kahf;  18/46. What is meant 
by the verse of the verse, the beneficial action that will remain forever, is the servant's saying, 'Allahu akbar, subhanallah, la ilaha 

illallah velâ havle velâ quwwa illâ billah'. 

566-) Ziyad b. From Abi Ziyad: Abudderda': Let me inform you of the best of your deeds, the one that will raise your rank the most, I 
am the purest in the sight of Allah, and better deeds for you than spending gold and silver, hitting your enemy on the battlefield and 
beating their necks. is it?» said. Companions: Yes.” He said: "It is to remember ta'ala." his father, Muaz b. Cebel: "No other deed of 
the son of Adam, other than the dhikr of Allah, can save him from Allah's punishment." said. 

Tirmidhi, Da'avât, 45/6 (as merfu); Ibn Mace, Ebed, 33/53. 
567-) Rifaa b. Kafi' narrates: We were praying behind the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). When Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) 
stood up from ruku, he said “semi-Allahu  limen hamideh”. Another man from the back said, "Rabbena Velekel hamd, hamden katiren, 
tayyiben, blessed fihi = O our Lord, abundant, free from hypocrisy and blessed praise belongs to you." After the prayer, the Messenger 
of Allah (may peace be upon him) asked: Who was it who said that a moment ago?' she asked. Man: It was me, O Messenger of Allah! 
said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I saw thirty-odd  angels, all of them rushing to write it first.” 
Buhari Adhan 10/126, 568-) From Abu Hurayra: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "There is a mustjab prayer that every prophet 
makes. And I want to leave my prayer to the hereafter—to  intercede for my ummah in the next world." Bukhari, Da'avât, 80/1; Muslim, 
faith, 1/334. 

569-) Yahya b. Said: According to what he heard, the Prophet used to pray: "O Allah, who created the mornings, allocated the 
night for sleeping, and governs the sun and the moon according to a certain account, give me the opportunity to fulfill my debt, do 
not make me fall into poverty, do not make me fall into poverty, my ear, my strength and my strength. be a shareholder of going your 
way.» Ibn Abdilber says: "Malik's narrators did not differ in the document or the text of this hadith." Mursal is a hadith. Muslim b. Yesar 
is natural. 
570-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When you pray; If you wish, my God, forgive me, and if you wish, my 
God, have mercy on me!” don't say. Because Allah Almighty is free to do what He wills, no one can force him.” Bukhari, Da'avât, 
80/21; Muslim, ez-Zikr  wa'd-Dua,  48/9. 
571-) Abu Hurayra narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "One of you 

His prayer will be accepted as long as he does not hurry by saying, "I did it but it was not accepted." Bukhari, Da'avât, 80/22; Muslim, ez-Zikr ve'd-Dua,  48/90 572-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Our Lord, with His mercy, manifests on the world every night in the last third of the night: Who is praying? , let me accept immediately, who makes a request, let me give it right away, who asks for forgiveness, let me forgive him immediately?» commands.» Bukhari, Da'avât, 97/35; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/168. 
573-) Muhammed b. Abraham b. Haris et-Taymi  narrates: Hadrat Aisha, the mother of the believers, told: "I was sleeping next to 
the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). At night, I felt that he was not in bed, I felt it with my hand, my hand touched his feet. He was in 
prostration and was praying: “I seek refuge in your consent from anger and forgiveness from your punishment. I seek refuge in you 
again. I am incapable of praising you properly, you are whatever you consider yourself worthy of praise.” Ibn Abdilber says: "Malik's 
narrators did not disagree on his being mursal. al-A'rec  -Abu Hurayra-Aisha is musnad with its deed. 

574-) Talha b. Ubeydullah b. From Keriz: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "The most virtuous prayers are done 
in Arafat. The most virtuous prayer that I and the prophets before me made is this: There is no god but Allah, He is one in every way, He 
has no partner or like. Tirmidhi, Da'avât, 45/122 (Amr b. Shuayb -as his father -as a mere deed with his grandfather). 

575-) Abdullah b. From Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to teach his Companions as if he were teaching a surah from the 
Qur'an: "O Allah, I seek refuge in you from the torment of Hell. I seek refuge in you from the torment of the grave. 
Seek refuge in you from the test of the Dajjal, from the affliction of the world and the grave.” Muslim, Masâcid, 5/134. 
576-) Abdullah b. Abbas: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got up for prayer at midnight, he used to pray: "O Allah, praise be to you. 
You are the light of the heavens and the earth. All praise is for you. You are the ruler of the heavens and the earth, all praise belongs to 
you. You are the Lord of the earth, the heavens and both, you are true, your word is true, your promise is true, and meeting you 
(resurrection after death) is true. Heaven is true, Hell is true, Apocalypse is true; it will surely happen. My God, I surrendered to you, I 
believed in you, I trusted you, I became attached to you, I fought my enemy with the knowledge you gave me and I ruled according to your 
orders. Forgive my sins that I have done and will do, secret and open. You are my god, there is no god but you.” Bukhari, Tahajjud, 19/1; 
Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/199. 

577-) Jabir b. Atîk's grandson Abdullah b. Abdullah narrates: Abdullah b. Omar stopped by the home of the sons of Muawiya in one of 
the villages of Medina. They said to them: Do you know where the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed in your mosque?' she asked. I 
told him: Yes, I know.' I pointed to a corner. This time: Do you know what the three prayers he made there were?» said. When I said: 
"Yes," he said: "Well then, tell me." Me: I prayed that the enemies would not be victorious against them, that Allah Almighty would not 
discipline them with famine and hunger. These two are given. He prayed that they would not cause discord among themselves, but this 
was not accepted," he replied, "You have spoken the truth." From Omar: But murder will never end among believers until the Day of 
Judgment. Sa'd b. He came from Ebi Vakkas as a merfuu. Muslim, Fitan, 52/30 578-) Zayd b. The spouse used to say: Every person who 
prays is in one of three situations: Either his prayer is accepted, or it is accepted in the future, or his prayer is atonement for his sins. Ibn 
Abdilber says: Such narrations are not based on opinion and ijtihad, they were definitely heard from the Prophet 579-) Abdullah b. From 
Dinar: While I was praying, I was pointing with the fingers of my hands, Abdullah b. When Ömer saw me like this, he prevented me from 
pointing with my fingers. He came from Abu Hurayra as a merfu. Tirmidhi, Da'avât, 45/104; Nesai, Sehv, 13/37. 

580-) Yahya b. From Said: Said b. Museyyeb, raising his hands up, said: "The deceased person's rank rises thanks to the prayer of his remaining child." he would say. Ibn Abdilber says: Such narrations cannot be known by opinion and ijtihad, so they have been mentioned elsewhere as hadith. 581-) Hisham b. Urwa narrates from his father: This verse is Isra. 17/110 was revealed about prayer: Do not raise your voice in prayer, and do not lower your voice too low. Let it be between the two.” Isra, 17/110 582-) From Yahya: Imam-i  Malik was asked whether to pray in obligatory prayers. “There is nothing wrong with doing it,” he said. 583-) From Imam-i  Malik; According to what I heard, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed as follows; “My God! I ask You to do good deeds, to abandon evil, to love the poor. When you wish to cause strife among people, bring my soul back to itself without wrinkling it.” In a hadith, it came from Ibn Abbas as merfu. Tirmidhi, Tafsîr, 44/38.Bukhari, Da'avât, 80/17 584-) From Imam-i  Malik: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he calls people to the right path, the reward of those who follow him gets rewarded. This reward given to him does not decrease anything from the rewards of others. Whoever invites him to go astray, he will be sinned as much as the sin of those who follow it. 
This does not take anything away from their sins.” He came from Abu Hurayra as a merfu. Muslim, Um, 47/16. 
Those who are instrumental in doing useful deeds receive as much reward and reward as those who do useful works. Those who cause evil also gain sin as much as those who do evil themselves. The rewards of those who do good and evil will never decrease the rewards of those who do good and evil. 585-) Imam-i  Malike Abdullah b. It is narrated that Umar prayed as follows: "O Allah! Make me one of the guides of the muttaqites.” 586-) According to what is reported to Imam-i  Malik, Abudarda would get up at midnight and say: "Eyes are asleep, the stars have set, whereas you are still alive and you keep the heavens and earth standing." 
587-) From Abdullah as-Sunabihi:  The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When the sun rises, the devil is with him. When the sun rises, the devil leaves him. Then, when the sun is directly overhead, the devil is with the sun again. When the sun leaves the hill, the devil leaves from it. When the sun sets, the devil reunites with him, and when it sets, he leaves.” That is why the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade performing supererogatory prayers during these three times. Nesai, Mevakît, 6/31; Ibn Mace, Iqamatu's-Salat,  5/148; Shafii, Risale, no: 588-) Hisham b. Urwa narrates from his father: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "At sunrise, delay your prayer until the sun rises. And when it starts to set, delay your prayer until it sinks completely.” Bukhari, Mevakîtu's-Salat,  9/30 (as mawsul); Muslim, Salatu'l Musafirîn, 51/291 589-) Alâ b. Abdurrahman narrates: In the afternoon, Enes b. We went to Malik. When we arrived, Enes got up and performed the afternoon prayer. When he finished his prayer, we told him that he had made it early. Explaining why he performed it so early, he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: "It is the prayer of hypocrites! They sit, they sit just as the sun goes down; When the devil is with the sun, they get up quickly and quickly pray four rak'ahs. And because the time is short, they cannot perform the glorifications.” Muslim, Masâcid, 5/195. 
590-) Abdullah b. Umar narrates that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do not wait for the 
sun to rise to perform the morning prayer and to set for the afternoon prayer." Bukhari, Mevakîtu's Salat, 9/31; 
Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/389; Shafii, Risale, no: 873. 
591-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade performing supererogatory prayers after the 
afternoon fard until the sun sets, and after the morning fard until the sun rises. Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/285; 
Shafii, Risale, no: 872 (He says that Bukhari also narrated it, but this is not true). 592-) Umar b. From Khattab: “Do not 
wait for the moment when the sun rises and sets to pray. For the devil is with the sun in its rising and setting.” That's 
why Hazrat Umar used to beat those who prayed during these hours. In this way, he narrated as merfu. His son, 
Abdullah, was a man of honor. Bukhari, Badul-Halk,  59/11 as part of a hadith); Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/290. 

593-) Sâib b. Yazid, Umar b. It is reported that Khattab saw beating those who came to pray after the afternoon 
prayer. 
594-) Cafer b. Muhammad transmits it from his father. The corpse of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa 
sallam) was washed without taking off his shirt. Ibn Abdilber says: "Muwatta narrators narrated it as mursal. Said b. 
Ufayr narrates from Aisha." 595-) 
Umm Atiyya al-Ansari  narrates: When my daughter passed away, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to us and said: 
Put sidr in her water three times or five times or more. "After the last wash, apply a large amount of camphor or a little 
bit of camphor. Let me know when you're done." When we had finished our work, we informed him, thereupon, giving us 
his izar (a kind of skirt worn from the waist down): "Wrap this." he commanded. 
Bukhari, Cevaiz, 23/7; Muslim, Cevaiz, 11/36. 
596-) Abdullah b. From Abu Bakr: Asma, daughter of Umays, washed her when Hazrat Abu Bakr died. Then to the 
immigrants who were there: I am fasting, it is very cold, should I take a bath?' she asked. And they said: No!» they 
replied. Shaybani, 305. Esma, daughter of Umays, mentioned in this hadith is the wife of Hazrat Abu Bakr. According to 
the Hanafi Madhhab, a woman can wash her husband. 597-) Imam-i  Malik heard some scholars say: If a woman dies, 
another woman to wash her, no one from her close relatives (mahram) or the husband of the deceased woman is not 
found, tayammum is done by wiping her face with earth. From Malik: If a man dies and only a woman is found to wash 
him, then he will be buried by making tayammum. 598-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to us, there is no definite way to 
wash a funeral. The important thing is to wash and clean it. 

599-) From Hadrat Aisha: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was shrouded in three layers of thin, white cloth woven 
from cotton. He was also not wearing a shirt or turban. Buhari, Cenaiz, 23/19; Muslim, Cenaiz, 11/45 601-) Yahya 

b. Said narrates: I heard that when Abu Bakr fell ill, he asked Hadrat Aisha how many layers of shroud the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was wrapped in. And he said: He was wrapped in three layers of thin, white shroud woven from cotton.” he replied. Thereupon, Hazrat Abu Bakr (red mud or 
glorified), pointing to the garment: Take this, wash it, find two more layers and shroud me with it.» said. Hadrat Aisha: With this old dress? When asked, Hazrat Abu Bakr said: The living need the new more than the dead. It doesn't have to be new to him, it's going to rot anyway." Bukhari, Cenaiz, 23/94. 602-) Abdullah b. Amr b. As narrates: The dead person is shrouded in a shirt, an izar (skirt), and a third layer of cloth over them. If these three layers are not found but only one layer of shroud is found, it will be enough. Shaybani 305 603-) From Ibn Shihab: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Hadrat Abu Bakr and Hadrat Umar would walk in front of the funeral. Later caliphs and Abdullah b. Omar used to walk in front of the funeral in the same way. Ibn Abdilber says: "This hadith is mursal in this way according to the narrators in Muwatta." It has been narrated from Ibn Omar: (Abu Davud, Cenaiz, 20/44; Tirmidhi, Cenaiz, 8/26; Nesai, Cenaiz, 21/56; ÿbn Mace, Cenaiz, 6/16). See also ÿeybanî, 307 604-) Abdullah b. From Rebia, son of Hedir: I saw that Hazrat Umar was leading the congregation in front of the funeral of Aisha (radiyallahu anha), daughter of Jahsh. ÿeybanî, 308 605-) Hisham b. From Urve: I used to see my father at the front at every funeral. Later, he would come to the Baki cemetery and sit there until the last of the funeral. 606-) Ibn Shihab; "Walking behind the corpse is not in accordance with the sunnah." he said. 
607-) Hisham b. From Urwa: Asma, the daughter of Hazrat Abu Bakr, to her family: When I die, steam my shroud, then apply hanut (fragrant things) to me. He willed that I should not hang my shroud, and do not attend my funeral with a torch. 
608-) Said b. From Abu Said al-Makburi:  After his death, Abu Huraira bequeathed not to attend his funeral with a torch. He also says on this subject: "I have heard that Imam-i  Malik does not welcome such things." Shaybani, 
309. 
609-) Abu Huraira narrates: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said that the king of Abyssinia, Eshama (Abyssinia) The day his Negus) died, he informed his companions about the situation. They immediately went to the prayer hall and became pure. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) led Ashama’s prayer with four takbirs. Bukhari, Cenaiz, 23/4; Muslim Cenaiz, 11/62. 
610-) Hunayfin's grandson, Abu Umame b. Sahl narrates: A poor woman fell ill, and the situation was immediately reported to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Prophet used to visit the poor and ask about their condition and memories. This time: Let me know when you surrender your soul.” he commanded. They prepared the funeral at night, but they did not find it appropriate to disturb the Prophet at that hour and waited for the morning. In the morning, they were reported to the Prophet. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Didn’t I say inform me?” When the Companions shouted: O Messenger of Allah! We did not find it appropriate to wake you up and take you to the funeral at night.” they replied. Thereupon, they made rows and prayed in congregation with four takbirs. Ibn Abdilber says: "There was no objection to Malik in the Muwatta in the formation of this hadith (murse)." 611-) Imam-i  Malik asked Ibn Hisham what should a person who could not reach the full funeral prayer should do. He also says, "He misses the part he can't reach." he replied. (11/a)  This accident is made only by taking takbirs; Prayers are not read 612-) Abu Said al-Makburi  tells: Abu Hurayra: "How do you pray at the funeral prayer?" I asked. Abu Huraira: Let me explain.” He said and continued as follows: I will accompany him from the house where the funeral was taken. When he is placed on his musalla (stone), I say takbir, praise Allah (subhanake), send blessings on the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam), and then recite the following prayer: "My God, he is your servant, the sons of your servant and a concubine. He would testify that there is no god but you, and that Muhammad is your servant and messenger. You know his situation better. O Allah, if he is a good person, seek his goodness, if he is a bad person, forgive his bad deeds. O Allah, do not deprive us of its reward, and do not mislead us after that.” ÿeybanî, 311 613-) Said b. Musayyeb tells: I was performing the funeral prayer of a child who was not yet responsible behind Abu Huraira. I heard Abu Huraira praying: "O Allah, protect him from the torment of the grave!" 
There should be no torment in the grave for this child who is not taxpayer. The reason why Abu Huraira prayed in this way was to indicate 
the severity of the torment in the grave. 
614-) Nafi tells; Abdullah b. Omar would not recite anything from the Qur'an during his funeral prayers. 
615-) Huveytib's grandson Abdurrahman b. Ebî Sufyan's freedman Muhammed b. From Ebi Harmale: Ebi 
When Salama's daughter Zeynep died, Tariq was the governor of Medina. The funeral of Aisha (radiyallahu anha) was brought right after the 
morning prayer. He was buried in the Baki Cemetery. Tariq had led the morning prayer earlier that day so that the funeral would not be late. 
Abi Harmale said: Abdullah b. I heard Umar say to his family: "Either you can pray for your funeral now or delay it until the sun rises." 

616-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar said, "If the afternoon and morning prayers are performed on time, the funeral prayer cannot be performed after these times." ÿeybanî, 313. 617-) Ömer b. Nadr, the freed man of Ubeydullah, narrates: Hazrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah, Sa'd b. Abi Waqqas 
when he passed away, he would send his body to the mosque to pray; He asked them to bring him with him! It was not very 
pleasant for the Ashaba to be taken to the masjid. Upon this, Hadrat Aisha said: How quickly people change! 
Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam), Suhayl b. Did he pray Beyda's prayer in a place other than the mosque?' said. Ibn 
Abdilber says: "In Muwatta, according to most of the narrators, it is munkati in this way." Muslim (Cenaiz, 11/99) narrates it as 
mawsul. 
618-) Abdullah b. Umar: "Umar b. Khattab's funeral prayer was held in the mosque. ÿeybanî, 314. 619-) From Imam-i  Malik: 
According to what I heard, Osman b. Affan, Abdullah b. Umar and Abu Huraira used to perform their funeral prayers in groups of 
men and women in Medina. Men would line up behind the imam and women would line up behind them. 

620-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar used to make his voice heard to the people next to him while saluting at the funeral prayer. 
621-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar: "A funeral prayer cannot be performed without wudu." he would say. 
622-) From Yahya: Imam-i  Malik: I have not witnessed any of the people of knowledge say anything about the child of adultery 
(bastard) and his mother's funeral prayers not to be performed.» I heard you say. 623-) Imam-i  Malik narrates: According to what I 
heard, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed away on Monday. He was buried on Tuesday. The Companions prayed individually, 
without a congregation. No one became an imam for them. Some of the Companions said, "Let's bury him next to the pulpit, and 
some in Baki' cemetery." Just at this time, Abu Bakr es-Siddiq  came. I said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) 
said: "There is no prophet who is not buried where he surrendered his soul." I heard you say," he said. A grave was immediately dug 
there. While the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was bathing, they wanted to take off his shirt. "Do not take off the 
shirt!" they heard a voice. Thus, the corpse was washed with the shirt on it. Ibn Abdilber says: "I do not know in any way that this 
hadith was narrated in this way. It has only a statement since it reached Malik." 

624-) Hisham b. Urwa narrates from his father: There were two men in Medina. One of them would build a sarcophagus for the graves 
he dug, the other would not. When the Prophet died, the Companions said: "Whichever comes first, let him dig the grave of the 
Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)." they said. First came the one who made a tomb (grave pit) for the graves he had 
dug. Thus, the tomb of the Prophet was also entombed. Ibn Mace, Cenaiz, 6/40 (From Ibn Abbaa). 
625-) Umm Salama, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), said: "Until I heard the sound of digging, I could 
not believe that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed away." Ibn Abdilber says: "I know this hadith directly from Aisha, not from Ummu 
Salama." 
626-) Yahya b. From Said: Hazrat Aisha said: I dreamed that three moons had fallen in my room. Thereupon, I immediately 
told Hadrat Abu Bakr about my dream. When (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) died, he was buried in my room. Hadrat Abu Bakr said 
to me: One of the months you have seen in your dreams and the best one! said. 627-) Imam-i  Malik narrates from many reliable 
people: Sa'd b. Ebi Vakkas and Amr b. Nufayl's grandson Said b. Zayd died in Aqiq near Madinah. Thereupon, their corpses were 
brought to Medina and buried there. 

628-) Hisham b. Urve narrates from his father: I do not want my grave to be in Baki cemetery. It is more pleasant for me to be 
buried elsewhere than to be buried there. Because mine will either be in the place of a cruel person, which I do not want to be 
with him, or it will be in the place of a righteous person, and I will not be willing to have his bones removed for me. Since the place in 
the Baki cemetery is limited, the last graves dug were often an old burial place. This is what is meant by the above-mentioned  situation. 

629-) Ali b. Abi Talib narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to stand up when the funeral passed and sit when it 
passed. Muslim, Cenaiz, 11/82. See also Shaybani, 310. 630-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Ali b. Abi Talib 
would lay his head on the graves and lie down on them. 
Malik said: It is forbidden to sit on graves. In my opinion, this ban must be in order not to pollute the graves. 

631-) Sahl b. From Abu Umama, son of Hunayf: We will attend the funeral, until the whole congregation comes to the grave. 
we would not sit 

632-) Jabir b. Atik narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abdullah b. Constant had come to visit, and found him unconscious. He 
called, but got no answer. Thereupon, he said: "Inna lillahi wa inna ilayhi rajiun = We live for Allah and to earn His pleasure, we will 
definitely meet him again." He said: "Abu Rabi, we could not catch up with you!" he added. Seeing the situation, the women 
immediately began to shout and cry. 
Jabir was also trying to silence them. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Do not touch them! They should 
not cry only when they are relieved.” Those who were there; What does it mean to relax, O Messenger of Allah?" When the 
Prophet asked: When he delivered his soul! he replied. Abdullah b. Sabit's daughter: I would definitely want you to be a martyr, 
because you had completed your preparations for the expedition.» When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Allah gives everyone 
according to his intention. Who do you accept as martyrs?' he commanded. Those there: Those who died in the way of Allah!» they 
replied. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied to them as follows: 

He found: “There are seven types of martyrs apart from those who die in the way of Allah: a martyr who dies from the disease of Taun, a martyr who drowns in water, and a martyr who dies from the disease of zatu'l-cenb.  It is a martyr who dies from stomachache, a martyr who dies in a fire, a martyr who dies under ruins, a woman who dies in childbirth is a martyr.” Abu Davud, Cenaiz, 20/10, Nesai, Cenaiz, 21/14. The seven groups of people who were reported to have been martyred by the sheriff are those who practice Islam. Otherwise, only those who are Muslim but do not follow the orders of Islam cannot attain this holy degree. The rank of martyrdom is a reward given by Allah to His beloved servants. Had he not suffered from one of the causes of death reported in the hadith, he would have served God many more times and would have done good deeds. As such causes of death cut off his life and deprive him of his worship, Allah rewards him with the degree of martyrdom. 633-) Abdurrahman's daughter Amre narrates: To Hazrat Aisha, the mother of the believers, Abdullah b. Omar: Because of his crying, the dead will be punished.» Hazrat Aisha said: May Allah forgive Abu Abdurrahman, he does not lie, but either forgot or made a mistake. Once, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stopped by a Jewish family, they were crying for a deceased family member. Thereupon, the Prophet said: "You are crying for him, but right now he is being tortured in his grave." he commanded. Bukhari, Cenaiz, 23/33; Muslim, Cenaiz, 11/25. See also Shaybani, 320 Jewish women were tortured in their graves, not because the living 
were crying for him, as Abu Abdurrahman understood, but because he died as a Jew by not accepting Islam. 
634-) Abu Hurayra narrates that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A Muslim whose three children die will not suffer the torment of Hell. However, as per Allah's oath (either passing there or staying in Hell for a little while), he will feel the torment.” Bukhari, Cenaiz, 23/6; Muslim, al-Birr  ve's-Sÿla,  45/150. What is meant by Allah's promise: "There is no one among you who will not fall into Hell. This is the final judgment of your Lord.” (Surah Maryam: 19/71) is the situation indicated in the verse above. 
635-) From Abu Nadr es-Salami:  The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Every Muslim whose three children have died, if he has been patient with what happened only for the sake of Allah, these children will protect him as a shield against Hell." Hearing this, a woman there said: Does the same thing happen to a person whose two children die, O Messenger of Allah? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "It will happen to those whose two children die." Muslim, al-Birr  ve's-Sÿla,  45/152 636-) Abu Hurayra narrates that the Prophet said: "If a believer is patient with the disasters that befall his children and relatives until he dies, he will have no sin." 
637-) Muhammed b. Abu Bakr's grandson Abdurrahman b. From Qasim: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Muslims should look at the calamities that befell me and find strength against the calamities they face." 638-) From Umm Salamah: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Whoever suffers a calamity, as Allahu ta'ala commands: "We live for Allah and to earn His pleasure. We will surely come to his presence again. O God, give me the reward of this calamity, give me something better than what I lost! If he prays, Allah will definitely accept his prayer.” When Abu Salamah passed away, I prayed in this way. Then I said to myself: "Who could be better than Abu Salama?" I expressed my despair. It means there is. When Abu Salama passed away, Allah Almighty blessed me to marry the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Muslim, Cenaiz, 11/4 639-) Kasÿm b. Muhammad narrates: My wife passed away, Muhammad b. Ka'b al-Kurazi  came to me and told me the following: There was a learned, understanding, religious mujtahid from the sons of Israel. It also had a wife. They loved each other very much. One day the woman died. The man was very upset; He withdrew from the house because of his sadness, and closed the door, completely estranged from the public, so that no one could enter or leave his house. A woman who heard about this situation came to the doorman and said: I have lost my job to him, I will ask a fatwa, but I must definitely talk to him!' said. Even though everyone who comes to the door turns and leaves, the woman does not leave the door and says: I definitely have to talk to her!' he insisted. By informing the person inside, the doorman says: There is a woman here, she wants to ask you something and she says I must meet. He still hasn't left the door, even though everyone has dispersed.” said. Thereupon, the person whose wife passed away said: Get in!” he ordered. The woman entered. I have come to consult you about something!” Diy began to speak. Man: What is it?' said. The woman told: I had bought an ornament (borrowed) from a woman of my neighbors. Sometimes I would wear it and sometimes I would lend it to others. After a while, the owner asked me to return this jewellery. Shall I give it back?" Person: Yes, you must give it!» ' she replied, 'But that's a long time for me!' replied the Man: You must give as you receive.' he said, cut it off. Woman: If that is the case, why do you feel so sorry for what Allahu ta'ala lent to you and then rightfully took back?' He stated his main purpose. The person took a lesson from the situation and saw the truth through the woman. 
640-) From Abdurrahman's daughter Amre: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed men and women who robbed the graves. Ibn Abdilber says: "It is narrated from Aisha as musnad." 
641-) From Hadrat Aisha: Just as it is a sin to break any bone of a living Muslim, it is also a sin to break the bone of a dead Muslim. Abu Dawud, Cenaiz, 20/58; Ibn Majah, 6/63. 
642-) From Hadrat Aisha: Before her death, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) leaned on my chest, I listened and 
prayed: "O Allah, forgive me, have mercy on me and bring me to the highest rank." Bukhari, Maghazi, 64/83; 
Muslim, Fedâilu's-Sahâbe,  44/85. 643-) It has been reached Imam-i  Malik that Hadrat Aisha said: "No prophet has 
been left free to choose whether to die or not." When I heard that he was praying: "My God, bring me to the highest 
rank" after these words, I realized that he would die. Bukhari, Maghazi, 64/83; Muslim, Fedâilu's-Sahâbe,  44/87. 

644-) Abdullah b. Umar relates that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When one of 
you dies, his rank is shown to him in the morning and in the evening. If it is in Paradise, as the people of Paradise, if 
it is in Hell, as the people of Hell... It is said: Here is where you will stay until the Day of Judgment.» Buhari, Cenaiz, 
23/90; Muslim, Paradise, 51/56. 
645-) Abu Huraira narrated that the Prophet said: "The whole body of the son of Adam rots in the soil, except for 
the coccyx. Because Adam's son was formed from the coccyx, and he will come into being from there again.» 
Muslim, Fitan, 52/142. 
646-) Ka'b b. Malik narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The soul of a believer is like a bird. After he 
dies, he eats and drinks from the trees of heaven until the day he is resurrected.” Nesai, Cenaiz, 21/117; Ibn 
Mace, Zuhd, 37/32 647-) Abu Huraira narrates that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: 
"Allah Almighty says: If my servant likes to meet me, I like to meet him, if my servant does not want to meet me, I 
also like to meet him. I don't want to meet you." Bukhari, Tawhid, 97/35. 

648-) Abu Hurayra narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A man who did not do any good in his life 
bequeathed to his family that his body be cremated after his death, and half of his ashes be scattered on the land 
and half in the sea. I swear by Allah that if he is able to seize it, he will torment him in a way he has never experienced 
in any of the worlds. When the man died, his family kept his will. Thereupon, Allah Almighty ordered the land, the 
ashes of the man were collected immediately, he also ordered the seas, and those in the sea were also gathered. 
Then to the man: Why did you do that?' she asked. Man: You know better, but I did it out of fear of you!» When I 
replied, he forgave the man.” Bukhari, Tawhid, 976/35; Muslim, Tawba, 49/24. 

649-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Everyone is born in the 
nature of Islam, just like a camel's calf is born from its mother. Later his family made him a Jew or a Christian. 
Is it possible to see a deficiency in a newborn camel? Those who were there said to the Prophet: What do you say 
about the child who died while he was still a sabi? they asked. Our Prophet: Allah knows best what they do! he 
replied. Bukhari, Kader, 82/3; Muslim, Destiny, 46/24. —ç  mfûn P9./22-. Muslim, Fitan, 52/53. 

650-) From Abu Hurayra: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) said: "The Hour will not come 
until a person stops by someone's grave and says, 'I wish I were in this dead person's place,'" Bukhari, fitan, 
92/22; Muslim fitan, 52/53 651-) Abu Qatada b. Rib'i narrated: A funeral was passing by the Messenger of Allah 
(sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam): He was saved and he was saved.' he commanded. Those with him: What does 
that mean, O Messenger of Allah?' When he was asked, the Prophet said: "A believer, on the other hand, has 
been saved from the torments and torments of the world and attained Allah's mercy. If he is a sinner, all that is left 
of the world, countries, trees and animals are saved from him.” Bukhari, rikak, 81/42; Muslim, cenaiz, 11/61 652-) 
Ömer b. From Abu Nadr, the freedman of Ubeydullah: Osman b. When Maz'un died, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 
attended his funeral and said: You left without getting involved in any evil. Ibn Abdilber related this hadith as a 
descendant of Aisha 653-) Hadrat Aisha narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got up one night, put on his clothes 
and went out. I immediately told my concubine, Berire, to follow. He went as far as the Baki cemetery, stopped for a 
while at a place quite close to it, and then came back. Berire came before him and informed me of the situation. I 
didn't say anything to him until morning. Recalling what happened later, he said: "I was sent to pray for those buried 
in the Baki cemetery." Nesai, Cenaiz, 21/103. 

654-) From Abu Huraira: Be quick to remove your corpses. If the deceased is a good person, you will relieve him 
as soon as possible, and if he is a bad person, you will take the burden off your shoulders. Ibn Abdilber says: 
"Most of the narrators narrated it in this way. -From Khudri: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) 
said: "Zakat does not fall on less than five camels, zakat does not fall on silver that does not cost two hundred 
dirhams (595 gr.), less than three hundred sa (a hour is 2.176 gr). As soon as a tithe falls on the grain that is 
Bukhari, Zakat, 24/32; Muslim, Zakat, 12/1. 

656-) Abu Said al-Khudri  narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Three hundred 

There is no tithe for dates less than sa, no zakat is due on silver that does not reach two hundred dirhams, and zakat does not fall on camels less than five camels.” Bukhari, Zakat, 24/42. See also According to Shaybani, 325 Hanife, the nisab condition is not sought for products subject to ushra, zakat is paid whether the product is small or large. 657-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Umar b. Abdulaziz sent the following edict regarding zakat to his governor in Dimash. “Zakat is taken from agricultural produce, money and livestock (camel, cattle, sheep).” Imam-i  Malik says on this subject: Zakat is taken from three kinds of things: agricultural products, money and animals (camel, cattle, sheep). 658-) Zubayr's freedman Muhammad b. From Uqba: Kasÿm b. I asked Muhammad if zakat would be deducted from the property I received in return for my slave, with whom I had made a contract for release, in exchange for a large property. November replied: Hadrat Abu Bakr would not receive zakat on a property until a year passed. b. Muhammad tells: To everyone who receives Abu Bakr's pension: "Do you have any property for which zakat is due?" He asks, if he answered "yes", he would cut off zakat from his salary, and if he answered "no", he would pay his entire salary to himself without taking anything. ÿeybanî, 327 659-) Kudame's daughter Aisha is narrating from her father. Osman b. When I went to Affan to collect my pension: "Do you have any property for which zakat is obligatory?" he asked. If I say "yes", the amount of zakat will be deducted from my salary, "no!" If I said that, he would give my salary without interruption. Malik narrates as Mevkuf. Dârakutni says: "As a matter of fact, it is Mevkuf, as in Muvatta. See also. ÿeybanî, 328 660-) Abdullah bin Ömer: Zakat does not fall on a property until a year passes. ÿeybanî, 326 661-) From Ibn ÿihab: From monthly salary Muaviye ibn Abi Sufyan was the first to receive zakat 662-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to the tradition accepted and practiced unanimously among us Medinans, twenty dinars (85 gr.) in gold and two hundred dirhams (595 gr.) in silver. 663-) From Imam-i  Malik: Zakat is not deducted on gold that is less than twenty in weight but completes twenty dinars in weight. 664-) Imam-i  Malik says: If eight dirhams are counted as one dinar in his country, for a man who has one hundred and sixty dirhams, zakat is deducted. zakat is not due for a man in a state. ü In order for zakat to be paid, the money in his hand must be worth either twenty dinars of gold or two hundred dirhams of silver. 665-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man with five dinars makes it work, and if this money is equal to the nisab of zakat within a year, the man will receive zakat. If there is only one day left to pass a year on this property, or if one day passes, he gives zakat as soon as the year is completed. He gives zakat for the second year exactly one year after the first year. 666-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man with ten dinars trades with it, if this money rises to twenty dinars a year later, he has to pay zakat for it, he does not have to wait another year after reaching the nisab. Because the money that did not reach zakat (nisab) became zakat after exactly one year, that is, one year has passed since. He gives the zakat of the second year one year after giving the zakat of the first year. 667-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to the alliance of us people of Medina, until one year after the owner's possession, whether a little or a lot, he will be freed from the earnings of the slaves, their wages, the rent of the dwellings and the mukatep: He will be freed from his master, on the condition that he pays a certain price within a certain period of time. contracting slave. Zakat is not paid from the contract price. 668-) From Imam-i  Malik: If a share of a person who has gold and silver in common is worth twenty dinars of gold or two hundred dirhams of silver, zakat is due. He does not give zakat whose share is not equal to zakat (nisaba). Shares are subject to zakat, but if everyone's share is different, then the share of each partner is determined and zakat is received accordingly. Because the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The zakat is not deducted on property that is less than two hundred dirhams worth of silver." Malik said that this was the best judgment he heard about the above-mentioned  issues. 
669-) Imam-i  Malik states the following about someone who will receive money from other people: He should collect the amount of gold or silver money from other people and pay zakat for all of them. 670-) From Imam-i  Malik: A person who has wealth in gold or silver does not have to give zakat until one year has passed from the day he gained this wealth. 
671-) Rabia b. Abi Abdurrahman reports that he heard from some: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) granted the right to operate the Kabeliyye mines, which is located in the Far' area between Nahle and Madinah, and is a five-day  distance from Madinah, to Bilal b. He gave it to Haris al-Muzeni.  On that day, nothing but zakat is still taken from these mines. According to the Hanafi Sect, twenty percent (khums) zakat is paid from the mines. 672-) Imam-i  Malik says about the zakat of mines: Allah knows 
better, but in my opinion, zakat does not fall on the mines unless the value of the mined mines reaches twenty dinars or two 
hundred dirhams of silver. 
When this amount is reached, zakat is taken. As the amount of mined increases and the mine continues to be mined, zakat continues to be calculated. If the mine is cut for a while; If there is a dead end and then it continues to come out again, zakat is calculated as if it was the first time. 673-) From Imam-i  Malik: Mines are like agricultural products; The wealth obtained is taken as zakat itself. It is not expected that a year will pass after the goods extracted from the mines as well as the crops obtained from agriculture, Shaybai, 339 674-) Abu Hurayra said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: .» 675-) Imam-i  Malik says the following on this subject; According to the consensus of us people of Madinah and what I heard from scholars, treasure is the property that ancient tribes buried and we found by chance. There is no burden to find a treasure, it does not require a great deal of work and 
equipment. If it requires a capital, it imposes a great burden on people, and despite this, sometimes it is found, sometimes the labor is wasted by not being found, if it goes to waste, it is no longer a treasure. 
676-) Abdurrahman b. He narrates his muscle from his father: Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), used to look after the orphaned daughters of her brother in her home. The girls had jewels for decoration, Hadrat Aisha would not give zakat for them. According to Shaybani, 329 Abu Hanifa, zakat is paid only for gold and silver trinkets, and orphans do not pay zakat for these goods. 677-) Nafi' reports: Abdullah b. Umar would wear gold jewelry to his daughters and concubines and would not give their 
zakat. 678-) Regarding the zakat of ornaments, Imam-i  Malik says: A person who has gold bullion, gold or silver jewellery, if he does not use them, pays zakat over one out of forty every year. He continues to give zakat until it falls below the nisab amount of zakat, which is twenty dinars in gold or two hundred dirhams of silver, and when it decreases from this amount, zakat is deducted. It is necessary to give zakat on the ornaments bought not to wear but to keep. Like the ornaments used, zakat is not deducted on the gold bullion and ornaments that the owner will use but are kept on hold due to the need for repair. 679-) From Imam-i  Malik: All ornaments such as pearls, musk and anber are exempt from zakat. ÿeybanî, 330. 680-) Ömer b. From Hattiab: Trade with the goods of orphans so that zakat does not consume them. 
681-) Abdurrahman b. Kasÿm reports from his father: Hadrat Aisha kept me and my brother as two orphans in her room and gave zakat on our property. 682-) From Imam-i  Malik: I heard that Hazrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to give the property of the orphans she cared for to those who would manage them on their behalf. 683-) Yahya b. Said tells: I bought some goods for the orphans of my brother, whom I looked after in my room, and then they were sold, and a lot of profit was made from this purchase. 684-) Imam-i  Malik states the following regarding this issue: There is no harm in the authorized guardian to trade with the property of orphans on their behalf. In the meantime, if he suffers harm—since  the intention is sincere—he  does not need to compensate. 685-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to me, the zakat of a person who dies without paying his zakat is given from one-third  of his remaining property, but no more can be set aside for zakat. In my opinion, since the zakat of the deceased is like a debt, it is paid before other wills. From the Malik: The situation we have described above is valid if the deceased bequeathed the payment of his zakat. If the deceased did not make his will to pay his zakat, then if the heirs pay his zakat, they will have done a good thing, and if they do not pay, they cannot be held responsible. 686-) Imam-i  Malik; According to a tradition practiced without dispute among us Medinans, a person who inherits money, household goods, house, slave and concubine pays zakat a year after they receive these goods and their price. He gives the zakat of the second year exactly one year after giving the first year. 687-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our practice, a person who inherits a fortune does not give his zakat until one year has passed since this property. 
688-) Saib b. From Yazid: Osman b. Affan used to say: this is the month of giving your zakat. Whoever owes the debt, pay it to the creditor. Thus, you can give the zakat of the receivables you have collected.” Shaybani, 323.Hanafi According to his sect, if the debtor pays the debt first, and if the nisab amount remains, he will be liable for zakat 689-) Eyyüp b. From Ebi Temime es-Sahtiyani:  Ömer b. Abdulaziz wrote that when one of his governors took zakat by force from the people, he should give back what he had taken to his owners, and that the zakat of the goods in the past years should be taken. Then, with a second edict, he demanded that only the last year's zakat be taken from them. Because they did not fully own the properties of the past years. 690-) "Yezid b. Husayfe says: Süleyman b. He said to Yesar: "Is zakat due to a person who has a property but owes as much as that property?" I asked. "No!" gave the answer. According to the Hanafi Sect, this person is not liable for zakat. 
691-) Imam-i  Malik states the following regarding the zakat of the debt: Since it is accepted unanimously among the people of Madinah, the creditor gives his zakat after he receives his property. If the debtor does not give it for years, then 
If he gives, the creditor gives zakat for a single year as soon as he receives his property. If it is so little that it does not reach the nisab it receives, zakat is not deducted. If the creditor has his own property other than what he has received, and if his property reaches the nisab with what he has taken from the debtor, then he gives his zakat. From the Malik: If he has no mat other than what he received from the debtor, and this does not reach the nisab, he does not give zakat. However, he determines the amount of what he has received from his debtor step by step, and gives his zakat when the total of what he has received reaches the nisab. Malik says: Whether the creditor spends what he has received from the debtor, if the total amount of what he has received reaches the price of twenty dinars (85 gr.) gold or two hundred dirhams (595 gr.) silver, he has to give his zakat. After that, he has to give his zakat by calculating how little or how much he has received. From the owner: We can provide the following evidence for the fact that a property that is receivable from someone else is bought after years, and that only one year's zakat is given: If a property with a man waits for years for trade and is eventually sold, only one year's zakat is given over the sale. A person who is in debt or owns belongings cannot pay the zakat of his debt and belongings with another property, the zakat of everything is paid from himself, the zakat of something cannot be paid with anything else. 692-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to the practice among us people of Madinah, if a man who is in debt has the goods to cover it and cash money that has reached the nisab, he gives zakat on the cash he has. If his possessions and current cash are only enough to meet his debt, then he will not pay zakat. When the cash money reaches the nisab after paying the debt, then he has to give his zakat. ÿeybani, 324 693-) Caliph Velid, Süleyman and Ömer b. During the reign of Abdulaziz, Zureyk b. 
Hayyan narrates: Omar b. Abdulaziz said to me, "Take zakat by paying attention to the coming Muslims and calculating until you have twenty dinars, one dinar in forty dinars, from your goods for trade. He ordered that if the amount you will receive as zakat has decreased to one third of dinars, do not take zakat from that property anymore. Take tribute from the trade goods of dhimmis (non-Muslims  in the Islamic country) by calculating up to ten dinars, one dinar for twenty dinars. If the tribute to be paid is less than one-third  of a dinar, do not take anything from that property. Give them a receipt (tax receipt) for the goods you bought, valid until the following year.” he wrote. 694-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to the alliance of us Medina'ils, the verdict regarding the condition of trade goods is as follows: If he pays zakat on his goods, buys goods, calico cloth and similar things with the goods he has, and then sells them before a year is up. does not give a new zakat after one year has passed since the day he gave his zakat. If he cannot sell his possessions for years; No matter how long after he sells, zakat will not be deducted (for the time that has passed by the way). When he sells, he gives zakat for only one year. 695-) From Imam-i  Malik: Again, according to the alliance of us Madina'ils, if a man buys wheat, dates or something similar for trade in exchange for gold or silver, after waiting for a year, when the money he buys reaches the quorum, he will sell it. time gives zakat. As soon as the zakat of such transactions is obtained, such as agricultural products and tree cutting, it is necessary to wait for a while. 696-) From Imam-i  Malik: If a man has some property to trade and this property does not provide the man with any income, he must give zakat. For this reason, he determines a month of the year, determines the trade goods, calculates how much of his goods reach the nisab and how much does not. If the sum of all of his possessions reaches the nisab, he pays his zakat. 697-) Imam-i  Malik says; Muslims who put the goods on the market and trade and those who do not are equal. Whether he can do business or not, every Muslim who trades gives zakat once a year. 
698-) Abdullah b. Dinar narrates: Abdullah b. I heard that Omar was asked what it was. He replied: It is a stock of goods without giving zakat. Shaybani, 341 699-) From Abu Huraira: Whoever leaves with him a property that he has not given his zakat on, on the Day of Judgment, that property will be turned into a dragon with two terrible black spots on its eyes and its eyebrows will turn white due to the abundance of its poison. I am your wealth that you have hoarded!» says. ÿeybanî, 342 700-) Imam-i  Malik, Ömer b. He read an edict of Khattab on zakat. The decree was as follows: In the name of Allah, the Most Merciful and Merciful! It is about zakat: one sheep is given as zakat for every fifth of the camels up to twenty-four.  For camels up to thirty-five  in number, one young camel that has reached the age of two is given as zakat. If a two-year-old  camel is not found, a three-year-old  male camel may be given instead. For camels aged between thirty-five  and forty-five,  a female camel that has reached the age of three is given as zakat. For camels aged between forty-five  and sixty, a strong four-year-old  camel is given as zakat. Zakat is given to a camel that has reached the age of five, from sixty to seventy-five  camels. Two camels that have reached the age of three are given as zakat for camels aged between seventy-five  and ninety, and two strong camels that have reached the age of four for camels from ninety to one hundred and twenty camels. After one hundred and twenty camels, one female camel that is three years old is given for every forty camels, and one camel that is four years old for every fifty camels. If the herds of grazing sheep reach forty, one sheep is given as zakat from forty to one hundred and twenty. Zakat is given to two sheep for the amount from one hundred to two hundred. Zakat is given to three sheep for those who have two to three hundred. as zakat unless the old people and the defective ones ask for the zakat officer. 
they are not accepted. Because of the fear of giving zakat, different genders should not be gathered together, and the same genders should not be separated. The two partners who mix their animals are paid in proportion to their property after zakat is taken from the total animals. When the amount of silver reaches two hundred dirhams, zakat is taken on one out of forty.” Abu Dawud, Zakat, 9/5; Tirmidhi, Zakat, 5/4 (hasen). 
701-) Taus al-Yemani  narrates: Muaz b. Cebel al-Ansari  took as zakat two-year-old  cattle and forty cattle at the age of three or four from thirty cattle. When fewer animals were brought to him, he did not receive zakat from them and said, "I have not heard anything from the Messenger of Allah on this matter. Let me ask the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)" and set off. Unfortunately, the Prophet passed away before Muadh came. 702-) Imam-i  Malik says: The best judgment I have heard about the zakat of sheep belonging to a man herded by two shepherds or herded by various shepherds in various towns is to determine the amount of all these sheep and give their zakat. The taxpayer who has gold and silver receivables from various persons does the same. He gives the zakat of the sum of what he has to receive. 703-) Imam-i  Malik also states the following regarding the zakat of a mixture of sheep and goats: A man with sheep and goats adds up their number, and if the sum of both exceeds the nisab of zakat, he gives his zakat. In this case, the determination of the nisab is possible by counting all of them as sheep. The measure of this is, as Hz. 704-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the number of sheep is high in a mixture of sheep and goats, the owner must give zakat from the sheep. The zakat officer also takes sheep from this man, who is supposed to give him sheep as zakat. If the goat is more than the sheep, it is taken from the goat. If the number of sheep and goats is equal, the zakat officer takes from whatever he wishes. 
705-) Arabian camels and long-necked  camels are the same. It is checked whether the sum of both of them reaches the nisab of zakat, if any, and judgment is given as if they were all the same breed of camel. If Arabian camels are more numerous than long-necked  camels, one Arabian camel is given as zakat. If the number of long-necked  camels is high, zakat is given from them. If the numbers of both are equal, the zakat officer takes what he wants. 706-) Imam-i  Malik says: Zakat is determined in this way in the mixtures of cattle and buffaloes. If the sum of both reaches the nisab of cattle, zakat is given. If the number of cattle is more than buffaloes, one cattle is given as zakat. If the number of buffaloes is high, ten are given. If the numbers of both are equal, the officer gets what he wants. If both sexes have nisab separately, they will receive zakat from both. 707-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person who later earns camels, sheep and cattle gives their zakat exactly one year after acquiring them. However, it is essential that there are no animals of the same breed that have reached the quorum amount before. The nisab (zakat) amount for these animals is one-fifth  for a camel, one-thirtieth  for a cattle, one-fortieth  for a sheep. If a man who owns five camels, thirty cattle and forty sheep later acquires more camels, cattle and sheep through purchase, donation or inheritance, he gives their zakat on the goods he has earned through donation, inheritance or purchase. Even if the previous owner gave the zakat of these animals, which he earned later, the previous owner has to give the zakat due to him again. It is like this: The man gives zakat on the silver he has, and then buys things from another man with the silver he gave his zakat. When he sells this item, he has to give zakat again. 
Even though the first owner gave the zakat of the same property yesterday and the second owner gave zakat today, this is the case. 708-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man who has enough sheep to reach the nisab of zakat buys enough sheep to reach the nisab, or if he inherits that many sheep, in this case, if a year passes over the sheep he bought or inherited, Zakat is not deducted. The situation is the same in the following example: The man has too many camels, sheep and cattle to reach the nisab counted in his hand. None of them reaches nisab alone. Zakat does not fall on them unless each of them fills the nisab separately. 709-) Imam-i  Malik says: A man has camels, cattle and sheep that fill the nisab of zakat. Later, he adds some more camels, cattle and sheep to them, in this case, he has to give the zakat of the goods he had in the past, while he has to give the ones he added later. Regarding the issues mentioned, Imam-i  Malik says: "These are the best judgments I have heard on these issues." 710-) Regarding the lack of the requested zakat, Imam-i  Malik says: It is necessary to give zakat to a three-year-old  female camel, a four-year-old,  or a five-year-old  camel. 711-) Imam-i  Malik says: When zakat is obligatory on the camels that carry water in the river and in the well to irrigate the fields, and the running oxen that draw water from the well, it is taken separately from each of them. Shaybani, 340 712-) From Imam-i  Malik: If the animals herded by the same shepherd, having only one man, sheltering in a corral, and watering from a spring belong to two people, and if everyone can recognize their property separately, these people are called mixing. If the owners do not know their property, then they are considered partners, 
not the ones who mix it up. Malik says: Unless each Muslim whose wealth is mixed (together) does not pay zakat (nisaba) separately, they 
Zakat is not deducted. For example: If one of the two people with mixed wealth has forty sheep, he pays zakat for it, while zakat is not given to those who have less than forty sheep. If zakat is obligatory on each of them separately, they both give zakat on the total property. For example, if one of them has a thousand or less sheep and the other has forty or more sheep, and they are mixed together, the one with a thousand sheep and the one with forty will be paid by calculating the total zakat they have given in proportion to their property. 713-) Imam-i  Malik says: The provision of zakat arising from sheep being mixed together is the same as for camels. If each partner's camel reaches zakat separately, their zakat is given over the total property. because The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Zakat does not fall on camels less than five camels." 
b. Khattab also said: "The zakat of sheep fed in herds on pastures is one forty." 714-) Imam-i  Malik; He explains the saying of Hazrat Umar: "People who have separate possessions cannot collect their wealth for fear of paying zakat. Those who have a group cannot leave," he explains. If we assume three people, each of whom has forty sheep, then it would be obligatory to give zakat to each of them one sheep separately. When the zakat officer arrives, if he collects the sheep of the three of them and receives zakat on one sheep from their total, the things that should not be collected will be collected and he will have received one sheep instead of three. This is prohibited. He also states the following regarding "what should not be separated and collected on top of each other while calculating zakat": If two people whose wealth is mixed have one hundred and one sheep each, then they must give three sheep out of their total wealth as zakat. If the zakat officer comes and separates their sheep, then each of them has to give zakat to one sheep. This is also prohibited. That's why it's called like this. "Because you are afraid of giving too much zakat, do not run away from zakat by collecting the things that will be determined separately and the zakat will be determined according to it, and by collecting the zakat amount separately by collecting them on top of each other." Malik says: This is the verdict I have heard on the matter. 715-) Sufyan b. Abdullah narrates: Umar b. Khattab appointed me as a zakat officer. I used to include kids and lambs in the nisab. Thereupon: You count the goats and the lambs, but you do not take them as zakat!» they objected. When I came to Hazrat Umar, I told him what had happened. Hadrat Umar: Yes, the goats and lambs that the shepherds carry in their arms are included in the amount of nisab, but do not take them as zakat; do not take the ones that are fed for meat, the ones that are young, the ones that are loaded, and the ones that are one or two years old, from their property. That is what is just between the cubs and the best.” said. Malik says: Sahle is a newborn lamb and kid; rubbâ is an animal that gives birth and raises its young; mahÿd is a pregnant animal; if it is ecule, it is a meat sheep that is fed for food. 716-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man has enough sheep to fill the nisab, if they lamb and reach the nisab the day before the zakat officer arrives, he has to give the zakat of these sheep. If he completes the nisab with his lambs, zakat is deducted, because lambs are also counted as sheep – like your property and blood. However, the following is an exception: If a man has goods that do not reach the nisab amount and he reaches the nisab by purchasing, grant or inheritance, then it is not necessary to give zakat for this property. It is the same with commodities. If its value in money does not reach the nisab, but if it reaches the nisab with the profit he makes when he sells it, he must add the profit to the principal and give zakat to both of them together. If this profit (excess that completes the quorum) is derived from an income other than sales or through inheritance, one year must pass from the day it is earned or inherited. Malik says: The lamb of the sheep is counted from him, just as the income is counted from the real property. However, it differs in one respect. Namely: The man has gold or silver that reaches the nisab amount. Later, he adds some perpetuity to this: A person first gives zakat on the gold and silver he has. He gives zakat on what he has earned later, after one year has passed. Again, if a man has sheep, cattle and camels, each of which has reached the nisab in number, later on, if he adds some more sheep, cattle and camels to them, he gives the zakat of the goods he has and gives their zakat together. Regarding this matter, Malik said: "This is the best judgment I have heard." says. 717-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to the tradition among us Medinas, if a second zakah was obligatory on a person who has one hundred camels and for whom zakat is obligatory, before the zakat officer arrives, and when the zakat officer arrives, he would have only five camels left. In this case, the owner says: The zakat officer takes two sheep, one for each year, by calculating the zakat of the owner of the past two years, out of these five available camels. Because the duty of the zakat officer is to take the zakat of the property that is available on the day the zakat is received. If the owner has more than one zakat debt from the previous years, the officer should only receive zakat on the property in his possession. No zakat is taken from a person whose property falls below the nisab amount due to his death or due to many zakat debts belonging to the past years, until all of his property dies or it falls below the minimum 
nisab amount. In this case, zakat is not obligatory for him. It is also not necessary to compensate the debts left over from the deceased or from previous years. 
718-) Hazrat Aisha narrates: Umar b. A flock of sheep received as zakat was brought to Khattab. He saw a large-breasted sheep with milk in its udder. What is this sheep?» she asked. It is a sheep received as zakat.” they replied. Hazrat Umar: The owner did not give it with his consent. Muslims like this don't force it! Do not take as zakat the best of their wealth and what they set aside for milking.” 719-) Muhammed b. Yahya b. Habban narrates: Two people from the Eÿca' tribe told: Muhammad b. 
Maslama al-Ansari  came to them as a zakat officer and said to the owners: Bring me the zakat of your goods!' he had said, he had taken and accepted whatever useful thing they had brought. 720-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to the practice of the people of Madinah and the scholars I trained in our country, Muslims do not have difficulty in zakat, whatever they give is taken. 721-) Atâ b. Yesar narrates that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is not permissible for the rich to receive zakat. However, these five groups of people are excluded: those who fight in the way of Allah, the officials in charge of collecting zakat, debtors, those who buy the goods for which zakat is given with their money, and the rich neighbor to whom a poor person gives zakat as a gift.' 722-) From Imam-i  Malik: Zakat collected according to us Medina'ils can only be divided according to the discretion of the Governor. It is checked: Which class is more needy and more in number among the classes in which zakat can be given, the amount is preferably given to that class as the Governor decides. After one, two or years, this class can be dropped and transferred to another class that is needy and more numerous. I have witnessed scholars I know do this. The officer does not have a certain share of the zakat he collects, whatever the governor gives him, he takes it. 723-) From Imam-i  Malik: Abu Bakr as-Siddiq:  "If they do not even give me the halter of a camel that they gave to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) as zakat, I will fight them because of it." said. Bukhari (Zakat, 24/1) and Muslim (Iman, 8/32) narrate this work, which is transmitted with the phrase "Belaga", through Zuhri. 
724-) Zayd b. The map tells; Umar b. Khattab liked the milk he drank. To the one who offered the milk to him: Where did this milk come from?' she asked. Man: I arrived at a water's edge, and I saw zakat animals! They were watering them. They also milked for me. So I put it in my bowl, this milk is what it is.” When he replied, Umar b. Khattab put his hand down his throat and vomited the milk he had been drinking. 725-) From Imam-i  Malik: If Muslims cannot afford to receive one of the zakat given by Allah, the Magnificent and Majestic in our opinion, they must fight until they get it. 726-) From Imam-i  Malik: I have heard that a governor, Umar b. He wrote a letter to Abdulaziz: "A man does not give zakat on his property." he said. Thereupon, Umar said to him, "Leave him, and do not take it from him when you take zakat from the Muslims." he replied. When the man heard this, he went to his strength and gave his zakat after the meal. 
When the governor presented the situation to Umar (radiyallahu anh) again, this time Umar b. Abdulaziz said: "Then take his zakat too." 727-) Büsr b. Said narrates that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: “The zakat of the crop obtained from the land irrigated with rain, spring and water from the field is one-tenth;  The zakat of the land that is irrigated with the water carried by the tools is one-twentieth.”  Bukhari (Zakat, 24/55) reports from Ibn Umar. Muslim (Zakat, 12/7) is Jabir b. It is narrated from Abdillah in the same sense. 728-) Ibn Shihab al-Zuhri  says: Low quality dates are left to their owner. These are not taken as zakat. Malik says: Likewise, the lambs of the sheep are left to their owner, they are not taken as zakat. There are also fruits that are not taken as zakat because they are of high quality or low quality. Those received as zakat are of normal quality. 729-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our alliance, the amount of fruits other than dates and grapes cannot be estimated 
while they are still on the branch. It is estimated after the fruits of dates and grapes appear and their sale is halal. Because dates and grapes are eaten fresh and dry, the amount is estimated so that it will be easy for people and not cause trouble to anyone. Then they are released to eat as they wish. They also give zakat over the estimated amount. 730-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not possible to determine the amount by estimating all the grains that cannot be eaten wet and can only be eaten after the 
harvest. Their owners harvest them, beat them, scatter them and separate them from the grain. In this case (which is entrusted to their owners), if they reach the nisab amount, they give zakat. 731-) Imam-i  Malik says: Again, according to our agreement, the amount of time when the date is still on the branch and its sale is halal is estimated, and the zakat is taken as dates when 
collecting. If, after estimating the amount, the fruit suffers a disaster before it is harvested and all the fruits are affected, it is not necessary to give zakat. If there are five vesak (three hundred sa) or more unaffected fruits, according to the measure of the Prophet, the zakat is taken. There is no zakat for those affected by the disaster. The same is done with grapes. 
732-) If a person has possessions in various places or shares in various goods, if they do not reach the nisab separately, if they fill the nisab when they are gathered, he collects all of them and gives his zakat. 733-) From Imam-i  Malik: I asked Ibn Shihab about the zakat of olives. "He has one-tenth  of his zakat." said. According to the Imamey, in the Hanafi Madhhab, five vesk (approximately 650 kg.) or more is paid, and according to Abu Hanifa, any amount is paid. 
734-) From Imam-i  Malik: If the amount of olives whose oil is extracted reaches three hundred sa' (a sa' is 2.176 gr.), zakat is given over one tenth. If it does not reach three hundred sa, zakat is not deducted. 735-) Olives are like dates. If it is irrigated with rain water, spring water and water from the field, zakat is taken at one tenth, if it is irrigated with transport water, it is taken at one twenty. Income is not estimated until olives are picked, 736-) Imam-i  Malik says: The tradition among us Medina regarding the grains that the people collect and eat in the warehouses is as follows: If the income of the land irrigated by rain, spring and water from the field reaches three hundred sa', one tenth of it is labor. If the income of the land irrigated with the water transported by spending reaches 300 h, zakat is taken from it as well. The higher the income, the higher the amount of zakat received. 737-) Imam-i  Malik says: Cereals from which zakat is taken and eaten after removing the grains are as follows: Wheat, barley, barley barley, corn, millet, rice, lentils, cülban (burçak), lobya, cülcülan (sesame) etc. . 738-) Imam-i  Malik: Is a tithe given after spending from olives for needs or without spending?» he was asked. Imam-i  Malik replied: "Thursday has nothing to do with needs, but the owner is asked about food, as the cook is asked, and what he says is believed. If the olives reach 300 hours or more, one tenth of the oil is taken, and if the olive oil is less than 300 hours, zakat is not taken from it. 739-) Imam-i  Malik says: A man who sells his crops in the field when it starts to mature also pays the zakat of that property. 
gives. The buyer does not. 740-) The crop in the field is not sold before it matures and needs water. 741-) Imam-i  Malik: "Give your due on the harvest day," Enam 141, verse means zakat. I've heard people say that…” 742-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person sells his entire garden or his cultivated land before the crops begin to mature, the person who buys it pays his zakat. If the product sells when it is mature, the seller will pay the zakat, but the situation will change if the buyer makes it a condition to give his zakat. Shaybanî, 345. 743-) From Imam-i  Malik: The man's four vesk (240 sa'; one sâ' 2.176 gr.) dates, four vest (240 sa') grapes, four vesk (240 sa') wheat and four Even if the wask (240 sa') has legumes, they are not piled up and zakat is not paid because they do not reach the nisab. If each of them reaches five vesk (300 sa'a) individually, their zakat is given. because 
Our Master the Prophet said: « Zakat does not fall on dates that are less than 5 vesks (300 h).» he ordered. 744-) If each of the above-mentioned  foods were to fill five vesks (300 sal) separately, zakat would be deducted; in this case, it would not. It is as follows: if dates of different types are collected on top of each other and reach the nisab, zakat is given. 745-) Wheat is like that. Barley, barley, white wheat, yellow wheat are all of the same genus. A person who acquires five vesk (300 sa') of wheat is deemed to have the nisab for which zakat can be paid, and pays zakat. If it does not find the nisab, it is not paid. 746-) Grapes are the same. Zakat is calculated by counting the black and red grapes of the same kind. If a person harvests five vesk (three hundred sa') grapes, zakat will be paid on it, but if it is less than that, it will not. 747-) As with wheat, dates, and grapes, although their types are different, various types of legumes are collected as if they are of the same genus, and if five vesk (300 hr') are received, zakat is given. Chickpeas, lentils, lobbies and cowhide are legumes. If a person harvests such agricultural products from various classes, not from a single class, they are added together and this person pays zakat. From Malik: Umar b. Khattab took the zakat of grains and legumes separately: He took customs duty of one-tenth  of the legumes and one-twentieth  of the goods of grain and grapes of the Christian traders from Iraq (Nabat). 748-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person says, "How can the types of legumes be collected on top of each other in order to reach zakat, whereas a person can buy two (kilo) of the best quality of legumes in exchange for one (kilo) of the best quality in cash? However, the types of wheat cannot be interchanged to different degrees.» If he objects, the answer will be as follows: Gold and silver were added together when calculating their zakat: However, a lot of silver can be bought in exchange for a small amount of gold in cash. 749-) Imam-i  Malik says: If two people jointly obtain eight vesk (480 sa') dates, zakat will not be paid on them. If five vesk (300 sa') per share of one person and four vesk (240 sa') in the other's share, zakat is deducted for the one who receives 300 sa'. It does not fall until 240 hr. This is the case with all partnerships. 
750-) Zakat is given to those who earn 300 hours separately on all harvested agricultural products, dates and grapes. Zakat is not deducted for the partner who earns less. 751-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to the tradition among the people of Madinah, when wheat, dates, grapes and other grains are obtained, their zakat is also given. The owner of the property to which he gave his zakat can keep it with him for years and then sell it. Zakat is not deducted from the money he buys until one year has passed. If the goods are acquired through revenue or other means and are in the form of food, grain and goods if they are not for commercial purposes, and if the person earns them, keeps them for years, and then sells them for gold and silver, zakat is not required until one year has passed from the day he sold the money. If these goods are trade goods and the owner has bought these goods in return for the goods to which he has given zakat and has kept them for a year from that day on, he has to give his zakat as soon as he sells them. 
752-) Imam-i  Malik said: According to what I have heard from scholars and which is practiced without dispute among us people of Madinah, zakat does not fall on all fruits. Zakat is not given to pomegranates, peaches, figs and all fruits similar or dissimilar to them. In fact, this is the place of fatwa. It was given according to the conditions of that day. Because that day it was not possible to dry the figs and preserve the peaches. Since such fruits could not be stored, they were eaten while they were fresh and zakat was not given. 753-) Zakat is not deducted on alfalfa and vegetables. If they are sold, zakat is given one year after the money is received by the 
owner. 754-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A Muslim's slave and horse do not receive zakat." Bukhari, Zakat, 24/46; Muslim, Zakat, 12/8. See also There are two views on the zakat of horses in the Shaybani, 336 Madhhab: a) According to Imamayn, horses are never subject to zakat, b) According to Abu Hanifa, if they are in a generation, it is one dinar or two hundred dirhams per saime (which is fed on the countryside for more than half of the year). Zakat is paid five dirhams (2.5% of its value). 755-) Süleyman b. Yesar narrates: The people of Damascus Abu Ubeyde b. To al-Jarrah:  Take alms from our horses and slaves too!» they said. Abu Ubayde did not receive their request, but Umar b. He informed Khattab in a letter. Hazrat Umar did not take it either. The people of Damascus talked to Abu Ubayda again. The same request continued. Abu Ubayda wrote to the caliph again. Thereupon, the caliph Umar b. Khattab wrote to him, "Take it if they want, and give it to them and their slaves." Malik says: "Give them again" means "give to the poor of them". Shaybani, 338 
756-) Amr b. Hazm's grandson Abdullah b. Abi Bakr narrates: When my father was in Mina, Omar b. A decree came to him from Abdulaziz, telling him not to "take zakat on honey and horses". ÿeybanî, 337 757-) Abdullah b. From Dinar: Said b. To Musayyeb: Is zakat taken from kaadana (mules)?» I asked. Doesn't he take it from the horse?" he replied. According to the 885th Imameyn, when Shaybani finds five faraks, according to Abu Hanifa, every amount is subject to 'tirah. 758-) From Ibn Shihab: According to what I heard, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took jizyah from the Bahrain magi. Bukhari, Jizya, 57/1. b. Khattab was one of the Iranian magi, Osman b. Affan also received jizya from the Berbers. , Siyer, 19/31, See also. ÿeybanî, 332 759-) Cafer b. Muhammed b. Ali narrates from his father: Omar b. Khattab brought the word to the magi: "I don't know what to do with them." said. Thereupon, Abdurrahman b. Awf: I personally heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say, 'Treat them like the People of the Book'. 760-) Umar b. From Esleme, the freedman of Khattab: Ömer b. Khattab charged the non-Muslims  of Egypt and Damascus four dinars each, and the non-Muslims  of Iraq forty dirhams. He also set the rule that Muslims should be granted assistance and hospitality for three days. ÿeybanî, 333 761-) Zeyd b. Maple narrates from his father: Umar b. I said to Khattab: There is a blind camel among the zakats. 
Give someone to do their job!” he replied. He is blind!” said. Omar (radiyallahu anh): He walks when he joins the strait.» said. And how will he graze?” said. Upon this, Hadrat Umar said: Is it jizya property or is it from zakat? she asked. Cizye property.” said. Omar (radiyallahu anh): I see, you want to eat it!» I said: There is a sign on it that it has jizyah property.” said. On the order of Hazrat Umar, the camel was slaughtered. Umar (radiyallahu anh) had nine plates with him. Whenever there was fruit and pleasant food, he would put it on these plates and send it to the wives of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Meanwhile, his daughter, Hafsa, was also the wife of the Prophet, so he would send it to her, but she would send it last. She thought that if she didn't catch up, she wouldn't catch up with my daughter. This time, he put the meat of the slaughtered camel on these plates. He sent it to the wives of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He ordered the rest to be cooked and invited some of the Ansar and Muhajir. 762-) Imam-i  Malik said: I do not find it appropriate to take another tax from those who are charged jizya. 763-) From Imam-i  
Malik; I heard that Umar b. Abdulaziz informed the zakat collectors with a edict that "Those who were charged jizya should not receive their jizya if they become Muslims". 
764-) Regarding the jizya, Imam-i  Malik says: According to the practice until now, the jizya is not taken from the women and children of the People of the Book. It is only taken from men who have become sane. 765-) Zakat is not taken from the grapes, agricultural products, small and cattle animals obtained from the dates of the dhimmis and magi. Because zakat has been made obligatory for Muslims in order to cleanse the Muslims and to take care of their poor. On the other hand, the jizya was imposed to reduce the people of the book. In the country they live in by agreement, they are not taxed other than the jizya. If they only do business and enter and leave Muslim countries on this occasion, a tenth tax is collected from their trade goods. The jizya is only taken as a result of an agreement made by the parties to live in a Muslim country and to protect them against their enemies. Customs (tiehr) is taken from a dhimmi who goes to another country for commercial purposes. Even if he goes from Egypt to Damascus, from Damascus to Iraq, from Iraq to Medina, or to Yemen, or to any other country, for the purpose of trade. 
it gives customs (tietre) again. There is no zakat on the goods, fruits, or agricultural products of the People of the Book and Magi. So far this has been the practice. They are subject to their religion, they will continue in whatever religion they are. If they enter and leave a country several times in a year for trade, they pay a tenth of their customs duties each time. Because there is no trade in the terms of the jizya agreement. The scholars of Madinah, whom I was trained in, also judged in this way. Imam Shafii and Imam Abu Hanifa said that it can only be taken once a year from the People of the Book. (The Zürkanî Commentary, 1/190). 
766-) Salim b. Abdullah narrates from his father: Umar b. Khattab used to collect a twenty percent customs duty on the wheat and olives of the Christian merchants. The reason why he took this tax low was to ensure that these goods came to Medina. However, he used to collect a tenth tax from legumes. ÿeybanî, 331 767-) Saib b. Yazid narrates: Umar b. At the time of Khattab Abdullah b. Utba b. I was working as a tax officer in the bazaars of Medina with Mas'ud. At that time we were collecting a tenth tax from Christian merchants. 768-) From Imam-i  Malik: To Ibn Shihab: Omar b. By what measure does Khattab charge a tenth of a tax from the Christian merchants?” I asked. Ibn Shihab replied, "It was taken as such in the age of ignorance, and Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) continued this." 769-) Umar b. Khattab explains: I bought a good horse and gave it to someone for the sake of Allah. The man was not taking good care of the horse. I wanted to buy the horse for him. I thought I could get it cheap. I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about the situation. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Even if it is for one dirham, do not take it, because he who returns from his alms is like a dog that eats its vomit. Bukhari, Zakat, 24/59; Muslim, Hibat, 24/1 770-) Abdullah b. From Umar: Umar b. Khattab donated a horse for the sake of Allah. Then he wanted to buy it. When he presented the situation to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam), our Prophet said: "Do not buy it, nor return from charity." Bukhari, Zakat, 24/59; Muslim, Hibat, 24/3. 771-) To Imam-i  Malik: "If a man who gives alms to someone sees that the alms he gave is sold by another, can he buy it?" he was asked. Malik replied, "If he stays, it's better not to be." 
772-) Nafi' tells; Abdullah b. Ömer would also give the fitness of his slaves in Vadiyülkura and Khaybar. 773-) From Imam-i Malik: The best thing I've heard about the subject of fitra being fard is the obligation to pay the fitra of those whose livelihood we take over. In this case, the person gives the fitra of his Muslim mukatabi (freed slave in the contract), his slave who will be free after his death, and other slaves, regardless of whether they are with him or elsewhere, whether they are for trade or not. Non-Muslims  do not have to give their fitrah. 
774-) The condition of the slave who escaped from the house is checked, whether his master knows his place or not, if he has just 
disappeared and his master is hopeful of his life and that he will return, he gives his fitrah. If a long time has passed and his master has 
given up hope, he will not give his fitrah. 
775-) Fitra is obligatory for villagers as well as city dwellers. Because the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) 
stated that fitra is obligatory for every Muslim, free or slave, male or female, in Ramadan. 
776-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) determined fitra in Ramadan as one sa' (2.176 gr.) dates or one sa' of 
barley for every Muslim, male, female, free and slave. Bukhari, Zakat, 24/70; Muslim, Zakat, 12/12. 

777-) Abu Said al-Khudri  narrates: We used to give the fitra of one sa' of food, one sa' of barley, one sa' of dates, one sa' keÿ (keÿ 
cheese, dried yogurt) or one sa' of raisins. This sa' was the measure determined by the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa 
sallam). Bukhari, Zakat, 24/73; Muslim, Zakat, 12/17. 
778-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar would not give his fitra with anything other than dates, he gave barley only once. Bukhari, Zakat, 
24777. 779-) Imam-i  Malik said; Except for zihar, all kaffarah, fitra, and tithe are measured in mudd-i  Nabi and small mudla (one mud 
is half a kg). Zihar kaffarah is measured with the greatest mud, Hisham muddi. 

780-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar used to send the fitrah to the person who collected the fitra two or three days before the eid. 781-) From Imam-i  Malik: As I see it, scholars thought it good to give fitra before the prayer at dawn on the day of Eid. Bukhari, Zakat, 24/76 (as merfu from Ibn Omar); Muslim, Zakat, 12/2223 782-) Imam-i  Malik says: Insha Allah, the period of giving fitra continues before and after the prayer on the day of Eid. Shaybani, 344 783-) From Imam-i  Malik: It is not necessary for a person to give fitra for his slave's slave, worker, or wife's slave. If there are only those who serve him and they are absolutely necessary for him, then he gives their fitrah. Whether it is bought for commercial purposes or for other purposes, fitra does not fall on a non-Muslim  slave unless he becomes a Muslim. 
784-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) brought the word to Ramadan: "Do not start fasting before seeing the crescent, and do not celebrate Eid without seeing the crescent again. If it is cloudy, complete the month with thirty days.” he commanded. Bukhari, Savm, 30/11; Muslim, Siam, 13/3. See also ÿeybanî, 346, 785-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The month is twenty-nine. 
Do not start fasting before seeing the crescent, and do not celebrate Eid without seeing the crescent. If it is cloudy on the last day of Ramadan, complete the month with thirty days.” Bukhari, Savm, 30/11; Muslim, Siam, 13/9. When the subject is looked at from the point of view of fiqh based on the "ÿHTÿLAF-I  METALÿ", it is possible to meet the difference in this matter naturally. However, we must state right away that the difference seen in this issue today does not consist of respecting the «ÿHTÿLAF-I  METALÿ». It is a difference created by different methods applied in the determination of the crescent moon. However, we have to admit that today's Muslims have no tolerance for separation, even if it is due to the "dispute of metal". Because, as we have just mentioned, our world has shrunk and distances have shortened. Thanks to very serial communication and transportation facilities, an event occurring in any part of the world can be heard instantly, even in the farthest corner of the world. Continuing to fast in an Islamic country while the feast is being held in another Islamic country, even if it is based on the legal view that respects the "THILAF­I METALI", brings Muslim societies face to face with an inexplicable result. In fact, as we know very well; The scholars of the Hanafi, Maliki and Hanbali sects are of the opinion that the "ÿHTÿLAF-I  METALÿ" is not respected and that the whole Islamic World should act according to this proof if the crescent is confirmed in one place. There are also jurists in the Shafi'i sect who adopt the same view. Therefore, it is an important task for all of us to eliminate this separation. Muslims working in this issue, especially in European countries and belonging to different Islamic countries, are in a more difficult situation. Some of them follow their own country, others respect the proclamation of other countries, so Muslims living in the same city, belonging to the same religion or even to the same nation, start fasting and celebrate Eid on separate days. Among them, there are many who make offensive accusations and cause strife unknowingly. The fact that this situation put them in a difficult position against non-Muslims  is another reality and another pain. When asked by non-Muslims,  the Muslim worker working in countries said, "Aren't you all members of the same religion? Why don't you feast on the same day?" should be avoided from being confronted with the question. In this regard, I would like to take as an example the determination of the Ramadan, Shawwal and Zilhijce crescents in the most recent past. As it is known, Ramadan fasting in 1398 AH -1978 M. started on Sunday, August 6, 1978 in some Islamic Countries (for example: Turkey, Afghanistan, Morocco and Nigeria), while others (for example: Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Lebanon, Syria). etc.) fasting was entered on Saturday, August 5th. While the majority of Islamic countries start fasting by dividing on 5 or 6 August, there are also countries that enter Ramadan on 4 and 7 August. If the information we received from the embassies is not misleading, the Muslims in Iraq and Kuwait intended to fast on 4 August, and our Muslim brothers in Pakistan started fasting on 7 August. Even if the jurisprudence based on the "ÿHTÿLAF-I  METALÿ" is defended, it is impossible not to see the sad state of the Islamic World in the face of this picture. 1398 H. 
As for the Shawwal crescent of the year 1978 M: the sad result has also emerged about the declaration of this crescent. Namely: In some countries, Eid was held on September 3, as if the Shawwal crescent was seen on the evening of September 2, and in other countries, fasting was continued on the same day and the feast was entered one day later (September 4). Although we do not have definite determinations, it is possible to say that Eid is celebrated on September 2 and 5 in some countries, based on their entry into Ramadan. Again this year, the result encountered in the determination of the Dhu'l-Hijjah  crescent and the announcement of the Eid­al-Adha  was not different from the situation of the Ramadan and Shawwal crescents. In some Islamic countries, November 1 was declared as 1 Dhu al-Hijjah,  as if the Dhul-Hijjah  crescent was sighted on the evening of 31 October, while in others, 2 November was accepted and declared as 1 Zil-Hijjah.  We are of the opinion that this separation is not a separation arising from the «ÿHTÿLAF-I METALÿ». Nor is it a separation caused by the observation and detection of the crescent moon in these countries. It is also impossible to claim that one or another countries observed the crescent and announced it only as such, while others were on the wrong track because they did not do this. The basis of the conflict lies in the different methods applied in Islamic countries. 
786-) Abdullah b. From Abbas: Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) brought the word to Ramadan and said: “Do not start fasting until you see the crescent, and do not stop fasting until you see the crescent again. If it is cloudy on the last day, complete the month with thirty days.” This hadith is Munkati, Abu Dawud (Sawm, 14/7) narrates as apocalyptic. See also Tirmidhi, Savm, 6/5; Nesai, Siam, 22/13. Although some of the decisions in this declaration have been implemented and positive results have been obtained, there are still some different applications, especially at the point regarding the beginning of Ramadan. The most important reason for these different practices is political rather than scientific. 787-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Osman b. During the time of Affan, the crescent appeared in the morning, but Hazrat Osman did not break his fast and continued fasting until the evening and sunset. 788-) According to Yahya, Imam-i  Malik said the following about a person who sees the crescent of Ramadan: A person who sees the crescent moon only for himself starts fasting. It would not be appropriate for him not to fast, knowing that it is a day of the month of Ramadan. 789-) Anyone who sees the Shawwal crescent only for himself should not break his fast. Because those who don't believe him accuse him. When they saw the crescent, "we saw the crescent!" they say. Whoever sees the Shawwal crescent during the day should not break his fast. Let him fast until the evening of that day. Because the crescent he sees is the crescent of the next day. 
790-) From Yahya, Imam-i  Malik said: If he fasts on the day of Eid, thinking that it is Ramadan, even if a trustworthy person comes to them and says that the crescent moon was seen the day before, even if thirty-one  fasting days will be completed that day, they will fast no matter what time it is. they spoil. If the person who comes has come after zawal, they do 
not perform the Eid prayer. 
791-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The fast of a person who gets up before dawn and does not intend to fast that day is not fasting. According to the Hanafi Sect, one can intend to fast if something has not been eaten until zawal. 792-) From Ibn Shihab: There is a narration in this context from Hadrat Aisha and Hafsa, the wives of the Prophet (pbuh). Abu Dawud, Savra, 14/71; Tirmidhi, Savm, 6/33; Nesai, Siam, 22/68. See also Shaybani, 372. 
793-) Kehl b. From Sa'd es-Saidi:  The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Muslims will always be in good deeds as long as they hurry for iftar." Bukhari, Savm, 30/45; Muslim, Siam, 13/9 794-) Said b. From Musayyeb: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Muslims: As long as they hurry in iftar, they will always be in goodness." Ibn Abdilber says: "There is no disagreement with Malik in the mursal of this hadith." See also Shaybani, 364. 
795-) Humayd b. From Abdurrahman: Omar b. Khattab and Osman b. They would perform the evening prayers in Aftan, and break their Ramadan fasts after dark after the prayer. Shaybani, 365 796-) Hadrat Aisha narrates: A man stood at the door and said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): O Messenger of Allah! I became junub, although I wanted to fast!” said. I could hear their conversation. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I too became junub, so I wanted to fast. I will wash and fast.” said. The man said to our Prophet: O Messenger of Allah! You are not like us. When he said, "Allah has forgiven all the sins that you have done and will do", the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got angry and said: I swear I would like to be your most fearful of Allah and the one who knows best what to avoid. Muslim, Siam, 13/13. See also Shaybani, 350 797-) From Aisha and Umm Salama, the wives of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to fast in the mornings, without rhythm, due to sexual intercourse, and then (by washing himself). Bukhari, Savm, 30/25; Muslim, Sÿyâm, 13/78 798-) Haris b. Hisham's grandson, Abu Bakr b. Abdurrahman tells: I was with my father Marwan b. I was with the referee. He was the governor of Medina at that time. Abu Huraira said to him, "One who wakes up as junub cannot fast that day." what he said was conveyed. Thereupon, Marwan insisted: “Abdurrahman! Go to Umm Salama with Aisha, the mother of the believers, and ask if there is such a narration.” said. Abdurrahman and I set out, after arriving in the presence of Hazrat Aisha and greeting: Mother of believers! We were with Marwan, and Abu 
It is reported that Hüreyre said that one who wakes up as junub cannot fast on that day. What do you think? we asked. Hadrat Aisha: Not as Abu Huraira said. O Abdurrahman, do you want to get out of what the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) did?' said. Abdurrahman: No, never!» When she said, Hadrat Aisha said: I certainly testify that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to wake up as junub due to sexual intercourse, and then he used to fast that day. said. We went out and stopped by Umm Salama. We asked him too. He said the same thing as Hazrat Aisha said. From there we came to Marwan. Abdurrahman narrated to him what the wives of the Prophet had said. Thereupon Marwan said: Abu Muhammad! Your mount is at the door, and go to Abu Huraira, he is now in his field in Aqiq. Tell him the situation,” he said. We took a ride with Abdurrahman. We arrived at Abu Huraira. Abdurrahman spoke and told him about it. Abu Huraira: I do not know that. Someone told me that this person in the narration in Muslim 'Fadl b. Abbas' (Zürkanî Commentary, 11/216). said," he said. Bukhari, Savm, 30/22; Muslim, Siam, 13/75. See also Shaybani, 351 799-) From Hadrat Aisha and Umm Salama, the wives of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) he kept his fast'. Buhari, Savm, 30/22; Muslim, Siam, 13/78. 
800-) Ata b. Yesar tells: A man kissed my wife while she was fasting in Ramadan. He was extremely upset about it. He immediately sent his wife to inquire about the situation. The woman came to Umm Salama, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He told what happened. Umm Salama: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) kisses while fasting!” said. She returned and told Umm Salama's word to her husband. The man's anger increased even more: We are not like the Messenger of Allah! Allah has made everything he wanted lawful.” The woman again Umm He came to Seleme. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was also with him. The Prophet: What is the woman doing? she asked. When Umm Salama presented the situation, the Prophet said: Didn't you say that I kissed too?' Umm Salama: I told you.» When he said that, the woman returned to her husband and explained the situation. The man's anger increased again and he said: We are not like the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Allah has made lawful for him whatever he wants!” said. Hearing this, the Prophet got angry and said: "I swear by Allah, I am the one who fears Allah the most and knows best in which aspects he will not exceed the limit." This badis is mursal in all narrators. See also 
Shafii, Risale, no: 1109; Shaybani, 352. 
801-) Hadrat Aisha narrates: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) kissed some of his wives while he was fasting." Hazrat Aisha narrated 
this and laughed. Bukhari, Savm, 30/24; Muslim, Siam, 13/62. 
802-) Yahya b. From Said: Umar b. Khattab's wife Atike kisses Hazrat Omar's head while fasting. 

would not have prevented him. 
803-) Talha's daughter Aisha narrates: I was with Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). My husband Abdullah b. 
Abdurrahman b. Abi Bakr also came. He was fasting. Hadrat Aisha said to him: Why don't you approach your wife and kiss her and 
play with her?' said. Husband: Can I kiss fasting?» When he said, Hazrat Aisha said: ÿeybanî, 353 804-) Zeyd b. From Eslem: Ebû 
Hüreyre and Said b. Abu Waqqas used to allow kissing while fasting. There is no harm in kissing by those who have control over 
themselves. However, it is better for those who cannot trust themselves not to kiss. 805-) According to the narration from Imam-i  Malik, 
Hadrat Aisha: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) kissed while fasting.» After he said: "Which of you has more self-control  than the 
Messenger of Allah (pbuh)?" he said. This is the narration of Malik. It is also narrated as a season. Bukhari, Savm, 30/23 Muslim, 
Siamese, 13/65 806-) Urve b. Zubayr says: I do not think that kissing while fasting will lead to good. 

807-) Ata b. From Yesar: Abdullah b. Abbas was asked if he could kiss the wife of the fasting person. He gave permission to the old, 
but not to the young. 
808-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar forbade kissing and flirting while fasting. 
809-) Abdullah b. From Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) set out to go to Mecca in Ramadan in the year 
Mecca was conquered. He broke his fast when he came to Kadid, which is seven mansions away from Medina and three mansions 
from Mecca. Thereupon, all the Muslims on the expedition broke their fast. Because the Companions were carrying out every order of 
the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam). Bukhari, claim, 30/14; Muslim, Siyam, 13/88, See also » Shaybani, 360. 

810-) Abu Bakr b. From Abdurrahman: Some of the Companions said: In the year of conquest, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told 
the Muslims to break their fast and said: "Be strong against your enemies." He continued the fast. From Bakr: The one who told 
me said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) pouring water on his head in the Arc because of thirst or because of the heat. To 
herself; It was said, "O Messenger of Allah, we continue to fast with some people." When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa 
sallam) came to Kedid, he asked for a bowl and drank water. Thereupon, everyone broke their fast. Muslim, Siam, 13/90. 

811-) Enes b. Malik: We went on a journey in Ramadan with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Those who fast did not condemn 
those who did not, and those who did not condemn those who did. Muslim, Siam, 13/99. 
812-) From Hisham's father, Urwa: Hamza b. Amr al-Aslemi  to the Prophet: O Messenger of Allah! I'm a fasting person, can I 
fast on a journey?» she asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Take it if you want, do not hold it if you don’t want to.” they 
ordered. Bukhari, Savm, 30/33 (Ai|@'d@n);  Muslim, Sÿyâm, 13/104 813-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar never fasted during a 
campaign. Shaybani, 359. 
814-) Hisham, narrating from his father, Urwa, says: Urwa went on an expedition in Ramadan. We would go with him; Urwa fasted, 
we did not. He would not order us to fast. This hadith is a living witness that a person who goes on a journey during Ramadan may 
not fast. 815-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Umar b. When Khattab went on a journey in Ramadan, he would intend 
to fast if he could be in Madinah on the first day of Ramadan. 816-) From Imam-i  Malik: If a person who goes on a journey in Ramadan 
knows that he will return home after dawn on the morning of the day he is in, he intends to fast. Malik says: If a person wants to go 
on a journey in Ramadan, if the dawn breaks before he leaves his hometown, he will fast until the evening that day. 817-) Imam-i  
Malik: If a man does not fast that day while returning from a journey, and if his wife has not started the Ramadan fast because she 
has just stopped menstruation, the man can have sexual relations with his wife if he wishes. 

818-) From Abu Huraira: A man broke his fast in Ramadan. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered him to make expiation by either 
freeing a slave, fasting for two months, or feeding sixty poor people. Man: I can't find it." A handful of dates were brought to the 
Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) when he said: Give it as charity.' he commanded. Man: Messenger of Allah! There is 
no one more needy than me.” When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, he laughed so that his side teeth were 
visible and said: "Eat it!" he commanded. Bukhari, Savm, 30/30; Muslim, Siam, 13/81. See also Shaybani, 349. According to the Hanafi 
Sect, the punishment for breaking the fast as a result of willfully eating, drinking and sexual intercourse is one day of accident, two 
lunar fasts, or feeding sixty poor people if they cannot afford it. 

819-) Said b. From Musayyeb: A Bedouin came to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). The man said, "I'm screwed!" he said, hitting his head, pulling out his hair. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) asked him: What is this situation?' she asked. Man: I had sexual intercourse with my wife while I was fasting in Ramadan.» said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Can you free a slave?” she asked. Man: "No!" said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 
‘alaihi wa sallam): Can you ransom a female camel?» he commanded. Man: "No!" said. Then the Prophet said to the man: So sit down! said. A flood of dates was brought to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). donate it.” said. Man: There is no one more needy than me.” When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Eat it and make up a day instead of the day you have intercourse with your wife! he commanded. Said b. 
"How many dates are there in a saddle?" Musayyeb asked. I asked. “It is between fifteen and twenty hours!” he replied. Ibn Abdilber says: "This hadith is thus mursal in all Muwatta narrators. 820-) From Imam Malik: I heard the scholars say: A person who had sexual intercourse with his wife during the qada of Ramadan, during the day or at any other time, was told by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). There is no need for penance, which was declared by the Prophet (Salam) to be given to a person who has sexual intercourse during the day in Ramadan. Only the fast has to be made up. Malik said: This is the best judgment I have heard on the subject. 
821-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar used to have blood drawn while fasting. Later, he abandoned it and did not have blood drawn until he had iftar while fasting. 822-) From Ibn Shihab: Sa'd b. Ebi Vakkas and Abdullah b. Omar used to have blood drawn while he was on aruç. Shaybani, 356. 823-) Hisham b. Urwa narrates from his father: While he was fasting, he would have blood drawn and then continued his fast. I always saw him fasting and getting blood drawn. 824-) Imam-i  Malik said: It is not considered bad for a fasting person to have blood drawn, but there is a fear of weakening. If that's not the case, it's welcome. If a man gets blood drawn in Ramadan and then continues his fast, I can't say anything, and that day's accident is not necessary. The reason why blood draw is considered bad is that it puts fasting into doubt. Whoever gets blood drawn and fasts until the evening, I cannot say anything to him, there is no need for an accident on that day, ÿeybani,357. 
825-) From Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): The Quraysh used to fast on the day of Ashura in the Age of Ignorance. At that time, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to fast. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) migrated to Madina, he fasted again and ordered that it be fasted. After the Ramadan fasting was made obligatory, the fast on the day of Ashura was abandoned. Only those who wanted it did, those who didn't didn't. Bukhari, Savm, 30/69; Muslim, Siam, 13/113. 
826-) Humayd b. Abdurrahman b. From Awf: Muaviye b. Abi Sufyan ascended the pulpit on the day of Ashura in the year he made the pilgrimage: O people of Madinah! Where are your scholars? For today, I said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'Today is Ashura. Fasting is not obligatory for you, but I am fasting. I heard him say, 'Let the one who wants to keep it, and those who don't want it not.' he was saying. Bukhari, Savm, 30/69; Muslim, Siam, 13/126. See also Shaybani, 374. The sect, taking this hadith as evidence, considers the fast of ashura one of the supererogatory fasts. 827-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Umar b. Khattab Haris b. By sending news to Hisham: It is the day of Ashura. So order your family to fast.” said. 
828-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade fasting during Ramadan and Eid-al-Adha.  According to the Hanafi Sect, it is not correct to fast on the days of tashriq (the four days of the Eid-al-Adha  with its eve). 829-) From Imam-i  Malik: Scholars; "There is no harm in keeping a continuous fast (year fast) after not fasting during Ramadan and Eid-al-Adha,  when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade fasting." I heard what you said. This is the best judgment I've heard on the subject. 
830-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade fasting (sawm-i  visal) for a few days without breaking the fast. Thereupon, the Companions said: Messenger of Allah! Is that what you're doing?" when he says: I am not like you, I am fed and made to drink.' he commanded. Bukhari, Savm, 30/20; Muslim, Siyam, 13/56, See also. Shaybani, 367 831-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Do not hold my dear soul! 
Do not hold the argument!» Thereupon, the Companions said: You are holding it like that, O Messenger of Allah!' When the Prophet objected, the Prophet said: I am not like you. I spend the night even though my Lord made me eat and drink.” he commanded. Bukhari, Savin, 30/49; Muslim, Siam, 13/58. See also Shaybani, 368. Fasting Visal (two days and one night without eating) is makruh according to the Hanafi Sect. 832-) From Imam-i  Malik: Zihar Zihar: "You are like my mother's back to me." is to say. As a result, atonement is paid. If a person commits a mistake or kills a person and is obliged to expiate two months of uninterrupted fasting, when he starts the penance fast, if he falls ill and faints, he pauses the fast, and when he recovers, he resumes from where he fell. He does not delay the fast due to illness. This is the best judgment I've heard on this subject. 
833-) If a woman who accidentally kills a man and starts to do the obligatory penance sees menstruation during fasting, she will continue 
her fast after she is cleansed, and she does not delay her penance just because she has had her menstruation. 
834-) A person for whom penance is obligatory for two months without interruption can only break his fast due to illness and menstruation. 
Traveling is not a reason to interrupt the expiation fast. These are the best I've heard on the subject. 

835-) From Imam-i  Malik: I heard from the scholars: If a person gets sick, if fasting because of his illness makes him tired and puts him in a very difficult situation, he can break his fast. A person who finds it difficult to stand in prayer and is in a difficult situation because of this, can also pray sitting. Allah knows better the apology of his servant. The religion of Allah is easy. ta'ala has allowed not to fast on a journey, however, one can endure fasting during a journey better than a sick person. In the Qur'an, it is stated, "Those among you who are sick or on a journey will keep it on other days as much as the days they do not catch...". This is the best story. There is consensus on this. 836-) From Imam-i  Malik: Said b. To Musayyeb: Can a person who dedicates to fasting for a month keep a voluntary fast? he was asked. Said said: "Let him keep his vow before it becomes superfluous". 837-) Imam-i  Malik: b. I have heard such a fatwa of Yesar. 
838-) If a person dies while dedicating to freeing a slave, fasting, giving alms or giving ransom to the house, if he wills that his vow be fulfilled from his property, alms and camel ransom are given from the third of his property. Likewise, they are given priority over others, because obligatory offerings are not like nafilahs, so they are paid from one third of the estate, not from the whole. Because, if it were possible to pay for this job from all of his property, then he would delay the worships that are obligatory for a lifetime until he dies, the property is inherited, and it is no longer possible to perform these worships. Perhaps these payments would cover all his property. The person had no such authority. 839-) From Imam-i  Malik: Abdullah b. 'Umar said, 'Can a person fast or pray on behalf of another?' it was asked. He said: No one can fast or pray for another person! gives the answer 840-) Halit b. From Eslem; Umar b. Khattab broke his fast, thinking that the sun had set on a cloudy Ramadan day and it was evening. A little later a man came and said: Commander of the believers! The sun is out!” said. Then Omar: It's easy to make up for!» He replied, “We have ijtihad. According to Shaybani, 366. According 
to his sect, those who break the fast with the thought that the sun has set, will make up the fast for the rest of the day by acting like a 
fasting person. Malik says: By saying "it's easy to make up for", Hazrat Umar meant to make accident, to make it easy for us—God  knows —and  he wanted to say "we will fast for a day instead". 44. As it is mentioned in the hadith, he said this after he broke his fast, thinking that the sun had set. 841-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar used to say: "A person who misses Ramadan fasting due to illness or travel will keep it uninterrupted when he starts to fast." Shaybani, 361. 842-) From Ibn Shihab: Abdullah b. Abbas and Abu Huraira disagreed on whether the accidental Ramadan fasts could be kept continuously or intermittently. One said "it can be held at intervals", the other said "it must be kept continuously". But I don't remember which one said "intermittent" and which one said "continuous". According to the sect of Shaybani, 362, it is best to keep the accident fast uninterrupted 843-) Abdullah b. from Ömer; A person who vomits willingly while fasting has to make up for that day's fast. 
There is no need for accident for a person who vomits unintentionally. Shaybani, 358. The madhhab takes this hadith as evidence about vomiting. 
844-) Yahya b. From Said: Said b. Musayyeb was asked about the accident of the Ramadan fast. He said: “I think it is best to keep the missed Ramadan fasts uninterrupted once they start.” 845-) From Imam-i  Malik: It is not necessary to make up again for those who miss Ramadan fasting intermittently. Having it held on various days is enough to pay off his debt. But I think it's best to keep them all in a row without a break. 
846-) If he eats or drinks something by mistake or forgetting while he is fasting in Ramadan or a fast that is obligatory for him, that day must be made up. 847-) Humayd b. From Kays al-Makki:  I was with the mujahid while he was circumambulating the Baytullah. Someone came to him and asked: Will the penance fasts be kept consecutively or intermittently?' she asked. Then I immediately said: Yes, he can keep it at intervals if he wants.” I replied. If the mujahid: No, he keeps it uninterrupted. Because Ubay b. It is said in the recitation of the heart, three days in a row.” he objected. 848-) From Imam-i  Malik: In my opinion, what Allah Almighty has appointed in the Qur'an is "consistently held". 849-) Imam-i  Malik was asked the following question: "A woman got up in the morning in Ramadan, fasting. Even though there was no moon state, all of a sudden a pure blood divorced. He waited until evening to come again, but he did not come. The next day, another blood came out again, but this time less than the first day. Later, this blood was stopped before the menstrual days. What does a woman in this situation do her prayer and fasting? Imam-i  Malik replied: "This is menstrual blood. When he sees it, he should break his fast immediately, he will make up later. When the blood stops, let him make a ghusl and fast.” 
850-) It was asked whether a person who became a Muslim in the last days of Ramadan would fast only on the days when he became a Muslim or would he keep the whole Ramadan. Malik: "He does not make up for the past, it starts from the day he became a Muslim. In my opinion, the best thing to do is to make up the day he became a Muslim.” 851-) From Ibn Shihab: Hadrat Aisha and Hafsa got up fasting in the morning. Food was brought to them. 
They broke their fast by eating it. Meanwhile, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to them. Hadrat Hafsa started talking 
right before Hadrat Aisha (she was her father's daughter): Messenger of Allah! Aisha and I had intended to fast for sahur, but 
we broke our fast when we saw that someone was bringing us a gift of food!” said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be 
upon him) said: "Then you can make a qada for another day." Ibn Abdilbar says: "It is authentic only as a mursal from Malik." It 
is also narrated as: Abu Dawud, Savm, 14/73; Tirmidhi, Savm, 6/13 852-) From Imam-i  Malik: It is not necessary to make up 
for a person who breaks his voluntary fast by forgetting or accidentally (accidentally) eating and drinking. However, he should 
not continue to eat and drink because my fast was broken, and he should complete the fast until the evening of that day. If a 
person who performs voluntary fasts has a situation that compels him to break his fast, it is not necessary for him to make up 
for it. However, the main purpose of a person in this situation should not be to break his fast. The reason for breaking his fast 
must be an apology. This is the same with the nafilah prayer. If his wudu is broken due to a reason beyond his control, and it 
is impossible to perform wudu again, that prayer does not have to be made up. 853-) From Imam-i  Malik: He should not attempt 
to perform these prayers, fasting, pilgrimage, and similar useful acts of worship unless he has the opportunity to complete them 
in vain. For example, when he starts a prayer and utters the takbir of iftitah, he should offer two rak'ahs. When he starts fasting, 
he should keep it until the evening of that day. When he enters ihram, he must complete his circumambulation, and when he 
begins circumambulation, he must do seven shawts. A prayer that has been started must be completed without leaving it. 

However, he may quit due to illnesses that may happen to human beings and excuses that prevent the continuation of his 
worship. That's why Allah Almighty says in the Noble Qur'an: "Eat and drink at night until the white thread is distinguished 
from the black thread, that is, at dawn." he commands. In that case, it is obligatory for him to complete the fast he started. 
in another verse: "Complete the pilgrimage and umrah that you started for Allah" Bakara, 2/196. is called. Because it is not 
right for a Muslim who performs the obligatory pilgrimage to postpone another voluntary pilgrimage that he has started, to 
leave the ihram and turn from the road. Anyone who starts nafilah worship should not leave it unfinished, just as he/she  has 
completed the obligatory worship.” This is the best thing I've heard. ÿeybanî, 363 854-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to 
what I heard, Enes b. When Malik was too old to fast, he would pay the ransom. (He used to feed a poor person for every 
day he could not keep.) 855-) From Imam-i  Malik; In my opinion, it is not necessary to give fidyah instead of fasts that he 
could not keep, he will keep it when he gets better. If he has to give a ransom, he gives a mudd-i  Nabi (one mud is half a 
kilo) of food to a poor person every day. 856-) From Imam-i  Malik: Abdullah b. What should a pregnant woman do to Umar 
if she is afraid that the child in her womb may be harmed because of her fasting?» he was asked. Abdullah: He does not 
fast, for every day he does not fast he gives a mud of wheat to a poor person.» gave the answer. 857-) Imam-i  Malik says: 
Based on the command of Almighty Allah in the verse: "If one of you gets sick or goes on a journey, he will make up for the 
days he missed", and that the fear of the child in the womb is also a kind of disease, and therefore pregnant women. They 
argue that the woman should make up for the fasts she does not keep. 

858-) From Abdurrahman's father Kasÿm: Whoever has recovered from the missed Ramadan fast and still has not made 
up for it even though the Ramadan of the following year has come, he will give a mud of wheat to a poor person for each 
missed fast, and also make up their fast. 859-) From Imam-i  Malik; Said b. I had heard a similar fatwa of Jubayr. 

860-) From Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): If I could not fast in Ramadan, I 
could make up my remaining fast in the month of Sha'ban the following year. Bukhari, Savm, 30/40; Muslim, Siam, 13/151. 

861-) From Imam-i  Malik: I have heard that scholars forbade fasting on the last day of Sha'ban (yewm-i-shek).  If a person 
intends to fast for Ramadan without seeing the crescent that day, and then someone who is reliable and says that it is really 
Ramadan that day, he will make up for that day -because he did not see the crescent that started the fast. Scholars did not 
see any harm in fasting voluntary evacuees. Malik says: According to us, it is like this. The scholars of Madinah are of the 
same opinion. 

862-) From Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): The Messenger of Allah 
(pbuh) used to fast as much as we can say he never goes without fasting, and he used to spend days without fasting as 
much as we can say he keeps fasting all the time. I have not seen anyone fasting the whole month other than Ramadan. I 
have never seen him fast in any month more than he did in Sha'ban. Bukhari, Savm, 30/52; Muslim, Siam, 13/175. 

863-) It was narrated from Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He is a shield, 
fasting for him, not to say a bad word or to be ignorant. If someone taunts him with hands or words, I am fasting! 
I'm fasting! say.» Bukhari", Savm, 30/2; Muslim, Siyam, 13/1163 864-) Abu 
Hurayra narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I swear by Allah, with whom I live by his power and will, that the 
mouth odor of a fasting person is in Allah's sight. more beautiful than musk. 

Allah Almighty says in the holy hadith: "My servant leaves his food, drink and all his desires for me. Fasting is for my sake, only I can reward it. The reward for every good deed is from ten to seven hundred times, but fasting is for me, and only I can reward it.” Bukhari, Savm, 30/2; Muslim, Siam, 13/163. 
865-) From Abu Huraira: When the month of Ramadan comes, the gates of Paradise are opened, those of Hell are closed, and the devils are bound. Here, the hadith is included as mawquf. It has also been reported as Mawsul: Bukhari, Savm, 30/5; Muslim, Siyam, 13/1. 866-) Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard from scholars; They did not find it makruh for a fasting person to use the miswak at any time of the day during Ramadan. Again, I have not heard that anyone from the people of science considers it abominable or forbids it. 867-) From Imam-i  Malik: I have not seen any scholar or jurist who fasted for six days after Eid al-Fitr. 
I did not receive any narration from any of the Companions on this matter. However, scholars say that these six days of some ignorant people Fearing that they would include it in Ramadan and fabricate a bid'ah, they found it makruh. If the scholars had given permission in this regard, they would have seen that they also fasted for six days after Eid. 868-) From Imam-i  Malik: I have not seen any scholar, jurist and their followers forbid fasting on Friday. Fasting on Friday is good. I saw that some scholars did. So much so that they would almost wait to fast that day. 
869-) From Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered Itikaf, he would stick his head out to me from the window, and I would wash and comb. He took it out from where he was in Itikaf only for major and minor ablutions. Bukhari, I'tikaf, 33/3; Muslim, Hayd, 3/6. See also Shaybani, 377. The Hanafi sect takes this hadith as evidence regarding the practice of i'tikaf. 870-) From Abdurrahman's daughter Amre: When Hazrat Aisha entered Itikaf, she would ask about the condition of the sick while walking without stopping in one place. 871-) From Imam-i  Malik: A person who practices i'tikaf does not go out for any business, and does not help anyone. He can only go out for major and minor ablutions. If someone had to go out for business, it would be more appropriate to go out to visit the sick, for the funeral prayer and for the funeral ceremony, but he cannot go out even for these. 872-) A person who commits i'tikaf does not have i'tikaf unless he avoids things that his i'tikaf would not do, such as visiting the sick or going to the funeral prayer. There is no harm in going out of the place where he is only for the sake of defence. 873-) From Imam-i  Malik: Can a person who believes in Ibn Shihab go under the ceiling for defence? I asked. Yes, it's okay!» gave the answer. 
874-) There is no disagreement among us Medinans on this issue either. From Malik: Itikaf is performed in every mosque where Friday prayers are performed. If I think that i'tikaf is makruh in masjids where Friday prayers are not performed, it is because the i'tikaf has to go to another masjid for Friday prayer or leaves Friday. It is not obligatory for a person who is in Itikaf to go to another mosque for Friday prayer. I do not see any objection to performing Itikaf in the mosque where Friday prayers are not performed. Because Allahu ta'ala stated: "While you are in i'tikaf in the masjids..." Bakara, 2/187, indicated that all masjids would be involved in i'tikaf, and he did not designate a special masjid for i'tikaf. Malik says: It is understood from this verse that I'tikaf is permissible in mosques where Friday prayers are not performed, because it is not obligatory for him to go to a mosque on Friday. Malik says: Whoever enters Itikaf cannot sleep anywhere other than where he is. However, if his tent is in the courtyard of the mosque, he can sleep there. I've never heard anyone say that a person who practices i'tikaf can make himself a place to stay for the night. One can only stay in the mosque or in the courtyard of the mosque. One of the proofs that a person who performs i'tikaf cannot sleep on the ground other than the mosque at night is the following hadith of Hadrat Aisha: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed i'tikaf, he would only enter the house for major and minor ablutions." 875-) Imam-i  Malik says: I'tikaf is not allowed on the roof of the mosque and on the minaret. 876-) Regarding the time of i'tikaf, Imam-i  Malik says: A person who is going to perform i'tikaf must be present at the place of i'tikaf before the sun sets in order to be there on the night of the day he will perform i'tikaf. 877-) He does not deal with trade and similar affairs that other people who take i'tikaf will take care of, he only engages in i'tikaf. It is permissible for the person who i'tikaf to give orders for some important affairs, family affairs and some shopping matters, and to take care of himself without being too busy. There is no harm in taking care of all these things if they are so little that they don't keep the one too busy. 878-) Imam-i  Malik says: I have not heard from any of the scholars that any of the scholars put forward some conditions in i'tikaf. Itikaf is one of the acts of worship like prayer, fasting, pilgrimage and similar acts of worship. Whoever performs one of these acts of worship does so in accordance with the Sunnah. It is not permissible to invent something that Muslims have not done, to impose a condition that does not exist, and to invent bid'ats on this matter. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) entered i'tikaf, Muslims know how i'tikaf is. 879-) Imam-i  Malik says: Itikaf and muahedah are the same thing. Itikaf is the same for the villager and the city dweller, Shaybani, 880-) Kasÿm b. Muhammad and Abdullah b. Nafi', the freed man of Umar, narrates: According to Allahu ta'ala's following verse, there is no i'tikaf without fasting: "Eat and drink until the white thread is distinguished from the black thread at the time of Fajr (in the nights of Ramadan). Then complete the fast until the evening. When you are in i'tikaf in your masjids, do not approach your wives..." Baccarat, 2/187 Here, i'tikaf is mentioned together with fasting. Malik also says: According to us, this is the ruling. That is, there is no i'tikaf without fasting. 881-) Abu Bakr b. From Sümeyy, the freedman of Abdurrahman; Abu Bakr b. Abdurrahman had entered Itikaf, Halit b. He used to go to the attic in a closed room next to Walid's door. He would not return home without performing the Eid prayer with the congregation. 
882-) From Imam-i  Malik: I saw that some scholars practice Itikaf in the last ten days of Ramadan. They would not return to their 
homes without performing the Eid prayer with the congregation. These narrations came from virtuous people who lived and migrated. This is the best thing I've heard on the subject. 
883-) From Hadrat Aisha: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted to engage in Itikaf. When he reached the place where he would enter Itikaf, he saw that the tents of Hadrat Aisha, Hafsa and Aisha (radiyallahu anha) were set up there. He asked when he saw them. To him: The tents of Aisha, Hafsa and Aisha (radiyallahu anha)!” it said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do you think we did you a favor?" Then he turned and left without entering I'tikaf. Instead, he performed i'tikaf for ten days in Shawwal. Bukhari, I'tikaf, 33/7; Muslim, Itikaf, 14/6. 884-) To Imam-i  Malik: If a man who has committed i'tikaf in the last ten days of Ramadan gets sick a day or two later, and therefore quits i'tikaf, should he do it again when he gets better? Is it obligatory for him to enter, and if so, in which month should he enter? He was asked, Imam-i  Malik: Time makes up for this i'tikaf, which was obligatory for him in Ramadan or any other month the following year. According to what I heard, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted to enter Itikaf in a Ramadan, but he did not do it afterwards. Afterwards, he entered Itikaf for ten days in Shawwal, after Ramadan.” gave the answer. This is the hadith he narrated authentically earlier. 
It can be understood from this and similar ones that he used the expression "belaga" for a sound hadith. 885-) Those who do supererogatory i'tikaf in Ramadan and those who owe i'tikaf are subject to the same provisions regarding what to do or not to do. According to the reports that reached me, all the i'tikaf of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) were futile. 886-) From 
Imam-i  Malik: If a woman who enters i'tikaf starts menstruating later, she will return home from i'tikaf. 
Afterwards, at whatever time it is cleaned, it comes back to the mosque and continues from where it left off. If a woman for whom two months of uninterrupted fasting is obligatory becomes obligatory for her, she continues her fast after she is cleansed, and does not delay it. 887-) From Ibn Shihab: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was in i'tikaf, he only went out for major and minor ablutions. Here, it is included as a mursel. However, he had narrated it before, as mawsul. 888-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person who i'tikaf neither attends the funeral of his parents or anyone else. 
can join. 
889-) From Imam-i  Malik: There is no harm in making a marriage contract unless the person who commits Itikaf is sexually related. 890-) A woman can also be married unless there is a sexual relationship. 891-) What is haram for a person who i'tikaf to do with his wife at night is also haram during the day. 892-) We have not seen anyone who considers it makruh for men and women to marry unless there is a sexual relationship. If there is a relationship, the marriage is not permissible. It is also not makruh for a fasting person to marry. However, there is a difference between the marriage of a person who is in i'tikaf and the marriage of a person who is in ihram. One can eat, drink, visit the sick and attend the funeral. But he can't use fragrance. A person who commits i'tikaf can be oiled, put on perfume, have their hair shortened whether they are men or women, but they cannot attend the funeral, perform the funeral prayer or visit the sick. This is the sunnah for the marriage of a person who is ihram, who practices i'tikaf and who is fasting. 
893-) From Abu Said al-Khudri:  The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) practiced Itikaf in the second ten days of Ramadan for a year. When it was the twenty-first  night of Ramadan, he left I'tikaf in the morning. He said: "Whoever enters I'tikaf with me should enter it in the last ten days. Because I saw the night of power during this time, but later it was forgotten. That morning, I found myself prostrating into the mud as water flowed down my sides. Therefore, look for the night of power in the last ten days of Ramadan and in odd nights.” Saîd relates the following regarding this incident: It rained that night, and the vineyard of the mosque flowed for him... With my own eyes, I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) return with traces of water and mud on his forehead and nose on the twenty-first  morning of Ramadan. 
Bukhari, Itikaf, 33/1; Muslim, Siam, 13/213. See also Shaybani, 378. 894-) From Urwa, Hisham's father: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Search for the night of power in the last ten nights of Ramadan." It is narrated from Aisha: Bukhari, Leyletu'l-Kadr,  32/3; Muslim, Siam, 13/219. 
895-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Search for the night of power in the last seven nights of Ramadan." Muslim, Siam, 13/206. 896-) Umar b. From Abu Nadr, the freedman of Ubeydullah: Abdullah b. Unays al-Juheni  to the Prophet: Messenger of Allah! I am a person whose home is far away, tell me one night and I will come that night!” said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Come on the twenty-third  night of Ramadan!' he commanded. Ibn Abdilbar says: "This hadith is munqat." Muslim (Sÿyâm, 13/218), narrated as apo 897-) Enos b. Malik narrates: During Ramadan, the Prophet came to me and said: On this night of Ramadan, the Night of Power was shown to me. In the meantime, two people had an argument, and I plunged into them... Search for that night on the twenty-fifth,  twenty-seventh  and twenty-ninth  nights of Ramadan.” he commanded. Ibn Abdilber says: "There is no conflict with Imam-i  Malik in his script and text 898-) From Ibn Omar: Some of the Companions dreamed that the Night of Power was shown as the twenty-seventh  night of Ramadan. Thereupon, the Prophet said: I dreamed of the dream you saw on the twenty-seventh  night. I saw it too. Let him who seeks the night of power seek it on the twenty-seventh  night of Ramadan." Bukhari, Kadir Leyleti'l-Kadr,  32/2; Muslim, Shryâm, 13/205. 899-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard from reliable scholars, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) told the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) beforehand. This is why God Almighty granted him the night of Qadr, which is better than a thousand nights, so that the ummah would have done in its short life the deeds that other ummahs could not do in their long lives. 
900-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: Whoever performed the night of power with the congregation took his share from that night. 901-) From Abdurrahman's father Kasÿm: Umeys's daughter Esma, in Beyda, Muhammed b. She gave birth to Abu Bakr. When Abu Bakr informed the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about the situation, our Prophet said: Let him make a ghusl, then go into the ihram. he commanded. Muslim (Hajj, 15/109) narrates it as mawsul. 902-) Said b. Müseyyeb narrates: Esma, the daughter of Umays, was married to Muhammed b. She gave birth to Abi Bakr. Thereupon, Abu Bakr told Asma to go into ihram after making a ghusl. 903-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar used to perform ghusl before entering the ihram, to enter the ihram, when entering Mecca and to make a foundation in Arafat. See. ÿeybani, 472. 904-) ÿbrahim, his father Abdullah b. It is narrated from Hunayn: Abdullah b. Abbas and Misver b. They disagreed on Mahreme, Ebva. Abdullah; While saying, "A person in Ihram can wash his head," Misver said, "One who is in Ihram cannot wash his head." Thereupon, Abdullah b. Abbas sent me to Abu Ayyub al-Ansari,  who was washing behind curtains hanging on a rope stretched between two poles. I said hi. Who is this?" she asked. son Abdullah! Send me to you Abdullah b. Abbas sent me to ask something. How did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wash his head while in ihram? said. He lowered the curtain that was stretched on the rope with his hand and began to rub his head with his hands so that I could see him, and said to the person who was pouring water, "Pour water on my head!" said. After rubbing his head with his hands, I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) doing this.” said. Buhari, Cezau's-Sayd,  28/14; Muslim, Hajj, 15/91. See also Shaybani, 420. 
905-) Atâ b. From Abi Rebah: Omar b. While Khattab was washing, Ya'lâ b. Munye was pouring water. Omar (radiyallahu anh): pour it out!» When he says Ya'lâ (because he thinks that one cannot wash the head while in ihram): Do you want to put your burden on me? If you command, I will spill it!” said. Omar (radiyallahu anh): Pour! Water just messes up the hair.” said. ÿeybanî, 421 906-) Abdullah b. When Umar approached Mecca, he would stay at night in the Zîtuva valley, known today as Bi'ri Said, between two hills, and after performing the morning prayer there, he would enter Mecca from the highest point where Mecca could be seen, whether for Hajj or Umrah, before entering Mecca. First, he would make ghusl in Zituva, near Mecca, and would enter Mecca by ordering his companions to make ghusl as well. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/38. See also Shaybani, 472. 
907-) Nafi' narrates: Abdullah b. When Umar was in ihram, he would only wash his head when he was in a state of irritability. 
908-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what you have heard from scholars, there is no harm in washing the head with herbs such as sidr and 
marshmallow after stoning the Aqaba Jamra and before shaving. It is also halal to kill lice, shave hair, clean from dirt and wear normal clothes 
after stoning the Aqaba Cemre. ÿeybanî, 419 909-) Abdullah b. From Umar: A man said to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): 
Which clothes cannot be worn by a person with ihram? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Do not wear it, 
do not wrap a turban, do not wear shalwar, bathrobe or mest. However, those who cannot find slippers can wear them by cutting the sides of 
the mests. And do not wear any clothes that are triumphant or worn.” Bukhari, Hajj, 25/21; Muslim, Hajj, 15/1 910-) Yahya says to Malik that the 
Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever cannot find an izar (skirt that is worn below the waist) should wear a shalwar." 
A question was asked about the hadith sharif. He replied: "I have not heard this narration, I do not find it appropriate for the person in ihram to 
wear shalwar. Because the ihram of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) 

Among the clothes that he is forbidden to wear, there is also shalwar. As Mesti did, he did not make an exception for the shalwar.” Shaybani, 422. 
911-) Abdullah b. Umar narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade a person in ihram to wear a dress dyed with a khazar and versh. However, those who cannot find slippers can wear enchantment by cutting their sides. Bukhari, Libas, 77/37; Muslim, Ilacc, 15/3. See also ÿeybanî, 423. 912-) Ömer b. The freed of Khattab, Eÿlem, Abdullah b. He tells Umar: Umar b. Khattab, Talha b. 
He saw a dyed dress on Ubeydullah. Omar (radiyallahu anh): Talha, what is this dyed dress?» said. 
Talha: Commander of the believers, it is the adobe paint.” said. Thereupon, Hadrat Umar said: O you people who accept themselves 
as leaders and follow them! If an ignorant man sees this dress, he will surely say; Talha b. 
When Ubeydullah was in ihram, he was wearing dyed clothes. That's why, O dignitaries! Do not wear such dyed clothes.” said. 
Shaybani, 425. 
913-) Hisham's father, Urwa, narrates: Esma, daughter of Abu Bakr, used to wear clothes dyed yellow when she was in ihram, but 
the dye of the clothes was not victorious. 914-) To Imam-i  Malik: Is it possible to wear a dress in Ihram that has been applied with 
fragrance but the effect of the fragrance has disappeared?» he was asked. Imam-i  Malik: Yes, it is worn unless it is dyed with a 
victory or vers'. gave the answer. 
915-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar did not like the ihram's wearing a belt. 
916-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: There is nothing wrong with a person in ihram wearing a belt under his clothes. 
However, the velarm (thong) of the belt must be thin in order to connect the two ends together. From Malik: This is the best I've 
heard on the subject. 
917-) Furâfisa b. From Umayr el-Hanefi:  Osman b. I saw Affan in Ihram in Arc (three mansions from Medina), he was covering his 
face. ÿeybanî, 417 918-) Abdullah b. From Ömer: The chin is counted from the top, so it is ihram, it does not cover the chin. 
Shaybani, 418. 
919-) Nafi' narrates: Abdullah b. Omar shrouded his son Vakÿd when he died in Cuhfe with ihram, covering his head and face as well, 
saying, "If we weren't in ihram, we would have put nice scents on him." said. 920-) From Imam-i  Malik: A person acts as long as he is 
alive, and when he dies, the possibility of acting is over. 

921-) Abdullah b. From Ömer: A woman in ihram does not wear a veil or use gloves. 922-) Munzir's daughter Fatima tells: When we were with Abu Bakr's daughter Asma, we used to cover our faces when we were in ihram. 923-) From Hadrat Aisha: I used to apply perfume to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to prepare for ihram before ihram, and to get him out of ihram before tawaf. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/18; Muslim, Hajj, 15/33. 924-) Ata b. From Abi Rebah: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was in Hunayn, an Arab came to him. The shirt he was wearing had traces of yellow paint. O Messenger of Allah! I went into ihram for Umrah, what do you order me to do?" said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Take off your shirt, clean this yellow stain, and then do whatever you do in Hajj, in 'Umrah.' he commanded. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/17; Muslim, Hajj, 15/6. 925-) Umar b. From Eslem, the freedman of Khattab: Ömer b. Khattab heard a smell while he was in Genealogy. “Where does this smell come from?” he asked. Muawiya b. Abi Sufyan: It comes from me, O commander of the believers!» said. Omar (radiyallahu anh): From you? God! God!" Muawiya said: Emir! Umm Habiba drove me.” said. Thereupon, Hazrat Umar said: Go wash now!” said. ÿeybanî, 402 926-) Said b. From Züyeb: Ömer b. Khattab heard a smell while he was in Genealogy. On the side, Kathir b. There was salt. Omar (radiyallahu anh): Who does this smell come from?» she asked. Fraction: It comes from me, O commander of the believers! 
I braided my hair, I didn't want to shave." he replied. Omar (radiyallahu anh) said to him: Go to the pit at the bottom of the date and clean it thoroughly!» said. Kesir b. Salt also went and cleaned it. Shaybani, 403. 927-) Yahya b. Said, Abdullah b. Ebî Bekr and Rebia b. Abi Abdurrahman narrates: Walid b. Abdülmelik, Salim b. Abdullah and Harice b. Zayd b. He asked Thabit, "The ruling on applying perfume after stoning, shaving and before circumambulating." Salim said that he could not crawl, Harice b. Zayd b. If it is stable, they said there is no harm in crawling. 928-) From Imam-i  Malik: There is no harm in applying oil with a nice fragrance before leaving Mina before ihram and after grinding the cemre. 929-) Imam-i  Malik was asked if the person in Ihram could eat the food containing Zaferan. If the victory is cooked on fire after joining, there is no harm in eating it, if it is not cooked again after the victory is placed, the person with ihram cannot eat this dish. gave the answer. 
930-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "The people of Medina enter Ihram from Zulhulayfa, the people of Damascus from Juhfa, and the people of Najid from Karn." According to this, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said: "... Yemenis enter ihram from Yalamlam." he ordered. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/4; Muslim, Hajj, 15/13. See also ÿeybanî, 381 931-) Abdullah b. From Omar: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said that the people of Madinah came from Zulhulayfa, the people of Damascus 
He ordered the people of Juhfe and the people of Necid to enter ihram from Karn. Abdullah b. Umar narrates: I personally heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) the miqat places of the people of the three countries mentioned above, and it was also reported to me that he said: Bukhari, I'tisam, 96/16; Muslim, Hajj, 15/15. See also Shaybafi, 381. 
932-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar entered Ihram from Fur. ÿeybanî, 382. 933-) Imam-i  Malik quotes from the narrators whom he considers reliable: Abdullah b. Omar entered ihram from Iliya (from Beitul Makdis, Jerusalem). Shaybani, 383 934-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to the narrations that reached me, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went into ihram in Ci'irane while performing Umrah. Abu Dawud, Hajj, 11/80; Tirmidhi, Hajj, 7/92; Nesai, Menâsikul-Hacc,  24/104. 935-) Abdullah b. Umar narrates: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to say: "I am at your command, O Allah, order! Order, there is nothing like you, order! Praise is to you, blessings are from you, and the universe is yours. You are not like him in any way.” b. Umar himself would add to this: "... I'm at your command, order! Order, we are ready to please you. All goodness is from you, order! It is made to be attached to you and for you.” Bukhari, Hajj, 25/26; Muslim, Hajj, 15/19. See also Shaybani, 386 936-) Hisham narrates from his father, Urwa: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would pray two rak'ahs in the Zulhulayfa mosque, then he would get on his camel and go into ihram when the camel stood up. Muslim, Ilacc, 15/29. See also Shaybani, 384. 
937-) Salim b. Abdullah narrates that his father said: You are slandering the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) by saying that he went into ihram in this desert. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) did not enter ihram anywhere other than the mosque, that is, the mosque of Zulhulayfa. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/20; Muslim, Hajj, 15/23. See also Shaybani, 
385. 938-) Ubayd b. Güreye tells: Abdullah b. To Omar: Abu Abdurrahman! You're doing four things I've never seen in any of your friends." said. What are they? O Cureyc!» said. You invade (greet) only Yemen corners of Hacerülesved. I see you are wearing open slippers and a yellow dress. When you are in Mecca, everyone goes into ihram as soon as they see the crescent, and you enter on the eighth of Dhul-Hijjah.” I listed it. Abdullah b. Umar replied: The reason why I invaded the Yemeni corners is because I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) always invading these places. As for my wearing open slippers, I saw that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) was wearing slippers made from the heart and he performed ablution with it, so I prefer to wear that type of slipper. As for the color yellow, I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) dressed in this color, and I also wear clothes of that color. The reason why I did not enter the Ihram when I saw the crescent is because I have never seen the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) enter the Ihram unless his mount has set off.” Bukhari, Wudu, 4/30; Muslim, Hajj, 15/25. 939-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Ömer prayed in the Züluleyfe mosque, then got on his horse and set off. When his mount was just on the road, he would enter the ihram. 940-) From Imam-i  Malik; According to the narrations that reached me, Abdulmalik b. Marwan would pray in the Zulhulayfa mosque and would go into ihram when his mount was on the road. Eban b. Osman said. 941-) Hallad relates from his father Saib al-Ansari:  The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Gabriel came to me and told me to order my Companions and my companions to raise their voices while bringing talbiyah or tehlil." It means only one of the talbiyah or tehlil. Abu Davut Hajj, 11/26; Tirmidhi, Hajj, 7/15; Nesai, Menasiku'l-Hacc,  7/15; Nesai, Menasiku'l-Hacc,  24/55; Ibn Mace, Menasik, 25/16. See also Shaybani, 392 942-) From Imam-i  Malik: I heard the scholars say: In talbiye, women raise their voices so high that only they can hear them. 943-) From Imam-i  Malik: No one raises his voice when he is in congregation, it is enough for him and his companion to hear. However, they raise their voices in Masjid al-Haram  and Masjid-i  Mina. 944-) I heard from Imam-i  Malik that scholars welcome the talbiyah after every prayer and when climbing a hill. 
945-) From Hadrat Aisha: When we set out with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on the farewell pilgrimage, some of us went into ihram for umrah, some for hajj and umrah, and some for hajj only. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also went into ihram only for hajj. Those who entered ihram for umrah left ihram, but those who entered ihram just for hajj and for hajj did not leave ihram until the first day of eid. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/34; Muslim, Hajj, 15/118. 
946-) From Hadrat Aisha: Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) performed the fard pilgrimage. Muslim, Hajj. 15/122 947-) ... 948-) From Iman Malik: I heard the scholars say: "It is not possible for those who want to enter Ihram for Hajj-i  Ifrad and then go to Umrah." From Malik: I saw the scholars who said this in our Medina. 
949-) Cafer b. Muhammad narrates from his father: Mikdad b. Esved, Sukya'da Ali b. He entered the presence of Abi Talib. Hazrat Ali used to feed his camels gruel. Look, Osman b. Affan forbids performing the pilgrimage,” he began. Thereupon, Hazrat Ali forgot that his hands were made of flour dough and sent Osman b. He went to Affan's presence. You forbade performing the pilgrimage, right?» said. Hazrat Uthman: This is my discretion!» When he replied, Hadrat Ali was angry: “I am at your service, my God, order! I made intention for hajj and umrah (Hajj-i-kiran)!»  he left from there. 950-) From Imam-i  Malik: The situation is the same among us Medinans. A person who performs the pilgrimage does not shorten his hair, and if the victim is with him, he does not do anything that is unlawful for a person with ihram until he cuts it off. feast day He comes out of Ihram in Mina.” 951-) Süleyman b. From Yesar: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went on the farewell pilgrimage, some of the Companions went for hajj only, some only for umrah, and some went into ihram for hajj and umrah together. Those who intend only for pilgrimage and for umrah (after tawaf) did not leave the ihram, but only those who intended for umrah and entered ihram for umrah did. Suleiman b. Yesâr narrated it as a mursal. In the 36th hadith, Ebu'l-Esved  narrated it as a mewsûl with the Urve-Aisha  ticker. See. Shaybani, 393 952-) From Imam-i  Malik: I heard some scholars say: A person who wishes to enter Ihram for Hajj after entering the Ihram for Umrah will do well if he has done his circumambulation and sa'yin. Because, Ibn Umar said: "If you are prevented from circumambulating the Kaaba, we will do it as we did when we were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)" and turned to his friends and said: "Both are the same thing, bear witness that I made my intention for Hajj and Umrah together." That's what he did when he said. Bukhari, Muhsar, 27/1; Muslim, Hajj, 15/180. 953-) From Imam-i  Malik: During the farewell pilgrimage, the Companions went into Ihram for Umrah. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to them, "Let him enter the ihram for umrah with the pilgrim who has a gift (sacrifice) with him. Then he does not go out of ihram until he finishes both of them.” he commanded. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/31 (From Aisha); Muslim, Hajj, 15/111. See also ÿeybanî, 394 954-) Muhammed b. From Ebî Bekr Es-Sakafî:  On the way from Mina to Arafat, Enes b. To Malik: How were you doing today when you were with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)?' I asked. He replied: Some of us would do talbiyah if they wanted to, and some of us would say takbir. No one would find anyone odd.” Bukhari, Hajj, 25/86; Muslim, Hajj, 15/274. See also ÿeybanî, 387 955-) Cafer b. Muhammad narrates from his father: Ali b. Ebî Talib would perform talbiyah on the day of Arafah until the sun came back from low, then he would quit talbiyah. From Malik: "There were scholars who did the same in our hometown of Medina." 
956-) Abdurrahman b. Kasÿm reports from his father: When Hadrat Aisha Arafat arrived at the place of foundation, she would 
interrupt the talbiye. ÿeybani, 390 957-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. When Omar reached the Harem, he would pause the talbiyah until 
he could traverse the Kaaba and perform the sa'yi between Safa and Marwa, and then start again until he went from Mina to Arafat. 
The next day, he would give up talbiye. When he performed Umrah, he would leave the talbiyah when he entered the Harem. Bukhari, Hajj, 
25/38; Muslim, Hajj, 15/227. See also Shaybani, 389. 958-) From Ibn Shihab: Abdullah b. Omar would not perform talbiyah while 
circumambulating the Baytullah. 

959-) Alkame b. Ebî Alkame reports from his mother: Hadrat Aisha, the mother of the believers, would stay in Nemre in Arafat and then 
head to Erak. Nemre: A place name, some include it in Arafat, some consider it as a separate place from Arafat. Aisha and the people 
with her would enter the ihram from where they were, and when her mount turned towards the foundation, they would leave the talbiye. 
Aisha performed Umrah from Mecca in the month of Dhul-Hijjah  after the Hajj. 
Later, he left it and came to Juhfa at the beginning of Muharram, stayed there until the crescent appeared, and when he saw the 
crescent, he started Umrah. ÿeybanî, 391 960-) Yahya b. From Said: Umar b. On the morning he went to Arafat from Mina, Abdulaziz 
heard a loud takbir uttered. Thereupon, he immediately sent his assistants to the people: O people! Bring the talbiyah, not the takbir!» 
he announced. According to the Hanafi sect, those who perform the ifrad or breaking pilgrimage cut the talbiyah when the first stone is 
thrown in the cemre, while those who perform the umrah salute the rukn during circumambulation. 

961-) Abdurrahman b. Kasÿm reports from his father: Umar b. Khattab: Meccans! What's wrong with these people, they come without oil, 
but you come with oil? When you see the crescent, enter the ihram!” said. ÿeybanî, 514 962-) Hisham b. From Urwa: Abdullah b. Zubayr 
stayed in Mecca for nine years, and used to enter ihram for hajj at the beginning of Dhul-Hijjah.  Urve b. Zubayr would do the same with him. 
963-) From Imam-i  Malik: Meccan people and others enter the ihram from where they are for hajj. Those who come from outside and reside 
in Mecca do not go out of the harem to enter ihram. 964-) From Imam-i  Malik: For those who enter the ihram from Mecca, let them delay 
circumambulating the Kaaba, sa' between Safa and Marwa until they return from Mina. Abdullah b. Omer did the same. 965-) To Imam-i  
Malik: The month of Dhul-Hijjah  for Hajj from Mecca, whether from Medina or from another country 

How does a person who enters ihram at their head perform tawaf? they asked. He replied: Let him delay the circumambulation between Safa and Marwa, which is adjacent to sa (that is, fard). In the meantime, let him do the tawafi he wants. Let him pray two rak'ahs after every seven shawt tawaf. This is because those of the Companions who entered the ihram for pilgrimage delayed the circumambulation of the Kaaba and sa until they returned from Mina. Abdullah b. At the beginning of Dhul-Hijjah,  'Umar used to enter the ihram for pilgrimage from Mecca, and would delay the tawaf and sa' until he returned from Mina. 966-) Imam-i  Malik: "Can a Meccan resident in Mecca enter Ihram from inside Mecca for Umrah?" he was asked. Imam-i  Malik: "No, he has to go to Hill (outside the Harem) and enter the Ihram from there." your answer 
gave. 
967-) Abdurrahman's daughter Amre tells: Ziyad b. Abi Sufyan wrote a letter to Hadrat Aisha: "Abdullah b. Abbas said that those who send the sacrificial animal to those who make pilgrimage until the sacrifice is unlawful are haram. I also sent my sacrifice. Write me your order or notify the owner of the victim.” said. Hadrat Aisha answered him as follows: “It is not as Ibn Abbas said. I bent the token of the sacrifice of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) with my own hands, then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) attached it to the animal with his own hand and sent it with my father. Meanwhile, the Prophet was not deprived of anything that Allahu ta'ala made lawful for him until the sacrifice was sacrificed. 
, Hacc, 25/109; Muslim, Hajj, 15/369, See also. ÿeybanî, 398 968-) Yahya b. From Said: To Amre, daughter of Abdurrahman: Is something haram for a person who sends his gift (sacrifice) and remains himself?» I asked. He also narrated that Hadrat Aisha said: "Nothing is haram before entering ihram and starting talbiyah." 
969-) Hudayr's granddaughter Rebia b. Abdillah recounts: I saw an Iraqi man undressed. I asked the people there why this man was undressing. They replied, "He ordered that a sign be put on his sacrifice, so he undressed for it." Abdullah b. I met Zubayr and explained the situation to him. "By the Lord of the Kaaba, this is a bid'ah." said. 970-) Imam-i  Malik was asked a question: "About the 
person who prepared a sacrificial animal for himself, put on the sign of Zulhulayfa and did not enter the ihram until he came to Juhfa". He 
replied: “I did not like it, the person who did it did not hit it. Because it was not necessary before ihram to mark his sacrifice and mark it. However, if there was a person who did not want to make the pilgrimage but stayed with his family, it would have been right to do so.” 971-) To Imam-i  Malik: "Can a person send a sacrificial animal without going into ihram?" he was asked. "Yes, he can, it's okay." gave the answer. It was asked whether a person who does not want to perform Hajj or Umrah sends a sacrificial animal, whether it is considered to 
have entered ihram. He replied: In this regard, we in Madinah take the following narration of Hadrat Aisha: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 
sent the sacrificial animal, and he remained. Until the sacrifice was sacrificed, nothing that Allah had made lawful for him was unlawful for him.” 
972-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar used to say: "A woman who enters the ihram for Hajj or Umrah can do this whenever she wants. But he 
cannot circumambulate the Kaaba, nor can he count between Safa and Marwa. Apart from that, he can perform all the procedures of Hajj 
together with other people. And he cannot approach the Masjid Haram until it is cleaned.” Shaybani, 464 973-) From Imam-i  Malik: The 
Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) performed Umrah three times: in the year of Hudaybiye, in the year of Kadÿyye and in the 
year of Ci'irane. 

974-) Hisham narrates from his father, Urwa: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed only three Umrahs: One in Shawwal and two in 
Dhu'l-Qada. 
975-) Abdurrahman b. From Harmele al-Aslemi:  One of the men Said b. To Musayyeb, can I perform Umrah before Hajj?» she asked. 
Said: Yes, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed Umrah before Hajj. 

977-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: Ömer b. Ebî Seleme, Ömer b. He asked Khattab for permission to perform Umrah in Shawwal. Umar 
(radiyallahu anh) also gave permission. Umar b. Ebî Salama performed his Umrah and returned home without performing Hajj. Shaybani,47 
Bukhari (Umrah, 26/2) reports from Ibn Omar. 
978-) Hisham b. From Urve: My father used to cut the talbiyah when he entered the Harem while performing 
Umrah. 979-) Imam-i  Malik says: "The person who enters the ihram from my skin cuts the talbiyah when he sees the Baytullah." 
980-) "When will a person from Madinah or another country who starts umrah from one of the miqats stop talbiyah?" In response to his 
question, Imam-i  Malik said: "When he arrives at the Harem-i  Sharif, who enters the ihram in one of the miqats, he pauses the talbiye." he 
said. From Malik: "Abdullah b. The narration came to me that Umar also did the same.” 
981-) Nevfel b. Abdulmuttalib's grandson, Abdullah b. Muhammad, son of Haris, narrates: Sa'd b. Ebî Vakkas'la Dahhak b. Kays, Muaviye 

b. They were talking about the dividend pilgrimage in the year Ebi Sufyan made the pilgrimage. Dahhak b. 
Kays said: "Only ignorant people who do not know the command of Allah, the Exalted and Exalted, make the pilgrimage to dividends." 
Then Sa'd said: You didn't say it well, nephew!' When he said Dahhak: Omar b. Khattab forbade the dividend pilgrimage.” he replied 

gave. Sa'd replied, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made the pilgrimage dividends, and we did it together with him." Umar's dividends are included in the following books, which are prohibited from pilgrimage: Bukhari, Hajj, 25/125 (from Abu Musa); Muslim, Hajj, 15/154 982-) Abdullah b. From Umar: I swear by Allah that it is better to perform Umrah and send a sacrifice before Hajj than to perform Umrah in the month of Dhu al-Qa'ah  after Hajj. Shaybani, 448. 
983-) Abdullah b. From Omar: Whoever performs Umrah in the months of Hajj and Shawwal, Dhu'l-Qadah  and Dhul-Hijjah  before the Hajj, and then stays in Mecca and makes the pilgrimage during Hajj, this person will have made a dividend pilgrimage. It is necessary for him to sacrifice a kind of sacrifice that is convenient for him, and if he cannot find it, he must fast for three days during the pilgrimage and for seven days when he returns. Malik says: "The above situation is valid if one stays in Makkah after umrah until the time of hajj and if he performs hajj in the same year." 984-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person who is from Mecca and leaves there and resides in another place, then enters Umrah during the hajj months, comes to Mecca and stays there until the time of hajj, and when the hajj time comes, a person who performs the pilgrimage is a dividend, for him. If he cannot find a sacrifice, he must fast. Because this person is not like a Meccan. 985-) To Imam-i  Malik: Is a person who is not a Meccan but comes to Mecca by performing Umrah during the Hajj months and wishes to stay in Mecca until the time of Hajj and perform the Hajj pilgrimage? he was asked. Imam-i  Malik replied: Yes, he is considered to have made a pilgrimage to dividends, although he stayed in Mecca, he is not like a Meccan, he came there from outside. For this reason, the sacrifice required for non-Meccan  people and fasting becomes obligatory for such people if they cannot find a sacrifice. Since such a person is not from Mecca, he does not know what to show him the situation later on.” ÿeybanî, 451 986-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: Whoever performs umrah in one of the months of Shawwal, Dhu al­Qa'da or Dhul-Hijjah  and resides in Mecca until the time of hajj and performs the pilgrimage, that person will have made a dividend pilgrimage. He makes a sacrifice that comes easy to him, but if he cannot find an animal, he fasts for three days on pilgrimage and seven days upon his return. If he performs the pilgrimage every year, he does not need a sacrifice. Because sacrifice is a must for those who perform Umrah during the Hajj months and reside in Mecca until the time of Hajj. 
988-) Whoever comes to Mecca from other countries, resides there and performs the pilgrimage during the hajj months and then performs the pilgrimage is not considered to have made the pilgrimage. Therefore, it is not necessary to sacrifice for him or to fast if he cannot find it. He is almost like a Meccan. 989-) "If a person from Mecca, who goes to the border or any other journey, returns there by wanting to reside in Mecca, whether he has a family in Mecca or not, and performs his hajj there, by performing umrah during the hajj months, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) If he enters in one of the miqats or more inside, will this person have paid dividends for the pilgrimage?” Imam-i  Malik gave the following answer to the question: Sacrifice or fasting, which are obligatory for those who perform the pilgrimage, are not necessary. Because Allah Almighty says in the Quran; «This (provision); The people of it are for those who do not live (around) Masjid al-Haram.” (Baqara,  2/196) said. 990-) Abu Huraira narrates that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Umrahs are expiation for the sins committed between two Umrahs; The reward for the accepted pilgrimage is no other place than Paradise.” Bukhari, Umrah, 26/1; Muslim, Hajj, 15/437. 991-) Abu Bakr b. From Abdurrahman: A woman came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) and said: I was prepared for the pilgrimage, there was an obstacle!' said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him: 'Umrah in Ramadan, because it is like hajj'. Abu Dawud, Hajj, 11/79; Tirmidhi, Hajj, 7/95; Nesai, Siam, 24/6; Ibn Mace, Hajj (menâsik), 25/45. See also ÿeybanî, 450. 992-) Ömer b. From Khattab: Distinguish between Hajj and Umrah. Because leaving time between hajj and umrah is better than performing umrah outside of hajj months and in terms of completeness of your umrah. 993-) Imam-i  Malik said: According to what I heard, Osman b. Affan would not get off his mount until he returned to Madinah from some of his Umrahs. 994-) Imam-i  Malik said: Umrah is sunnah. I do not know of any Muslim who allowed him to be abandoned. 995-) Imam-i  Malik said: I am not of the opinion that anyone should perform Umrah several times a year. 996-) Imam-i  Malik said: If a person who goes to Umrah has relations with his family, he has to sacrifice an animal and enter Umrah again. When entering the ihram again, one should enter the ihram from the same place where he entered the first ihram. If this place is far from the miqat, he can enter from the miqat. 997-) From Imam-i  Malik: If a person who has entered Umrah circumambulates the Kaaba without being junub or without wudu, performs sa'yi between Safa and Marwa, and then has sexual relations with his family and then remembers them, he performs ghusl or He performs ablution, then performs circumambulation and sa'yin, then performs Umrah again and sacrifices. The woman does the same thing even if she has sexual intercourse with her husband while she is in ihran. 998-) From Imam-i  Malik: If a person who wants to start Umrah wants to leave the Harem, he will do so. 
enters the ihram. For, it is better to enter ihram from a place farther from the miqats appointed by the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) or from Tan'im. 
999-) Süleyman b. From Yesar: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) sent Abu Rafi and a person from the Ansar, and he married Haris's daughter, Meymune, as his proxy. He himself had not yet left Medina. 
1000-) The brother of Abduldar's sons, Nübeyh b. From Wahb: Eban b. When Uthman was the pilgrim order, Umar b. 
Ubeydullah sent him a message saying, "Shayba b. Jubayr's daughter Talha b. I want to marry Omar, so I want you to be 
there too.” At that time, both Omar and Eban were in Ihram. Thereupon, Eban said: I, Osman b. From Affan, I heard the 
Prophet said, "A person who is in Ihram cannot marry another person, marry for someone else, and ask for a girl." Muslim, 
Nikah, 16/41. See also Shaybani, 436. 

1001-) Ebû Gatafan b. From Tarîf al-Murri:  My father Tarif married a woman while he was in ihram. Umar b. Khattab did not 
accept this marriage. Shaybani, 438. 
1002-) Abdullah b. From Omar: A person who is in ihram cannot marry for someone else, nor can he ask for a girl. ÿeybanî, 
437 1003-) From Imam-i  Malik: Sa'd b. Museyyeb; Salim b. Abdillah and Süleyman b. Yesar was asked a question "about 
the marriage or marriage status of a person in Ihram". They answered: A person who is in ihram can neither marry for 
himself nor marry for someone else. 

1004-) "Can a person who has divorced his wife go back to his wife who has not yet expired while in Ihram?" Imam-i  
Malik answered the question: If the period of iddah has not expired, if the man wants to return to his wife while he is still 
in ihram, he can return.' According to the Hanafi Sect, those with ihram can be married, but kissing and intercourse are 
prohibited 1005-) Süleyman b. From Yesar: While the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was in Ihram, he had 
blood drawn from his head in Lahyey Jamel. Jamel: It is the name of a place closer to Medina on the way to Mecca. Buhari, 
Cezau's Sayd, 28//11; Muslim, Hajj, 14/88. 

1006-) Abdullah b. From Ömer: A person in ihram cannot have blood drawn unless he has to. 1007-) 
Imam-i  Malik also states the following about this issue: A person in ihram can have blood drawn only in case 
of necessity. Shaybani, 416,521 1008-) Abu Qatada narrates: I was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on my 
way to Mecca. I was without ihram, I broke up with some friends with ihram. By the way, I saw a wild ass. Standing up on 
my horse, I asked my friends for my whip, they didn't give it. I asked for my reading, but they didn't give it to me either. 
Finally, I took it myself and shot the wild ass. Some companions ate from its meat, some did not. When they reached the 
Prophet, they asked him about the situation, and our Prophet replied: "It is a kind of sustenance, Allah fed you it." Bukhari, 
Jihad, 56/88; Muslim, Hajj, 15/57. See also Shaybani, 443 1009-) Hisham's father narrates from Urve: Zubayr b. Avvam used 
to buy dried gazelle meat for food while entering ihram. Shaybani, 443. 

1010-) Zayd b. From Eslem: What Abu Qatada told about the wild ass is also told here. However, in the words of the 
Prophet, "... Do you have any of his meat with you?" There is an addition. 
1011-) Bahzi narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) set out for Mecca, he was in Ihram. When they came to Revha, they 
suddenly saw a wounded wild ass. They informed the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about the situation. Our 
Prophet: Wherever he is, his owner comes!” he commanded. Meanwhile, Behzi came. He was the owner of the wild ass. 
To the Prophet: O Messenger of Allah! If you want, I can give you this animal." said. Our Prophet gave orders to Abu Bakr 
and divided the meat of the animal among those present. Eating the wild ass was later prohibited. they continued on their 
way. When they came to Ussabe, between Ruveys and Arc, they saw that a gazelle in the shade, with its head between its 
legs, was moaning while the arrow was still stuck in its body. Thereupon, the Prophet ordered a man to wait until the back of 
the caravan was cut off so that no one would disturb the injured animal. Nesai, Menasik'ul Hajj, 24/78. See also Shaybani, 

442. Rawha: A place between Mecca and Medina. The name of a place or a well. A place name. A position among Haremeyn 1012-) Abu Huraira tells: I went to Bahrain. When I arrived in Rebeze, I came across a convoy from Iraq. They were ihram. They asked if they could eat the game they bought from a Rebeze local. I said they can eat. I doubted whether it would be eaten afterwards. When he came to Medina, his situation was Umar b. I told Khattab: Hazrat Umar: What did you answer?' she asked. Me: I said they can eat it." said. Upon this, Hadrat Umar said: What would I have done to you if you had given another answer? (I mean, I would punish!)” he said. Shaybani, 442. A place near Medina. Bahrain: A place between Basra and Oman. 
1013-) Abu Huraira, Abdullah b. He tells Ömer: I met a group of people with ihram in Rebeze. They asked me for a fatwa about game meat. They saw a group of people without ihram eating game meat and bought some meat from them. I said they can eat it too. Then he came to Medina and Umar b. I went before Khattab. status 
I also asked him. What fatwa did you give?” said. When I replied: "You can eat it," I replied: "If you had given a different fatwa, I would definitely punish you." said. 1014-) Ata b. From Yesar: Ka'bul Ahbar met a group of people near Damascus. After walking for a while on the road, they found game meat. Ka'b told them that they could eat this meat. When they came to Medina, their situation was 'Umar b. They told Khattab. Hadrat 'Umar said to them: Who gave you the fatwa that you can beat them?' she asked. They said: Ka'b. Upon this, Hadrat Umar said: I had appointed him as your president until he returned. said. Later, this group met a swarm of locusts somewhere on the way to Mecca. Ka'b told them that they could catch the locusts and eat them. Umar b. As for Khattab, they also presented this situation. Hazrat Umar: On what basis did you give this fatwa? she asked. Ka'b said: "To the sea hunt!" he replied. Hazrat Umar: "What do you know?" said. Ka'b: O commander of the believers! I swear by Allah, whose strength and will I live, they are no different from the fish that wash up on the shore several times a year.” said. 1015-) To Imam-i  Malik: Can a person with ihram buy game meat found on the road? he was asked. He replied: If it is hunted for the pilgrim candidate and offered to him, I think he cannot buy it. If a person without an ihram has hunted for himself and a person with ihram has come across it by chance, he can buy it, there is no harm. 1016-) From Imam-i  Malik: If a person enters ihram with game meat that he has hunted or bought before, it is not necessary to send this meat to his family, but there is no harm in sending it.' 1017-) From Imam-i  Malik: Fish caught in rivers, lakes and similar places are halal for those with ihram, they can be hunted.' ÿeybanî, 444 1018-) Sa'b b. Cessame al-Leysi  narrates: I gave a wild donkey to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He was in Ebva (or Veddan) at that time. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not accept the gift. When I saw that I was upset over this: I would never have refused, 
but we are in ihram.” he commanded.” Bukhari, Cezau's-Sayd,  28/6; Muslim, Hajj, 15/50. See also Shaybanî, 441. Ebva: A place twenty-three  miles away from Medina Veddan: A large village between Juhfe and Ebva, closer to Juhfe. 
1019-) Abdurrahman b. amir b. From Rebia: Osman b. I saw Affan in ihram on the Arc one summer day. 
His face was covered with a fringed drape made of red wool. Then game meat was brought to him. 
To his friends: Eat!» said. They: Aren't you eating?' they asked. Osman (radiyallahu anh): I am not in your situation. This prey was 
hunted for me.” 
1020-) From Urve: The mother of the believers, Aisha (radiyallahu anh), said to Urve: My niece is already ten nights. If in 
doubt, do not eat game meat. It is the first ten days of the month of Dhul-Hijjah,  which Hadrat Aisha already called ten nights. 
What happens if you don't eat game meat for ten days? he means. It also points to the abandonment of what is doubted about 

religious matters. 

1021-) Imam-i  Malik: "What happens if a hunt is made for a person in Ihram, and if the person in Ihram eats from it 
even though he knows that this hunt was shot for him?" it said. Imam-i  Malik replied, "He will be punished as if he had shot the 
prey himself." 1022-) "You can either hunt someone in Ihram or eat the meat of a dead animal! What does he do if he is used 
forcefully?» Imam-i  Malik answers the question: “He eats the meat of a dead animal. Because Allah Almighty did not allow the 
ihram person to eat game meat and catch game no matter what the situation was. However, he allowed him to eat the meat of 
dead animals in case of necessity.” 1023-) "No one can eat the game animal killed or slaughtered by the Ihram, whether it is with 
Ihram or without Ihram. Because it is not legitimately cut. It is haram to eat this meat knowingly or unknowingly.” 

1024-) A person who shoots a game animal and then eats it needs only atonement, like a person who shoots the game and does not eat it. 1025-) From Imam-i  Malik: It is not halal to eat anything that is hunted in the Harem, and the game 
that is killed in the Hill (where it is not obligatory to be in ihram) by releasing a dog in the Harem. Those who do these will be punished by hunting. If the dog sent on the hunt catches the prey within the Harem, this prey will not be eaten. However, there is no penalty for doing so. It is essential not to let the dog attack from a place close to the Harem. If he unleashed his dog on the hunt from a place close to the Harem, a hunting penalty is required. 1026-) From Imam-i  Malik: Allahu ta'ala said in the Qur'an: "O you who believe! Do not kill the prey while in ihram. For those who kill him deliberately, there are two just people among you who 
will judge as much as he killed from domestic animals, to pay a sacrifice that will reach the Kaaba, or to make atonement in the form of giving food to the needy, or to fast to taste the weight of what he has done. » Surah Maida, 95. From Malik: A person who kills an animal that he hunted before entering ihram is like a person who buys it while in ihram and then slaughters it. God has forbidden this. There is a penalty for doing so. Among the people of Medina, a penalty is given against the person who hunts and hits while he is in Ihram. 1027-) Imam-i  Malik also says the following regarding the punishment of hunting in the Harem-i  sharif: The best judgment I have heard about those who hunt is as follows: The value of the hunted animals is valued in terms of food, and the daily food of every poor person is calculated as one mud, or one day instead of every hour 
fasting is calculated. Thus, it is necessary to fast according to the number of poor people who need to be fed. For example, if it 
is necessary to give one mudluk meal to ten poor people every day, but if this is not possible, ongun fasting is kept. 
If the number of poor people who need to be fed is twenty, they fast for twenty days, and if it is sixty, sixty days are kept. 
1028-) Regarding the punishment of a person who hunts without ihram in the Harem, Imam-i  Malik says: 

1029-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "There are five kinds of animals that there is no sin in killing them: a crow, a rookie, a scorpion, a mouse, and an aggressive dog." , Cezau's-Sayd,  28/1; Muslim, Hajj, 15/76. See also Shaybani, 427. 
1030-) Abdullah b. Umar narrates that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "There are five kinds of animals that whoever kills them while in ihram has no sin for himself: scorpion, mouse, crow, kitten, and aggressive dog." , Bedul-Halk,  59/16; Muslim, Hajj, 15/79. See also Shaybani, 428 1031-) Hisham narrates from his father, Urwa: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 
said: "There are five rebels who can be killed in the Harem: rat, scorpion, crow, kitten, and aggressive dog." Muslim (Hajj, 15/68) narrates it as mawsul. 1032-) From Ibn Shihab: Omar b. Khattab ordered the snakes in the Harem to be killed. 1033-) From Imam-
i Malik: The aggressive dog ordered to be killed within the Harem; They are animals that frighten everyone, such as lions, tigers, 
leopards and wolves that attack everyone. There are also predators that do not attack. For example, hyena, fox cat and others like 
them. A person with ihram cannot kill. If he kills, he gives a ransom. 
1034-) A person with ihram cannot kill the birds that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) said, which do 
no harm other than the crow and the kite. If he kills, he has to pay a ransom. Shaybani, 429. 
1035-) Rabia b. Abi Abdullah b. From Hüdeyr: Ömer b. I saw Khattab cleaning his camel's ticks with soil in Sukya. He 
was in ihram at that time. Sukya: A large village between Mecca and Medina. Malik: "I do not approve of such a thing." 
Shaybani, 433. 
1036-) Alkame b. Ebî Alkame relates from his mother: I heard that Hadrat Aisha was asked whether the person with 
ihram could scratch his body. Hazrat Aisha: Yes, you scratch. If my hands were tied, I would scratch with my feet.” 
Shaybani, 435. 
1037-) Eyyüb b. From Musa: Abdullah b. While Umar was in Ihram, he looked in the mirror because of a pain in his eye. 
1038-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar would not like it well for a person with ihram to clean his camel's ticks. Shaybani, 432 
1039-) Abu Meryem's grandson, Muhammad b. From Abdullah: Said b. I asked Museyyeb a question about my broken nail. 
Said replied, "Cut it out". 1040-) Imam-i  Malik said, "Is there anything wrong with a person who complains about a pain in 

his ear, dripping odorless bane (drops of sorghum tree) into his ear while he is in Ihram?" he was asked. He said: I see no 
harm. 

However, it is more correct to drip this plant orally. 1041-) From Imam-i  Malik: If 
it is necessary for a person with ihram to split his pimple, burst a boil, or cut the root, he can do these things. 

1042-) Abdullah b. From Abbas: Fadl b. Abbas was in the leave of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Meanwhile, a woman from the Has'am tribe came to our prophet and wanted to ask something. Fadl and the woman exchanged glances. Seeing this, our prophet turned Fadl's head to the other side. Woman: O Messenger of Allah! Going on pilgrimage became obligatory for my old father, but he cannot stand on that mount. Can I go on the pilgrimage instead?” she asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Yes.” he commanded. The incident took place during the farewell pilgrimage. , Hacc, 25/1; Muslim, Hajj, 1/407. See also Shaybani, 481. 1043-) From Imam-i  Malik: A person who is besieged by the enemy and prevented from circumambulating the Baytullah, comes out of the ihram, cuts his sacrifice, and shaves in the place where it is besieged. This person also does not crash. 1044-) According to the narration that came to me, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and his Companions did this in Hudaybiyya. They slaughtered their victims, had their hair shaved, and began to circumambulate the Baytullah, to do everything that was forbidden to the people of ihram, before the victims reached it. It is not known that the Prophet then said anything about the accident and return of this circumambulation, which they could not do to either one of his companions or his companions. 1045-) Nafi' narrates: Abdullah b. When Umar set out for Mecca when political turmoil (fitna) broke out, he said: "If we are prevented from circumambulating the Baytullah, we will do as we did together when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was alive." Later, he entered the ihram for Umrah just as the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered ihram for Umrah in Hudaybiyah. Later, Abdullah looked at the situation: "Hajj and umrah are the same thing." He turned to his friends and finished his words by saying: "Both are the same, bear witness that I intend to perform Hajj and Umrah together". Then he came to Baytullah and made a single circumambulation, seeing this as sufficient, he sent his sacrifice. Bukhari, Maghazi, 64/35; Muslim, Hajj, 15/180. 
1046-) From Imam-i  Malik: Among us Medinans, the situation of a person besieged by the enemy is like the situation of our Prophet and 
his companions who were besieged. However, if he cannot circumambulate due to another obstacle, not from the enemy, he cannot 
leave the ihram without circumambulating the Baytullah. ÿeybanî, 394 1047-) Abdullah b. From Omar: A person who is ill-feeling  cannot 
leave Ihram unless he circumambulates the Baytullah and sa'y between Safa and Marwa. In this case, if he has to wear his clothes and 
take medicine, he will do these things, but he has to give a ransom. Shaybani, 508. 

1048-) From Hadrat Aisha: A person with ihram cannot leave ihram unless he circumambulates the Baytullah. 
1049-) Eyyub b. Abi Tamime as-Sahtiyani  narrates from a man from Basra: I set out for Mecca, after a while, my thigh bone was 
broken. I sent word to Mecca. Abdullah b. Abbas, Abdullah b. Omar and none of the others allowed me to leave the ihram. In that state, 
I had to live by the water for seven months. Then I went out of Ihram by performing Umrah. 

1050-) Abdullah b. From Omar: A person who is ill (who cannot reach the Kaaba) due to an illness before reaching Baytullah 
cannot go out of ihram without circumambulating the Kaaba and saying sa'y between Safa and Marwa. 
1051-) Süleyman b. From Yesar: Said b. Huzabe al-Mahzumi  fell ill with epilepsy on the way to Mecca. He was from Ihram. 
Asking someone who came to the water on the way, Abdullah b. Umar, Abdullah b. Zubayr and Marwan b. Found the referee. He 
told them what had happened to him. All of them said that he needed to be treated and to give a ransom, to perform Umrah when 
he was healed, to leave the ihram, and to perform the Hajj next year and sacrifice a suitable sacrifice. Malik says: The situation of those 
who become mushsar (who cannot go to the Kaaba) due to an obstacle other than the enemy is the same among us Medinans. 

1052-) Abu Ayyub al-Ansari  and Hebbar b. When Aswad could not make it to the pilgrimage, and when they arrived on the day of Eid, 
Hazrat Umar ordered them to go out of ihram by performing umrah, and then to return without ihram. He also ordered them to perform 
their pilgrimage the next year, to sacrifice, and if they could not find it, they should fast for three days on pilgrimage and seven days after 
returning, for a total of ten days. 1053-) From Imam-i  Malik: After entering Ihram, people who remain muhshar due to obstacles such as 
illness, straying the days, straying the month, that is, those who could not perform their pilgrimage on time, are considered muhshar. 
Muhsar do what the rest should do. 1054-) When Imam-i  Malik was asked, "The situation of a person from Mecca who enters Ihram for Hajj 
and then has a broken part or suffers from severe stomachache, and a woman who divorces her husband," he said: . What is applied to 
those who came to Mecca from outside and remained muhshar is also applied to them. 

1055-) Regarding "How a person who stays in Mecca after performing his umrah during the Hajj months goes into Ihram and stays 
in Mecca, if his place is broken or if he cannot find the opportunity to make his waqf together with everyone else in time, how would such a 
person act", Imam-i  Malik says: remains. When he recovers, he climbs the Hill and returns to Mecca, after performing circumambulation 
and sa', he leaves the ihram. The next year, he performs the pilgrimage and sacrifices his sacrifice.” 

1056-) Imam-i  Malik says the following about a person who, after entering ihram for hajj from Mecca, gets sick after performing 
circumambulation and sa'yin, and could not reach the foundation together with everyone else: y does. Because he did not intend for Umrah 
in his first circumambulation. The next year, he performs the pilgrimage and sacrifices his sacrifice. If he came from outside Mecca and 
could not perform his pilgrimage after tawaf and sa'y, he would go out of ihram by performing Umrah, but he would do another tawaf and 
sa'y because he had intended for the pilgrimage that he could not perform in the first circumambulation and sa'y. (The last thing he does is 
Umrah circumambulation and sa'yi.) The next year, he performs the pilgrimage he could not reach and sacrifices his gift. 

1057-) From Hadrat Aisha: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Did you not see that when your people built 
the Kaaba, they made it narrower than the foundations of Abraham?" Then I said: O Messenger of Allah! Do you not intend to build it on 
the foundation of Hazrat Ibrahim? said. The Prophet said: If your people had not just come out of unbelief, I would definitely do it. b. Umar 
said: Even if Hadrat Aisha heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) say this, I do not think that I left the two corners on 
the side of Hijr without greeting. Because circumambulation of Baytullah is complete only then. Bukhari, Tafsir, 65/2; Muslim hacc.. 13/399,­See also. Shaybani, 479. 

1058-) From Hadrat Aisha: I pray both in Hijr and in Bayt, it doesn't matter. 1059-) From Ibn 
Shihab: I heard some of our scholars say: "In order for the circumambulation to be completed, people were prevented from returning from 
the Hijr and were made to perform circumambulation after it." 
1060-) Jabir b. From Abdullah: I saw that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) made remel (hard-stepped  walking) 
from Hacerül Asved to Hacerül Esved, which is called shawt for every tour of circumambulation around the three shawt Kaaba. 
From Malik: There was no shortage of scholars who did the same in our Medina. 
1061-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Between Hacerül Esved, Ömer would make three shawts and walk normally in four shawls. 

1062-) Hisham b. From Urwa: While my father was circumambulating Bayt, three Shavts would run in low voices saying: "O Allah, there is no god but you, you are the one who gives life after death." 
1063-) Urwa, the father of Hisham, narrates: I was Abdullah b. I saw Zubayr enter Ihram from my Ten. Then I saw that he was doing 
three shawts of circumambulation around Baytullah. Shaybani, 456. 
1064-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. When Umar entered ihram from Mecca, he would not perform circumambulation and sa'yi until 
he returned from Mina. Again, when he entered ihram from Mecca, he would not do rumel during circumambulation. 1065-) 
From Imam-i  Malik: According to the narration that came to me, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed two rak'ahs after 
circumambulating the Baytullah. would (greet) In a long hadith, Muslim (Hajj, 15/147) narrates from Algebra while describing the 
pilgrimage of our Prophet. 

1066-) Hisham narrates from his father, Urve: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) Abdurrahman b. To Awf: How did you invade 
Hajar al-Aswad,  O Abu Muhammad?» she asked. Abdurrahman replied: I invaded as much as I could, and when I got tired, I left. 
Thereupon, the Prophet said: You have done right. he commanded. This is a mursal hadith, Ibn Abdilber reported this hadith as 
Sufyan Sevri-Hisham-Father-Abdurrahman  b. He narrates it as valid with the awf deed. 

1067-) Hisham b. From Urve: When my father circumambulated the Baytullah, he would invade the whole of Hacerül Esved. 
But if it got worse, he wouldn't invade Yemen's corner. It is a mursal hadith, Ibn Abdilber used this hadith by Sufyan Sevri. 
Hisham-Father-  Abdurrahman b. He narrates it as valid with the awf deed. 
1068-) Hisham narrates from his father, Urve: Omar b. While circumambulating the Baytullah, Khattab used to say about 
Hacerül-Esved:  "You are just a stone. If I had not seen the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) kissing you, I would not have kissed you." 
Then he kissed her. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/50; Muslim, Hajj, 15/248 (reported as plausible). 1069-) From Imam-i  Malik: I heard that some 
scholars welcomed putting their hands in the mouth when they raised their hands to invade the Yemen corner of Hajar al-Aswad  
while circumambulating the Baytullah. 

1070-) Hisham b. Urwa narrates from his father: My father used to pray two rak'ahs after every seven shawts. 
There is no one who does not pray even though he has completed seven shawts. He used to perform these prayers sometimes in 
Maqam-i  ÿbrahim and sometimes in another place. 1071-) To Imam-i  Malik: Can a person find it too little to perform one prayer in 
every seven shawts and perform all of them altogether after the first seven or more?» he was asked. Imam-i  Malik replied: No. 

It is sunnah to offer two rak'ahs after every seven shawts.” 1072-) 
Imam-i  Malik also says the following about a person who falls into his stupor while performing tawaf and realizes after eight or nine 
shawts: As soon as he realizes that he has done more than shawt, he stops and prays two rak'ahs. When he starts a second 
circumambulation, the excesses are no longer counted, he completes another seven shawts, and then prays two rak'ahs. Because it 
is sunnah to pray two rakats after every seven shawts in tawaf. 1073-) From Imam-i  Malik: If, after performing the seven-rak'ah  prayer, 
he doubts whether he has completed the seven shawts, he repeats the tawaf and repeats the two-rak'ah  prayers. Because, prayer 
cannot be performed without completing circumambulation (without seven shawts). 

1074-) If a person whose wudu is broken while circumambulating the Baytullah, while sa'ying between Safa and Marwa, or 
between these two, has performed some or all of the tawaf and has not performed two rak'ahs of tawaf, he performs ablution 
again and performs his prayer. 
1075-) If his wudu is broken while performing sa'y, he does not have to interrupt the sa'y. Sa'i can only be started with wudu'. 
1076-) Abdurrahman b. Abdilkari narrates: After the morning prayer, Umar b. We circumambulated Khattab and Baytullah. 
When Umar finished his circumambulation, he looked at the sun, it was not yet risen. He got on his camel and stopped in Zituva and 
prayed two rakats of circumambulation there. Shaybani, 440 1077-) From Abu Zubayr al-Makki:  Abdullah b. I saw Abbas 
circumambulate the Baytullah and enter his room after the afternoon. I don't know what he was doing there. 

1078-) From Abu Zubayr al-Makki:  After the morning and afternoon prayers, the area around the Baytullah was empty, no one was 
doing circumambulation. 1079-) From Imam-i  Malik: A person who circumambulates the Baytullah performs his prayer together with 
the Imam after a few tawafs (seven shawts) if the morning prayer or afternoon prayer is brought. Then he completes his 
circumambulation. He cannot perform the tawaf prayer before the sun rises or sets (if he has performed the afternoon prayer in 
congregation). If the djB delays the circumambulation prayer and performs it after the evening, there is no harm. 1080-) From Imam-i  
Malik: It is okay for a person to perform a single circumambulation (seven shavt) after the morning and afternoon prayers, but he 
cannot do more. There is no harm in delaying the tawaf prayers until the sun rises or sets, as Hadrat Umar did. The circumambulation 
prayer, which is left after the sunset, can be performed at any time, and there is no harm in performing it after the evening. Shaybani, 

439. 
1081-) Abdullah b. Umar, Umar b. Khattab said: “No one can return from Hajj without circumambulating the Baytullah. The last of the worships performed during the pilgrimage is the farewell circumambulation of the Baytullah.” 
1082-) Regarding this statement of Hadrat Umar, Imam-i  Malik says: Allahu ta'ala knows, but in my opinion, Hadrat Umar deduces from the following verse that the last of the acts of worship performed during the pilgrimage is tawaf to Baitullah: If he shows respect and attention to the duties of pilgrimage and the sacrifices made during the pilgrimage, it is from the taqwa of the hearts. (In other words, pious people with strong faith show respect.) » Hajj, 22/32. "Then the place of sacrifice is up to Bayt-i  Atik (Kaaba)." Here, everything about the pilgrimage, that is, the pilgrimage, is in Bayti Atik (around the Kaaba). Hajj, 22/33. (92) Shaybani, 517 1083-) Yahya b. From Said: Umar b. Khattab turned back a man who had left without making farewell circumambulation to Beytullah from Merruz Zahran and had him perform farewell circumambulation. Marruz Zahran: The name of a valley near Mecca. 
1084-) Hisham narrates from his father, Urwa: Allahu ta'ala decrees that a person who performs the tawaf of visitation accepts the pilgrimage. If there is no obstacle, it is appropriate that his last duty is farewell circumambulation. If an obstacle arises from performing the farewell circumambulation or an unforeseen circumstance arises, Allah decrees that his pilgrimage be accepted. 1085-) Imam-i  
Malik: "What would happen if a man did not know that the last worship he would do was circumambulating the Baytullah, and left Mecca without making farewell circumambulation for him?" He gives the following answer to the question: In my opinion, if the visitor has performed the circumambulation, nothing is necessary. However, if he is near Mecca, he returns and performs farewell 
circumambulation. 1086-) From Umm Salama: I told the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) that I was sick: He said, "Then perform circumambulation on a mount behind the congregation." I did my circumambulation by riding my camel. At that time, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was praying in a corner of the Baytullah and reciting the sura "Vettur wa kitabin Mestur" during the prayer. Bukhari, Salat, 8/78. See also ÿeybanî, 476 1087-) Abdullah b. Sufyan narrates: Abdullah b. I was sitting 
with Umar, once a woman came to him and asked for a fatwa: "I wanted to circumambulate the Baytullah, and when I got to the door, there was bleeding. I'm back, it's cut off. Then I came to the door of the Kaaba again, there was bleeding again. It was cut off as soon as it came back. I tried one more time. I reached the door of the mosque, there was bleeding again, what should I do?» said. Abdullah 
b. 'Umar replied to him: "This is the delusion of the devil, do not worry, do not make a ghusl, put a piece of cloth between your legs, then perform your circumambulation." Shaybani, 471. 1088-) From Imam-i  Malik: Sa'd b. When Ebî Vakkas entered Mecca a little while before the end of the time of foundation, he would go to Arafat without doing circumambulation and sa'y and would perform circumambulation after he returned. From Malik: Biiznillah is permissible. 
1089-) To Imam-i  Malik: "Can someone stop and talk to someone while performing fard tawafi?" he was asked. Imam-i  Malik replied, "I do not find it appropriate". 
1090-) Again, Imam-i  Malik says: "No one can circumambulate the Baytullah without being clean, nor can he say between Safa and Marwa." 
1091-) Jabir b. From Abdullah: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted to leave the mosque and go to Safa, he said, "Let's start with what Allah mentions in the Qur'an," and he started sa' from Safa. The verse is as follows: "Safa and Marwa are places that Allah considers sacred..." (Baqara, 2/158). 
1092-) Jabir b. Abdullah said: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) stood in Safa, he uttered takbir three times and said: "There is no god but Allah. There is nothing like it in any way. The property belongs to him, praise belongs to him. He is omnipotent” and prayed. Later, he would do the same with Merve. 
1093-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. I heard Umar praying in Safa: "O Allah, you said to me, pray for me and I will accept it, you will not go back on your word, my request from you is that you don't take it from me until you kill me as a Muslim, as you have given me Islam." Shaybani, 474 1094-) Urve says: I was young, I asked Hadrat Aisha, the mother of the believers: Allahu ta'ala said: "Surely, Safa and 
Marwa are among the signs of Allah. Whoever performs Hajj or Umrah, there is no harm in circumambulating (sa'y) both of them." Bakara, 2/158. According to him, there is no need for anyone who does not circumambulate Safa and Marwa. said. Thereupon, Hazrat Aisha said: Never! If it had been as you say, the verse would have been like, "There is no harm in not circumambulating both of them." This verse was revealed about the Ansar. In the Age of Ignorance, they were entering ihram for the idol of Manat at the level of Qudayd, and they were hesitant to say Sa'y the hills of Safa and Marwa. When Islam came, they asked the Prophet about this situation. Allahu ta'ala also revealed this verse: "Safa and Marwa are among the signs of Allah. There is no harm in circumambulating (sa'y) between Safa and Marwa who performs Hajj or Umrah." Baccarat, 2/158. Hacc, 25/79; Muslim, Hajj, 15/259,260,261 1095-) Hisham b. From Urwa: Abdullah b. Ömer's daughter ÿevde, Urve b. He was with Zubayr. He walked between Safa and Marwa for hajj or umrah. She was a fat woman. The congregation was only able to return after leaving the night prayer. He could not finish his circumambulation until the first call to prayer was recited. The first adhan was recited before the dawn to awaken the congregation to tahajjud. Hazrat Bilal used to 
recite this adhan from time to time during the age of bliss. He would see some of them circumambulating with mounted horses, and he would vehemently forbid them. They are sick because they are ashamed of Urwa 
they would say. Urwa used to say to them, "They will not get the reward they hoped for, they 
are in disappointment." 1096-) Imam-i  Malik "What would a person who forgets to count between Safa and Marwa while 
performing Umrah remembers after leaving Mecca, what would he do?" to the question: “He turns and does his sa'yi. If he had 
intercourse with his wife in the meantime, he returns again, performs the same sa'yi, completes what he has left apart from Umrah, then 
it is necessary to perform another Umrah and sacrifice an animal." gives the answer. 1097-) When Imam-i  Malik was asked: "The situation 
of someone who stopped and talked to someone he met while he was praying between Safa and Marwa," he replied: "I do not find it 
good". 
1098-) "What would he do if he remembered something he forgot during circumambulation or something he suspected while he was 
sa'yah between Safa and Marwa?" He answers the question as follows: "He cuts his sa'yi there, goes and does what he left in the 
circumambulation with full satisfaction, and starts the sa'yi between Safa and Marwa after performing the two-rak'ah  tawaf prayer." 
1099-) Jabir b. From Abdullah: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) descended from Safa, he would walk with normal steps, and as 
soon as he descended into the valley, he would walk quickly until he left. 
1100-) Regarding a person who sa'yah between Safa and Marwa without knowing before circumambulating the Baytullah, Imam-i  
Malik says: If he does not know this, if he has left Mecca, he returns and performs circumambulation and sa'yi. In the meantime, if he 
has had sexual relations with his wife, he completes what he left behind by performing doner circumambulation and sa'yin. After that, 
he has to perform another Umrah and sacrifice an animal. 

1101-) From Ummul Fadl, daughter of Haris: On the day of Eid-al-Adha,  the Companions disagreed about whether the 
Prophet was fasting in my presence. Some said "fasting". Others said "no". Thereupon, I sent a glass of milk to the Prophet, and 
he drank it while standing next to his camel. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/88; Muslim, Sÿyâm, 13/110 1102-) Kasÿm b. From Muhammad: The 
mother of the believers, Hadrat Aisha, used to fast on the day of Arafa. I saw him on the eve of the eve. While returning from Imam 
Arafat, he was asking for sherbet to break his fast behind the congregation before dark. 

1103-) Süleyman b. Yesardan: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade fasting on Eid-al-Adha.  According to what Abu Omar said, 
there is no objection to Malik in his being a mursal 1104-) From Ibn Shihab: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), 
Abdullah b. He sent Huzafe on the day of the Hajj in Mina. While he was doing circumambulation, he was shouting: These are the days 
of eating, drinking and remembering Allah. 

1105-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade fasting during Ramadan and Eid-al-Adha.  Muslim, Siam, 13/139. 
In addition, this hadith is also included in Sÿyâm, 18/36, with its document and text. 

1106-) Abdullah b. Amr b. From As: My father Amr b. I arrived next to As, he was eating. He called me too. 
I'm fasting," I said. He replied, "These are the days when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade us to fast and orders us to not 
fast." Abu Dawud, Sawm, 14/50 Malik: "These are the days of covenant." said. 

1107-) Muhammed b. Amr b. Hazm's grandson Abdullah b. From Abu Bakr: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) 
hajj (or umrah) Abu Jahl b. He sent a camel belonging to Hisham to the Kaaba as a sacrifice. This hadith is mursal. It is narrated from 
Ibn Abbas. Abu Dawud, Hajj, 11/12. 
1108-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a man sending a sacrificial camel to the Kaaba. Adama: Get 
on it!» he commanded. Man: O Messenger of Allah! It is a sacrifice for the Kaaba.” When the Prophet answered, two or three times: 
I say a thousand to you! he commanded. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/103; Muslim, Hajj, 15/371. See also Shaybani, 41? 

1109-) Abdullah b. From Dinar: Abdullah b. I saw that Umar sent the sacrificial animals in twos during the pilgrimage and one by 
one in the Umrah. Again in Umrah, his Khalid b. I saw Esîd slaughter the animal that was in his house. His home was also there. I saw 
that the pike hit the victim's throat so hard that the tip came out from under the animal's shoulders. Shaybani, 406 b. From Said: Omar 

b. Abdulaziz sent a camel to the Kaaba as a sacrifice for Hajj or Umrah (the narrator doubts). 
1111-) From Abu Cafer al-Kari:  Abdullah b. The drunkard sent two sacrificial camels to the Kaaba. One of them was a long-necked  camel. 1112-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar used to say: When a camel gives birth, its calf is taken and slaughtered together. If something is not found to carry the baby, it is loaded to its mother and slaughtered together. ÿeybanî, 413 1113-) Hisham b. From Urve: My father used to say: If you have to ride the sacrificial camel you brought to the Kaaba, ride it without getting tired, if you need milk, use as much as the baby of the animal will not starve. When you cut it, cut your baby together. ÿeybanî, 411 1114-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. When Umar was sending a sacrifice from Medina to the Kaaba, he would give the animal a sign of sacrifice in Zulhulayfa, then cut it and make a jinn (sign). The process of putting the engagement and making the genie in the same place. 
He would do it by turning it against the qibla. He would hang something around the neck of the animals as a sacrifice, and he would make them bleed by cutting off the left side as a daemon. Afterwards, everyone would go to the place of foundation in Arafat. On the way back from there, the sacrificial animals would still be with them. When he came to Mina on the morning of the first day of the feast, he would slaughter his sacrifice before cutting and shaving his hair. Abdullah would line up his victims, turn them against the qibla, and cut them with his own hand. Then he would eat it himself and serve it to others. ÿeybanî, 399 1115-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. When Umar was making a genie (sign) by cutting the hump of the sacrificial camel he was going to send to the Kaaba, he used to say: "In the name of Allah, Allah is the greatest." 
1116-) He used to say the following about what Hedy (i.e. the sacrificial animal sent to the Kaaba) is: Hedy is an animal that is put on the sacrificial sign, made an engagement by drawing blood, and kept there during the foundation in Arafat. 
1117-) Abdullah b. Omar used to cover various sackcloths on the sacrificial camels he would send to the Kaaba, and then send these sackcloths to the Kaaba and add them to the cover of the Kaaba. 1118-) Imam-i  Malik, Abdullah b. To Dinar: b. What happened to the sackcloth that Omar made for the camels that he would send to the Kaaba and then sent to the Kaaba?» she asked. He replied: "They would be charity". Shaybani, 400 1119-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar used to say that the sacrifices to be sent to the Kaaba should not be small. 1120-) Abdullah b. Umar would not take the sack sack from the sacrificial camels until they went from Mina to Arafat. 1121-) Hisham relates that his father, Urwa, said: "My children! Do not send animals that you do not consider worthy of your honorable friends to the Kaaba for sacrifice. For Allah is the most honorable and worthy of the best of the honorable.” 
1122-) Hisham narrates from his father, Urwa: The person to whom the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) sent the sacrificial animal to go to the Kaaba said to the Prophet: O Messenger of Allah! What should I do if the victim is injured?” she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied: Cut off every injured victim, then mix the badge of sacrifice into your blood, then give it to people so they can eat its meat." Abu Dawud, Hajj, 11/18; Tirmidhi, Hajj, 7/71; Ibn Majah, Hajj, 25/101. See also ÿeybanî, 405 1123-) Said 
b. From Müseyyeb: If the animal of a person who sends a sacrifice to the Kaaba in vain is injured, he immediately slaughters it and distributes its meat to people. Nothing else is needed. However, if he eats the meat himself and orders others to eat it, he has to cut another one again. 
1124-) Abdullah b. There is a narration from Abbas with the same meaning. Shaybani, 404 1125-) From Ibn Shihab: If an animal that someone has shipped as a punishment, vow or dividend sacrifice dies on the way, he has to send it again. 1126-) Abdullah b. From Omar: If the sacrifice of a person who sends a sacrificial animal to the Kaaba is lost and dies, it will be necessary to send another one because of the sacrifice. If he sends it in vain, he will send another one if he wants, if he doesn't, he won't. 1127-) From Imam-i  Malik: I heard the scholars say, "One cannot eat the meat of the sacrificial animal sent to the Kaaba for a punishment and for pilgrimage." 1128-) From Imam-i  Malik: Omar b. Khattab, Ali b. To Abi Talib and Abu Huraira: What does a person who enters ihram for Hajj do if he has sexual relations with his wife?» he was asked. He continues to perform his pilgrimage, but the next year he has to make another pilgrimage and sacrifice an animal," they replied. In addition, Hadrat Ali added: In the next year's pilgrimage, husband and wife do not approach each other until they finish the pilgrimage. 
1129-) Yahya b. Said, Said b. Musayyeb: What do you think about a person who had sexual relations with his wife while he was in Ihram? He heard him say, "Nothing has been passed on to us from the predecessor in this regard." In response to him, a man who had intercourse with his wife while he was in Ihram sent a man to Medina and had him question the situation. Some said that husband and wife would stay apart until the next year's pilgrimage.” When Said b. Museyyeb said: “They continue the pilgrimage, and after completing this pilgrimage they have started, they return to their homeland. If their life ends in the next year's pilgrimage, they must perform the pilgrimage and sacrifice again, enter the ihram from the same place where they entered the ihram last year, and stay apart from each other as long as they perform the pilgrimage. From Malik: In this situation, both husband and wife have to sacrifice an animal separately. 1130-) Imam-i  Malik says for a person who had sexual relations with his wife during the period between returning from Arafat and stoning the Jamrahs: It is obligatory to send a sacrifice to the Kaaba and perform the pilgrimage again the next year. If this relationship has occurred after stoning the Cemre, then he only has to perform Umrah and sacrifice, he will not perform Hajj again the next year. 1131-) From Imam-i  Malik: A person who spoils his hajj or umrah as a result of a relationship has to sacrifice an animal during his hajj or umrah even if the semen is not released. 
1132-) If semen comes as a result of contact between husband and wife, the pilgrimage is invalidated, but if the semen comes not because 
of contact but because the man remembers something, nothing is necessary. 
1133-) If a man kisses his wife and the semen does not come, he sends a sacrifice to the Kaaba as a punishment for kissing. 
1134-) The woman went into ihram for hajj or umrah, and her husband voluntarily had sexual intercourse with her several times. 

If he has been involved in a relationship, he has to go to the pilgrimage again the next year and send a sacrifice to the Kaaba, if he has done this in the ihram of the Umrah, he has to perform the accident and sacrifice an animal. 1135-) Süleyman b. From Yesar: Abu Ayyub al-Ansari  set out for pilgrimage. When he came to Naziye on the way to Mecca, he lost his mount. On the day of Eid, Umar b. He went to Khattab and told what had happened. Umar (radiyallahu anh) said to him: Do the same as the one who performs Umrah, and get out of the ihram. The next year, when the time of pilgrimage comes, perform the pilgrimage again and offer a sacrifice if you find it easy.” 1136-) Süleyman b. From Yesar: Hebbar b. Esved, on the first day of the feast, Ömer b. While Khattab was slaughtering his sacrifice, he appeared before him: Emir of the believers! We got the days mixed up, we thought it was a purgatory today," he said. Umar (radiyallahu anh) said to him: Go to Mecca and do your circumambulation with those around you. Cut your sacrifice, if any. Then shave or shorten your hair and go home. Perform your pilgrimage and sacrifice at the time of pilgrimage next year. If you cannot find a sacrifice, fast for three days during the pilgrimage and for seven days after returning from the pilgrimage.” 1137-) From Imam-i  Malik: If a person who has made the hajj pilgrimage misses it before he can perform it, he has to perform the hajj again the next year. Again, the next year, the sacrifices are also cut in pairs, one for the pilgrim who broke it, and the other for the pilgrimage he missed last year. 1138-) Abdullah b. From Abbas: I was asked about a man who had sexual intercourse with his wife before returning from Mina. I told the Kaaba to send a female camel as a sacrifice. 1139-) From Ikrima, the freedman of Ibn Abbas: Abdullah b. I do not think I will be anyone other than Abbas, someone said: A person who has sexual relations with his family without performing the tawaf of the visit repeats his Umrah and sacrifices. 1140-) Imam-i  Malik, Rebia b. He narrated that he heard Abi Abdurrahman saying the 
same word that Ikrima reported from Ibn Abbas. Malik says on this subject: These are the narrations that I heard and liked the most 
on this subject. 1141-) Imam-i  Malik was asked about the situation of a person who forgot the circumambulation and left Mecca and returned to his hometown. He replied: If he has not had sexual relations with his wife, he should come back and perform the visiting circumambulation. 
If he had sexual intercourse with his wife, he should return and perform the circumambulation, and also perform Umrah and sacrifice. He does not have to buy his sacrifice in Mecca and sacrifice it there, but if he does not have the qurban with him at the place where he goes for Umrah, he should buy it from Mecca and send it to the Kaaba after taking it to the Hill, and then slaughter it. 1142-) Ali b. From Abi Talib: The easiest thing to obtain from the sacrificial animals to be sent to the Kaaba is sheep. ; 1143-) Abdullah b. From Abbas: The most readily available of Hedy is sheep. 1144-) Imam-i  Malik also says: This is what I heard and liked the most on this subject. Because Allahu ta'ala says in His book: people! Do not kill the prey while in ihram. There is expiation in the form of paying a sacrifice that will reach the Kaaba, or giving food to the needy, or fasting to taste the weight of what he has done, which two just people among you will judge that it is equal to the one of you who killed him knowingly, as much as he killed from the domestic animals. Maida, 5/95. It has been ruled that the "sacrifice that will reach the Kaaba" is a sheep. But in the verse, this is stated as a gift. We Medinans are also allies when what is called hedy is the sheep for the most easily obtained sacrificial sacrifice. How can anyone doubt about it? It is possible to judge that it is a camel or a cattle, since it is not, it can be judged as a sheep. If it is less than the value of the sheep, it is also judged as expiation for fasting or feeding the needy. 
1145-) Abdullah b. From Omar: The easiest sacrifice to send to the Kaaba is a camel or cattle. 
1146-) From Rukayye, the freedman of Abdurrahman's daughter Amre: Abdurrahman's daughter Anire set out to go to Mecca. It was the eighth day of Dhul-Hijja  to Mecca. I was with you too. He performed circumambulation and sa'y, then entered the courtyard of the Masjid and asked me: Do you have scissors with you?' said. " No?" said. So find it!” said. I found it and brought it. She trimmed her hair off her head with scissors. On the first day of the feast, he slaughtered a sheep as a sacrifice. 1147-) Charity b. From Yesar al-Makki:  A Yemeni man, Abdullah b. He came to Omer. The man had his hair braided. “O Abu Abdurrahman! I just came for Umrah!” said. Abdullah b. 'Umar said to him: If I were with you or if you had asked me, I would have told you to do the breaking pilgrimage (hajj and umrah with the same ihram). When the Yemeni said: It happened once!» said. Abdullah b. Omar: Then shorten the height (hair) on your head, then send a sacrifice to the Kaaba.» When he said, an Iraqi woman asked: What is the sacrifice to be sent, Abu Abdurrahman?» said. Abdullah said again: “Sacrifice,” the woman said: What is the price of sacrifice? said. on Abdullah b. Omer: If you can't find anything to slaughter, slaughter a sheep. "I think it's better than fasting," he said. 
1148-) Abdullah b. From Omar: When a woman in ihram comes out of ihram, she does not comb her hair until she gets a haircut. If he has a sacrificial animal with him, he does not have his hair shortened until he cuts it off. 1149-) From Imam-i  Malik: I heard some scholars say: Husband and wife do not participate in a sacrifice, each of them sends sacrifices separately. 1150-) To Imam-i  Malik: If a sacrificial animal was sent to someone who went into ihram for Umrah to perform the Hajj, that person would 
Can he cut the qurban that was sent when he comes out of the ihram he entered for Umrah, or does he leave the ihram and delay the slaughter? he was asked. He replied: He leaves the ihram of Umrah and delays the sacrifice in order to sacrifice it on time. 1151-) From Imam-i  Malik: A person who is ordered to send an animal sacrifice to the Kaaba "because of hunting in the Harem or for any other reason" can only be 
sacrificed in Mecca. Because in the verse it is called "a sacrifice that will reach the Kaaba" (Maide, 5/95). However, fasting and charity, which are considered equivalent to sacrifice, can also be performed in other places. Because fasting can be kept in another place, and charity can be performed elsewhere, for example, where the person who is responsible for doing these wishes. 
1152-) Abdullah b. From Abu Esma, the freedman of Cafer: Abdullah b. I was with Cafer. "We set off with him from Medina. We stopped by Huseyin bin Ali, who fell ill in Sukya... Abdullah bin Jafar stayed there until the danger of kidnapping the pilgrim arose. Ali bin Abi Talib and Umays's visit to Medina. He sent a message to his daughter Esma. They came too... Then Hadrat Hussein pointed to his head for shaving. Thereupon, Hadrat Ali ordered his son's hair to be shaved. Later, his expiation was fulfilled in Sukya and he The camel was sacrificed. Ibn Said states the following regarding this matter: Hadrat Husayn went on this journey to Mecca with Osman ibn Affan. 1153-) From Imam-i  Malik: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Arafat Waqfa can be made in any part of the city, but go up the Urane valley. It can be done anywhere in Muzdalifah too, don't stop at 
Batn-i  Muhassir." It was associated with Muslim (Hajj, 15/149) 1154-) From Abdullah b. Zuhayr: As you know, it can be done anywhere in Arafat, except for the valley of Urane. 1155-) Imam-i  Malik states the following in the verse: "There is no refes = sexual intercourse with women in hajj, no fusuk = sacrifice to idols and cidal = strife." Al-Baqara,  2/197. Allahu A'lam, the word refes in this verse is used as a sexual relation, and the word 
fusuk is used as sacrificing to idols in the following verse: It is lawful for you to approach your women (refes) at night when you fast.» Bakara, 2/187 To enter the ihram and sacrifice (fisq) for someone other than Allah..." En'am, 6/145 When it comes to Jidal, the Qurayshis stop in Kuzah in 
Muzdaliyya, and the other Arabs and others in Arafat. , Quraysh: “We are on the right path,” Arabs and others: “We are on the right path!” For this reason, Allah Almighty revealed the following verse: We have made a law for every nation with which they act. Therefore, they should not agree with you on this matter. You call them to your Lord, because you are on the right path.' Maide is the (niza') cidal mentioned in verse 5/48. I heard it from the people of science. 1156-) To Imam-i  Malik: "If a man is not clean, he can make a foundation in Arafat and Muzdalifa, stone the cemre, or Can he say Sa'y between Safa and Marwa?" He was asked. He replied: "Anything that a menstruating woman can do during Hajj, an unclean man can also do. Therefore, nothing is necessary. However, the best thing is for the man to be clean all the time and not intentionally look dirty." 
1157-) Again, Imam-i  Malik said: "Does the person who makes a charitable foundation in Arafat while on a mount, does it on his mount, or does he do it when he gets off?" he was asked. In response he said: on it does it. However, he and his mount should not have an apology. Allah is the most accepting of apologies.” 1158-) Abdullah b. From Omar: A person who does not make a foundation in Arafat before the dawn of Muzdalifah has missed the pilgrimage. If he has made a foundation in Arafat before the Fajr on the night of Muzdalifah, he will have made it to the pilgrimage. 1159-) Hisham narrates from his father, Urwa: Whoever could not catch the foundation in Arafat before the dawn of Muzdalifah, it means that he did not make the pilgrimage. Whoever has made his foundation in Arafat before the Fajr on the night of Muzdalifah has made it to the pilgrimage. 1160-) From Imam-i  Malik: In order for the person who was freed from slavery at the place of foundation in Arafat to perform the hajj, which is obligatory for him, he did not enter the ihram for the pilgrimage at the place where the foundation was made when he was freed, and as soon as he was emancipated, he went into the ihram and entered the ihram there that night before the dawn. it is imperative to do. If he has not yet entered the ihram for hajj even though the dawn has broken out, he is in the position of a person who missed the pilgrimage. If he could not reach the foundation in Arafat before the Fajr on the night of Muzdalifah, the pilgrimage becomes obligatory for him and then he makes it up. 
1161-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar used to send his family and children from Muzdalifah to Mina before the Fajr prayer and had them stone the cemre before the crowd. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/98; Muslim, Hajj, 15/304. See also Shaybani, 515. 1162-) The freed woman of Esma, the daughter of Abu Bakr, says: We came to Mina at twilight with Esma, the daughter of Abu Bakr. I said to Esma: We came in the twilight…” Thereupon, Esma said: We used to do the same when we were with someone better than you.” he replied. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/98; Muslim, Hajj, 15/297 1163-) Imam-i  Malik: Tallia b. Ubeydullah used to send women and children from Muzdalifah to Mina beforehand. 
Malik says: I have heard that some scholars do not consider it good to stone the cemre before dawn on the day of Eid. It is halal to sacrifice 
an animal for those who stone cemre. 
1165-) From Fatma, daughter of Munzir: The one who led Abu Bakr's daughter Esma to pray for himself and his friends. 

I saw him ordering him to lead the morning prayer at dawn. Then he would get on his mount and go to Mina, he would not make a foundation there. 
1166-) Hisham narrates from his father, Urwa: Usama b. Zayd was asked how the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) walked on his farewell pilgrimage when he descended from Arafat. I was with him, and he replied: "He was walking at a normal pace, but was accelerating when he came to a flat area." Malik says: Hisham "The fast walking (which is called 'nas' in the hadith) is a little faster than normal walking." is in the association. 1167-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. In Batn-ÿ  Muhassir, Ömer used to ride up to a stone's throw from the cemre. (121) Bukhari, Hajj, 25/92; Muslim, 15/283, 284. 1168-) From Imam Malik: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said in Mina: "A sacrifice can be made in any part of Mina", then he said: "In Marwa too." Then he said: "A sacrifice can be made in all the streets and roads of Mecca". Abu Dawud, Hajj, 11/64 (from Jabir); Ibn Mace, Menâsik, 25/73 1169-) From Abdurrahman's daughter Amre: I heard Hadrat Aisha say the following: We set out with the Messenger of Allah five days before the end of Dhul-Qadah.  We thought we were just going to do the pilgrimage. When he approached Mecca, the Prophet ordered those who did not have a sacrifice with him to leave the ihram after tawaf and sa'y. 
On the feast day, some beef was brought to us. "What is this?" I asked. They said, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sacrificed for his wives." b. Said says: This hadith was reported by Qasim b. I transferred it to Mohammed. He said to me: "I swear by Allah that Amra has told you exactly, completely." Bukhari, Hajj, 25/115; Muslim, Hajj, 15/125 1170-) From Hafsa, mother of believers: To the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): What is the matter with everyone that they go out of ihram? However, you haven't left the Umrah yet! " said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) replied: I matted my hair, I put my badge on my sacrifice, so I cannot leave the ihram until I slaughter the sacrifice.' Bukhari, Hajj, 25/34; Muslim, Hajj, 15/126 1171-) Ali b. From Abi Talib: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) personally slaughtered some of the sacrifices, and others slaughtered others. Muslim, Hajj, 15/147 (from Jabir). 
1172-) Abdullah b. From Omar: Whoever dedicates a female camel marks his sacrifice, makes a jinn (sign) as a sign, and then slaughters it at the Kaaba or Mina on the day of Eid. There is no other place for slaughter other than these two places. Whoever dedicates to slaughtering a camel or cattle, regardless of gender, let him slaughter it wherever he pleases. 1173-) Hisham b. From Urwa: My father used to slaughter the qurbans standing up. 1174-) From Imam-i  Malik: It is not permissible for a person to shave until he has slaughtered his qurban. It is not right for anyone to sacrifice an animal before dawn on the day of Eid. All of the works such as cutting the sacrifice, wearing normal clothes, cleaning the body and shaving are done on the day of the feast, not before. 1175-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): have mercy on those who shave their hair!' When they prayed, the people there said: O Messenger of Allah!' they added. The Prophet once again said: O Allah, have mercy on those who shave their hair! and the people there said: O Messenger of Allah!' The Prophet added to what they said and prayed: Have mercy on those who cut their hair and shorten it. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/127; Muslim, Hajj, 15/317. 
1176-) Abdurrahman, b. Kasÿm reports: My father would enter Mecca at night while performing umrah, and after performing circumambulation and sa'yi he would not shave until morning. He would not circumambulate the Kaaba again until he shaved, and he would circumambulate when he shaved. Meanwhile, he would sometimes enter the mosque and perform the witr prayer there, but would not circumambulate the Baytullah. 1177-) Imam-i  Malik says: The word "tafes", which means cleaning the body (in the 1174th hadith), means to have the hair shaved, to wear normal clothes by getting out of the ihram, and similar deeds. 1178-) Imam-i  Malik was asked whether a person who forgot to shave in Mina during the pilgrimage could shave in Mecca. Imam-i  Malik replied: Maybe, but in my opinion the best thing to do is to shave in Mina. 1179-) Again, Imam-i  Malik says: Since it is accepted as undisputed among us Medinas, a person with a sacrificial animal can neither shave nor shorten his hair until he cuts it. Until he leaves the ihram in Mina on the day of Eid, nothing that is haram becomes halal for him. Because the Qur'an says: "Do not have your hair shaved until you reach the place of sacrifice." Baccarat is commanded 2/196. 1180-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. If Umar wanted to go on pilgrimage that year when he broke his fast in Ramadan, he would not cut anything from his hair or beard until he made the pilgrimage. Malik says: This action of Ibn Umar is not a measure for other people. 
1181-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. When 'Umar shaves during Hajj or Umrah, he also removes his beard and mustache. 
would shorten it. 
1182-) Rabia b. From Abi Abdurrahman: One of the men was Kasÿm b. He came to Muhammad and said: After performing the circumambulation with my family, we took a mountain road. In the meantime, I wanted to have sexual relations with my family. "Miss, I haven't shortened my hair yet," she said. Thereupon, I plucked the lady's hair with my teeth, and then I had intercourse," he said. Kasÿm laughed and said to the man: Tell your wife to cut her hair short with scissors. 
1183-) Imam-i  Malik also states the following about this issue: It is better to shed blood (sacrifice) when something similar to this is done. In this regard, Abdullah b. Abbas said: "Let anyone who forgets something about the pilgrimage shed blood." 
1184-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Ömer met someone known as Mücebber in his family circle. He had performed the circumambulation of the visit, but he had neither shaved nor shortened his hair. He didn't know how to do this. Thereupon, Abdullah told him to go back and shave or shorten his hair, then circumambulate the Baytullah and return. 1185-) From Imam-i  Malik: Salim 
b. When Abdullah wanted to enter the ihram, he would ask for a pair of scissors and straighten his beard and mustache before getting on his mount and entering the ihram. 
1186-) Abdullah b. From Umar: Umar b. Khattab said: "Those who braid their hair should shave, do not look like those 
whose hair is matted" Shaybani, 461 1187-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: Ömer b. Khattab; He used to say, "Anyone who puts 
their hair in a bun, braids or mats should shave." 

1188-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered Baytullah. Usama b. Zayd, Bilal b. Rebah and Osman b. 
Talha al-Hacebî  was with him, and when he entered, they closed the door and stayed there for a while. Then I asked Bilal what 
the Prophet was doing. "He took one of the pillars to his right, two to his left, and prayed with all three behind him." said. At that 
time, Baytullah had six columns. Bukhari, Salat, 8/96; Muslim, Hajj, 15/388. See also ÿeybanî, 480 1189-) Salim b. From Abdullah: 
Abdulmalik b. Mervan, Hâccac b. By writing a letter to Yusuf, Abdullah b. He told Omar not to oppose. When the sun was low on 
the day of Arafa, Abdullah came to him. I was with you too. When he came to his tent: "Where is that?" yell. Haccac went out in a 
yellow sun visor. "What is it, Abu Abdurrahman?" said. Abdullah: If you want to follow the Sunnah, hurry!» said. Hajjaj: "At this 
hour?" When Abdullah b. Omar: "Yes!" said. Upon this, Hajjaj said: Wait, let me pour some water over my head and come. said. 
Abdullah waited until Hajjaj came out. 

Then he walked between me and my father. I said to Hajjaj: If you want to act according to the sunnah today, keep the sermon short 
and hasten the prayer. Thereupon, Abdullah b. She looked towards him to see if she had heard Omar's words. Seeing this, Abdullah 
said: Salim is right!» said. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/87 1190-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar would pray noon, afternoon, evening, night and 
morning prayers in Mina, and when the sun rose in the morning, he would go to Arafat. 1191-) From Imam-i  Malik: An undisputed 
issue among us Medina is that the imam does not read aloud during the noon prayer on the day of Arafa. He only delivers a sermon 
to the congregation there. On Arafat, only the noon prayer is performed. 

However, since it is a journey, only two rak'ahs of fards are performed, that is, a pavilion is 
made. 1192-) From Imam-i  Malik: If Friday coincides with the day of Arafah, the first day of Eid, or other days of teÿrik, 
Friday is not performed on those days. 
1193-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed the evening and night time together in Muzdalifah. 
Bukhari, Hajj, 25/96; Muslim, Hajj, 15/286. See also ÿeybanî, 489. 1194-) Usama b. From Zayd: While the Messenger of Allah 
(pbuh) was getting down from Arafat, he stopped in a narrow road before coming to Muzdalifah, made his small ablution and 
immediately took his ablution. He also did not give the congregation time to perform ablution. 
Then I said: Shall we pray, O Messenger of Allah? said. Prayer ahead!” he commanded. He got on his mount and came to 
Muzdalifah. He got down and performed ablution there, and gave the congregation time to do ablution. Then the iqama was 
brought and he performed the evening prayer. While everyone was kneeling next to their camel, this time the iqama was brought for 
Isha, and they performed it as well. No other prayers were performed between evening and night. Bukhari, Wudu, 4/6; Muslim, Hajj, 15/276. 
1195-) From Abu Ayyub al-Ansari:  During the farewell pilgrimage, I prayed the evening and night prayers together with the 
Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) in Muzdalifah at the time of nightfall. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/96; Muslim, Hajj, 15/285. 
See also Shaybani, 490. (134) Shaybani, 488. 
1196-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar used to perform evening and night prayers together (by making cem-i  tehir) in 
Muzdalifah. 1197-) From Imam-i  Malik: When Meccan people make pilgrimage, they pray two rak'ahs of their time in Mina 
until they return to Mecca. 
1198-) Hisham, from his father, Urwa: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the four-rakat  prayers as two rak'ahs in Mina. 
Abu Bakr and Umar b. Khattab did the same. Osman b. Affan, on the other hand, prayed two rak'ah prayers in Mina in the first 
half of his caliphate, but he performed them fully in the second half of his caliphate. This is mursal. It has also been narrated from 
Ibn Omar: Bukhari, Taksîru's-Salat,  18/2; Muslim, Salatu'l-Musafirin,  6/17. 

1199-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: Ömer b. When Khattab came to Mecca, he led the congregation's prayer in two rak'ahs, then 
turned to them and said: "Meccan people! You complete your prayer; because we are the expedition," he said. Then he performed 
it in Mina as two rak'ahs, but we did not hear whether he said anything to the congregation about it. 
1200-) Zayd b. Maple narrates from his father: Umar b. Khattab prays in Mecca as two rak'ahs for the congregation. 

he made it. Turning against the congregation: Meccans! You complete your prayer. For we are the expedition.” Then Umar led two 
rak'ahs in Mina. We did not hear whether he said anything to the congregation there. 1201-) Imam-i  Malik was asked: How many 

rakats will prayers be performed in Arafat, what will happen if the pilgrim is from Mecca, whether the noon and afternoon prayers will 
be performed in two or four rak'ahs, and what will be the situation of the Meccans. He replied: They pray as two rak'ahs during their stay in 
Mina and Arafat until they return to Mecca. Even if the pilgrim is from Mecca, he acts in the same way and performs prayers on the days of 
Arafa and Eid. If someone residing in Mina is here due to hajj, he performs the prayers in Mina. If there is a person residing in Arafat, he 
also performs the prayers in Arafat (that is, in his hometown). 1202-) From Imam-i  Malik: A person who comes to Mecca at the beginning of 
Dhul-Hijjah  and enters the ihram for hajj performs his prayers in full until he goes from Mecca to Mina. When he goes to Mina, he prays two 
rak'ahs of four rak'ahs. Because he stayed in one place for more than four nights. 

1203-) Yahya b. From Said: Omar b. On the morning of the first day of the feast, Khattab went out and said takbir, and the congregation 
followed him. Then, in the mid-morning  time, he came out again, uttered takbir, and the Muslims repeated it after him. For the third time, 
when the sun came back from low, he came out and uttered the takbir, and the people around him repeated it with him. The sound of takbir 
reached as far as the Kaaba. Thus, it was known that Ömer was out and stoned the cemre. 1204-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to us 
Medinans, the Eid al-Adha  takbirs are followed after the prayers. The first of these takbirs begins with the imam's takbir after the noon prayer 

on the first day of the eid, and the congregation recites it together. The last of these takbirs ends with the congregation's repetition of the 
imam's takbir after the morning prayer on the last day of the eid, and then the takbir is uttered. According to the Hanafi sect, takbirs of tashrik 
begin at the morning prayer on the day of Eid-al-Adha,  and end at the afternoon prayer on the fourth day of Eid al-Adha,  and cover a total of 
twenty-three  daily prayers. These takbirs are uttered after every fard prayer. 

1205-) Eid takbirs are obligatory for all men, women, congregations or individuals, in Mina or in other countries. 
In the pilgrimage, the people say their takbirs by obeying the pilgrim emir and in Mina by following each other. Because, just as those 
who are not on the pilgrimage to say takbir by following each other, when the people from Mina return and leave the ihram, they will say the 
takbir by obeying each other. Those who are not on the pilgrimage are not responsible for the takbirs brought during the hajj, they only say 
the eid takbirs. Malik says: The word "Eyyamen ma'dudat", Bakara, 2/18 in the Qur'an, means the days of tashrik (eid). 

1206-) Abdullah b. From Omar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made his camel kneel down in Batha in Zulhulayfa and prayed there. 
Abdullah b. He says that Ömer did the same. Muslim, Hajj, 15/43. (139) Shaybani, 516. 1207-) From Imam-i  Malik: It is not appropriate 
for anyone to pass through Muarres without praying while returning from Hajj. If it is not time for prayer when you stop by, let him stay 

there until it is time to pray, and then pray as much as he can. Because, according to the narrations that reached me, the Prophet 
stayed there to rest. Abdullah b. Umar also made his camel kneel there. 

1208-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar would perform the noon, afternoon, evening and night prayers in Muhassab, then enter Mecca at night 
and circumambulate the Baytullah. ÿeybanî, 519 1209-) From Nafi: According to what they claim, Ömer b. Khattab would send men. They 
used to bring the congregation behind Aqaba (Mecca). ÿeybanî,500 1210-) Abdullah b. From Umar: Umar b. Khattab said: No pilgrims should 
stay overnight in Mina beyond Aqaba. 

1211-) Hisham relates from his father, Urve: Mina says about sleeping in Mecca at night: No one from the pilgrims should sleep in Mina at 
Mina nights (after the Aqaba cemre) 1212-) From Imam-i  Malik: Ömer b. Khattab stood next to the first two cemre so long that anyone 

standing would get tired. 

1213-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Ömer would wait for a long time by saying takbir and simile, estimating and praying next to the first two 
cemre, and he would never wait next to the cemre. 

1214-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. When Omar stoned the cemre, he would utter takbir with every stone throw. 

1215-) From Imam-i  Malik: I heard some scholars say: "The stones thrown into the cemre are just as large as a dent stone." From Malik: 
I think it would be better if it was a little bigger than that. 

1216-) Abdullah b. From Omar: Whoever the sun goes down while in Mina on Eid days should not return without breaking the next day's 

stones. 

1217-) Abdurrahman b. Kasÿm reports from his father: Muslims used to come and go on foot when they came to stone the cemre. For the 
first time, Muaviye b. He became Abi Sufyan. 1218-) Imam-i  Malik, Abdurrahman b. To Kasÿm: Where would your father Kasÿm stone the 

cemre-i  aqaba?» she asked. 
And he said: From where it comes easy!' gave the answer. 

1219-) From Imam-i  Malik: "Can a stone be thrown instead of a child and a sick person?" he was asked. He said: “Yes, the patient utters takbir and sheds blood when a stone is thrown instead. If he recovers before the feast, he will throw the stones thrown in his place again. In this case, he also has to sacrifice a sacrifice.” 1220-) From Imam-i  Malik: "According to me, a person who stoned the cemrahs without wudu or 
performs sa'y does not need to perform these duties again. However, he must not have deliberately intended to be without wudu." 
1221-) Abdullah b. From Ömer: Cemre (on Eid-al-Adha)  is not stoned until the sun returns from low for three days. ÿeybanî, 499 1222-) Ebülbeddah, his father Asÿm b. It is narrated from Adi: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) allowed the camel herders to spend the night 
out of Mina. After they stoned the cemre on the first day of Eid, they threw the stones that they were going to throw on the second day and the third day, and then they threw the stones for the day of return. Abu Davud, Menâsik (Hajj), 11/77; Tirmidhi, Hajj, 7/108; Nesai, Hajj, 24/225; Ibn Mace, Menâsik (Hajj), 25/67. See also ÿeybanî, 495 1223-) Yahya b. Said, Ata b. He heard Abi Rebah mentioning that "in the time of the Companions..." the shepherds were allowed to stone the cemre at night. 
1224-) Regarding the license given to the shepherds by the Prophet to stone the cemre, Imam-i  Malik says: He knows, but according to our understanding, the shepherds stoned the cemre on the first day of Eid. And for the third day, they threw away their stones and returned. Because no one makes his accident unless something is obligatory for him. Something is obligatory and is made up after its time has passed. The shepherds, who are licensed to grind the cemre in this way, can go if they need to leave after their work is done. If they want to stay until the end, they throw their stones with other Muslims and return with them on the last day. 
1225-) Abu Bakr narrates from his father Nafi: Abu Ubayd's daughter Safiye's sister's daughter gave birth while she was in Muzdalifah. She and Safiye left the congregation and came to Mina after sunset on the day of the feast. Abdullah b. Umar ordered them to stone the cemre when they came there, and therefore did not tell them to do anything as punishment. 1226-) Imam-i  Malik was asked: "The situation of those who forget to stone the cemre in Mina some days until the evening". He replied: "Any time, day or night, he remembers, let him go 
and throw away his stones at once. Just like when he remembers a prayer that he forgot to pray, day and night. If this person remembers this after returning to Mecca or after leaving Mecca, he must send a sacrifice to the Kaaba. 
1227-) Abdullah b. Umar narrates: Umar b. Khattab gave a sermon to the congregation in Arafat and told them how to perform the pilgrimage. Among the things he told, he also said: After you arrive in Mina and stone the Cemre, what was forbidden to you before is halal, except for sexual intercourse with women and applying perfume. That is why, unless he circumambulates the Baytullah, no one should have intercourse with his wife or put on perfume. 
1228-) Abdullah b. From Umar: Umar b. Khattab said: "Everything is halal except sexual intercourse with his wife and applying perfume to a person who shaves his cemre, shaves his head, or cuts his hair and, if he is with him, slaughters his sacrifice." However, unless he circumambulates the Baytullah, he cannot approach his wife and use perfume. 1229-) From Hazrat Aisha, mother of the believers: We set out with the Prophet for the farewell pilgrimage. Later, we turned our hajj into umrah. Bihalare Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever has a sacrificial animal with him, let him enter Ihram together for hajj and umrah. Then, for both of them, the state of ihram continues until he leaves the ihram.” I came to Mecca on my period. Therefore, I neither circumambulated the Baytullah, nor did I sa'y between Safa and Marwa. I complained to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about the situation. He said to me: "Untie your hair, comb it, leave Umrah and enter the Ihram for Hajj." I did as he said. When we performed our pilgrimage, the Prophet sent me to Abdurrahman b. He sent it to Ebî Bekr es-Sÿddÿk  and Ten'ÿm. I went for Umrah there. 
Abdurrahman said to me: "Here is where you will perform Umrah!" said. Those who entered ihram for the sake of circumambulating the Bayt. After sa'y between Safa and Marwa, they left the ihram. Later, when they returned from Mina, they also made a circumambulation for the pilgrimage. Those who entered the ihram only for hajj or those who entered ihram for hajj and umrah together performed a single circumambulation. 
1230-) Urve b. There is another narration similar to this that came with the Zubayr tariq. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/31; Muslim, Hajj, 15/111. 
1231-) From Hadrat Aisha: I was menstruating when I came to Mecca. I did neither circumambulation nor sa'y for him. I complained to the Prophet about the situation. He said to me: "Tawaf and sa'yin Bukhari, Hajj, 25/81 until it is cleaned. Do all that the pilgrims do, except the pilgrims.” he commanded. 1232-) Imam-i  Malik said: A menstruating woman who enters the ihram for Umrah and then waits for the Hajj time 
in Mecca cannot circumambulate the Bayt. If he is afraid that he will miss the pilgrim, he enters the ihram for the pilgrimage, but sacrifices a sacrifice. Whoever does this will be like the one who breaks the pilgrim, and performs only one circumambulation for him. If a woman has made tawaf and prayed, she does the sa'yin, makes her foundation in Arafat and Muzdalifah, and also stones the cemre, but does not stop menstruating. 
He cannot perform the circumambulation until he is cleansed. 
1233-) From Hazrat Aisha: Huyey's daughter Safiye became a menstruation. I reported the situation to the Prophet: Will he keep us waiting here?» she asked. He said to himself: "He performed the visiting circumambulation." it said. Then: "Well then, we won't wait." he commanded. Bukhari, Hajj, 25/145 1234-) From Hadrat Aisha: To the Prophet: O Messenger of Allah! Huyey's daughter Safiye has menstruation!» said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Or will he make us wait here? Didn't he circumambulate the Bayt with you?" said. He did!» they said. Thereupon, the Prophet said: Then let's go!' he commanded. Bukhari, Hayd, 6/27; Muslim, Hajj, 15/385. See also Shaybani, 468. 1235-) Abdurrahman's daughter Amre narrates:-When Hadrat Aisha made pilgrimage, she had women with her, fearing that they would have their menstruation, and had them go and visit tawafi before the Eid day. Because if they menstruate after circumambulation, Hadrat Aisha will not wait for them, and they can return to their homeland with menstruation. Shaybani, 467 1236-) The mother of the believers, Hadrat Aisha, was told: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) talked about Huyey's daughter, Safiye, she had menstruation. Thereupon, the Prophet said: "Or will he keep us waiting here?" said. Those there: O Messenger of Allah! He made his circumambulation”, they said. Then the Prophet said: Then we can go. Abu Dawud, Menâsik (Hajj), 11/89 1237-) Hadrat Aisha narrates: We were talking about a situation like this: If it does not help them, why do men send women beforehand? If it were as they say, more than six thousand women who had circumambulated in Mina would have had to be menstruating. 
1238-) Abu Salama b. From Abdurrahman: Umm Salama, Milhan's daughter, had her menstruation or gave birth on the way after performing the visiting circumambulation on Baycam Day. Thereupon, he asked our prophet for a fatwa. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) allowed him and left. Ibn Abdilber says: "I know from Umm Sulaym only this way." Zurkanî adds: "Even if it is accepted that Abu Salama did not hear from Ummu Sulaym, there are hadiths supporting this." 1239-) From Imam-i  Malik: A woman who has a menstrual period in Mina stays there until she circumambulates the Baytullah. For him, this is essential. If he has done the 
visiting circumambulation and has menstruation after that, he should return to his hometown. Because there is a narration stating that the Prophet allowed menstruating women in this regard. 1240-) If a woman has menstruation in Mina before her visiting circumambulation, and her condition continues longer than her menstrual period makes a woman wait, she will stay there during this time. ÿeybanî, 469 1241-) From Ebüz-Zübeyr:  Ömer b. Khattab (while on Hajj) decided that whoever killed a hyena should ransom a goat, who killed a gazelle a goat, who killed a rabbit a goat, and whoever killed a vole should ransom a four-month-old  
kid. ÿeybanî, 502 1242-) Muhammed b. Sirin narrates: A man, Umar b. He came to Khattab: My friend and I rode our horses. We shot a gazelle in a breach at the entrance of a narrow road. We were both in ihram. What do you order us to do then?” said. Umar (radiyallahu anh) said to a man next to him: Come, let's decide together!» said. They decided that the man would give a goat as 
ransom. While the man was turning away, he said: “This is also for sure of the believers! He can't even pass judgment on a gazelle, so he's calling someone else!” it was said. Umar (radiyallahu anh) heard his words, called him and said: Do you recite Surah Maide? she asked. Man: "No!" when you say: . Do you know the man who decided with me?" said. The man again: No!» gave the answer. 
Upon this, Hadrat Umar said: If you had read the chapter of Maide, I would have beaten you thoroughly. This is Abdurrahman b. He finished his words by saying that he is Avf. 
1243-) From Urwa, the father of Hisham: The person who kills the wild cattle gives a competent cattle, and the person who kills the gazelle gives a sheep as ransom. 1244-) Said b. From Musayyeb: Whoever kills a Meccan pigeon has to ransom one sheep. 1245-) From Imam-i Malik: If there are chicks of a Meccan pigeon on one side of the house of a man who has entered ihram for hajj or umrah in Mecca, if their door is closed and they die inside, the owner of the house must give a sheep ransom for each chick that dies. 1246-) From Imam-i  Malik: I have always heard that if someone with ihram kills an ostrich, he should give a female camel as ransom. 1247-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to me, a person who destroys a free fetus should free a male slave or concubine worth one tenth of his mother's diet, that is, fifty dinars; must give. 
1248-) All bird species on land, animals such as eagles, falcons and vultures are hunting animals. Like other game animals, people of Ihram must hunt them and pay a ransom. 1249-) There is no difference between killing the biggest and the smallest of everything that will be ransomed if killed. It is just as there is no difference between the killing of a free small child and a free adult. 
1250-) Zayd b. From Eslem: A man, Umar b. He came to Khattab and said: Amir of the believers! While I was in Ihram, I hit the locusts with my whip and killed them!” said. Umar (radiyallahu anh): Then give a handful of food (as 
ransom)!” gave the answer. 
1251-) Yahya b. From Said: One of the men was Umar b. He came to Khattab and said that he had killed the locusts while he was in Ihram. Thereupon, Umar (radiyallahu anh) said to Ka'b: Come, let's decide.' said. Ka'b: "Give me a dirham." When Hazrat Umar said to him, "You can find dirhams, but dates are more beneficial to the poor than grasshoppers." said. 
1252-) Kab b. From Ucre: I was with the Prophet in Ihram. The vermin in my head began to torment me. Thereupon, the Prophet ordered me to shave: "Either fast for three days, or feed six poor people, two muds per man, or sacrifice a sheep. Whichever of these you do, you will have paid the ransom.” 
1253-) Ka'b b. Ucre narrates: The Prophet said to me: I think the vermin are tormenting you!» said. I said: Yes, O Messenger of Allah!' I replied. Our Prophet said to me: Shave. As a ransom, either fast for three days, feed the poor, or sacrifice a sheep.” Bukhari, Muhsar, 27/5. 1254-) Ka'b b. Ucre narrates: While I was blowing the bottom of a pot belonging to my friends, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to me. My hair and beard were infested with vermin. The Prophet lifted it from my forehead and said: Cut this hair. As a ransom, either fast for three days or feed six poor people.” The Prophet knew that there was no sacrifice to be slaughtered with me. Bukhari, Maghazi, 64/35; Muslim, Hajj, 15/80 (reported as apocalyptic). 1255-) Regarding the ransoms of irritating situations, Imam-i  Malik says: The expiation is paid after it becomes obligatory. The person who has made atonement can pay it in Mecca or elsewhere as a sacrifice, as fasting, or as alms if he wishes. 1256-) From Imam-i  Malik: It is not correct for a person in ihram to pull out his hair, shave it, or shorten it until he leaves the ihram. If this situation bothers him, he does what is necessary and gives his ransom as Allah has ordered. It is also not right for a person in ihram to cut his nails, kill insects, and throw the insects on his head and clothes to the ground. If the person in the ihram throws an insect on the ground or on his clothes, he has to give a handful of food as ransom. 1257-) From Imam-i  Malik: situations such as when a person in ihram forgetfully or unknowingly plucks hair from his nose and armpits, removes hair from his body with Turkish bath grass, shaves around a wound on his head under necessity, or cuts his hair in a part of his head to get blood drawn. In all of them, he has to pay a ransom for each case separately. However, he does not need to cut the hair on that part of his head to get blood drawn from his head. 
1258-) Before grinding the cemre, if anyone shaves unknowingly, he has to pay a ransom. 1259-) Abdullah b. From Abbas: Whoever forgets (or abandons) one of the pilgrimage rituals, let him shed blood. Eyyub says: I do not remember Abdullah saying "whether he forgets or leaves". 1260-) From Imam-i  Malik: If it is necessary to give gifts because of abandoning the rituals of Hajj, this is only possible in Mecca. If any other punishment is required, the person can do it wherever he wishes. no one should do this. However, this was allowed on the condition that he pays the ransom in case of necessity. 1262-) Imam-i  Malik was asked whether he is free to choose one of the obligations such as fasting, giving alms or sacrificing when necessary. It was also asked: "What should be the sacrifice, how many periods of food is necessary, how many days the fast will be kept, whether one of these is obligatory for him, can he perform it immediately or later". He replied: He can do whatever he wants from the expiations specified in Allah's book, and he is free to choose what he wants in this regard. As for what to sacrifice, it's the sheep. Fasting is three days, and food is feeding six poor people in two muds, provided that the mud (one mud is half a kilo) in the time of the Prophet is a unit. 1263-) From Imam-i  Malik: I also heard some scholars say: If a person with ihram throws something, if he has no intention of using it, but shoots a game animal, he has to pay its ransom. A person who does not have an ihram must also kill an animal in the Harem, even though he does not want it, and pay its ransom. Because in this case error and intent are the same, there is no difference. 
1264-) "What would happen if a group of people killed a game animal while they were in Ihram or while they were in the Harem without Ihram?" In response to the question, Imam-i  Malik says: In my opinion, they should all be punished separately. If it is necessary to sacrifice an animal, everyone in the group must sacrifice an animal separately. If it is decreed to fast, it is obligatory for all of them to fast separately. Likewise, if a group of people kill a man by mistake, each of them must free a slave separately, or they must fast for two months without interruption. 
1265-) From Imam-i  Malik: After throwing a stone and shaving his head, if a person throws or hunts a game before he can perform the circumambulation, he must punish that game. Because in the Quran "when you come out of ihram, hunt" Maide, 5/2. is commanded. The deprivation of a person who has not done circumambulation, such as not being able to get close to his wife and not being able to smell perfume, continues. 1266-) From Imam-i  Malik: A person who cuts a tree while in ihram does not need anything. It has not reached us that no one has made a judgment against the tree-cutters  in this regard. But someone who does so does not do well at all. 1267-) From Imam-i  Malik: A person who could not fast for three days, or because he was ill, should send a sacrifice to the Kaaba if he finds it, if he does not find it, he should fast for three days in his house, and then keep it for seven days. 
1268-) Abdullah b. Amr b. From As: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stopped in Mina, the Muslims were asking him various questions. Meanwhile, a man came and said: O Messenger of Allah! “I shaved because I didn't know before I sacrificed,” he said. The Prophet: Cut your sacrifice, it doesn't matter." he commanded. Later, another person came and said: O Messenger of Allah! He said, 'I didn't know before I stoned the cemre, so I made a sacrifice. To this, our prophet replied: It is not important to throw away the stone!» he commanded. The Prophet (pbuh) was asked what he had come and gone here, and his answer to all of them was: "Do it, it doesn't matter". Bukhari, Hajj, 25/131; Muslim, Hajj, 15/327. See also ÿeybanî, 501 1269-) Abdullah b. From Umar: When the Prophet was returning from an expedition, hajj or umrah, he would say takbir three times while passing from every high place. Then he said: “There is no god but Allah alone. He has no partners at all. The property belongs to him, and the praise is due to him. He is omnipotent. Those who return, repent, worship and prostrate, and praise our Lord, are true to the promise of Allah. He would help his servant, he would defeat the enemies of Allah alone, he would pray. Bukhari, Umrah, 26/12; Muslim, Hajj, 15/428. See also Shaybani, 515. 1270-) Ibn Abbas narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was passing by a woman who was standing in the tent of her camel. To the woman: This is the Messenger of Allah!» it said. Thereupon, the woman grabbed the child next to her by the sides and lifted her up: “Can this pilgrimage pass, O Messenger of Allah?” she asked. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Yes, it will be rewarding for you too. Muslim, Hajj, 15/409 1271-) Talha b. Ubeydullah b. From Keriz: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Satan has never been seen smaller, more despicable, more humble and more angry than he was seen on the day of Arafa. The reason for this is that he sees the revelation of mercy and Allah's forgiveness of major sins. There is also a day when it is seen as smaller, more humiliated and more angry than the day of Arafa, which is the day of the Battle of Badr.” Upon this word, he asked the Prophet: What did the devil see in Badr, O Messenger of Allah? When he was asked, he replied: He saw Gabriel making rows of angels for battle.' This is mursal. The judge narrated from Abu'd-Darda  in Mustedrek 1272-) Talha b. Ubeydullah b. From Keriz: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The most virtuous prayers are on the day of Arafa. The most virtuous of what I and the prophets before me said is: There is no god but Allah alone, He has no partner in any way. Ibn Abdilber says: "There is no conflict with Malik in its being mursal. 
1273-) Enes b. From Malik: When the Prophet entered Mecca in the year Mecca was conquered, he was wearing a helmet. 
When he took off the helmet, a man came to him and said: O Messenger of Allah! Ibn Ha'tal took shelter between the 
curtains of the Kaaba!» said. Buhari, Cezau's-Sayd,  28/18; Muslim, Hajj, 15/450. Thereupon, our Prophet said: Kill him!» 
he commanded. In fact, it was decided that those who took refuge in the Kaaba would not be touched. However, Ibn Khatal 
was one of those whose blood was wasted for the great evil he had done to Islam and Muslims. Malik says: Ogun Rasûlullah 
—Allah  knows—was  not ihram. 
1274-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar set out from Mecca. When he came to Qudayd, he received news from Medina. 
Thereupon, he immediately returned to Mecca without ihram. 1275-) A similar narration came from Ibn Shihab. 

1276-) Muhammed b. Imran al-Ansari  narrates from his father: While I was standing under Sarha on the way to Mecca, 
Abdullah b. Omar came. Sherha: it is the proper name of a tree to which many paths lead. Why are you under this tree?' 
said. « To sit in its shade.» said. "Any other reason?" said. No, just for the shadow,” I said. Thereupon, Abdullah b. 
Pointing to the east with his hand, Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When you reach between two 
small mountains in Mina, there is a tree in a valley called Sürer. Seventy thousand Prophets lived under that tree.” 
Nesai.Hacc, 24/189. 1277-) From Ibn Abi Muleyke: Omar b. Khattab met a woman with leprosy who was circumambulating 
the Baytullah. To her: O concubine of Allah! It would be better if you stayed at home and did not harm others!” said. The 
woman immediately sat down. Then a man came to the woman and said: The man who prevented you from circumambulating 
died, come on. 

Go on!" said. The woman replied to the man: I will not obey his living and rebel against his dead. 1278-) Abdullah b. From Abbas: The distance between Rukun and Kaaba door is Mültezem. 1279-) Muhammed b. Yahya b. Habban reports: A man ran into Abu Dharr in Rebeza. Abu Dharr said to the man: To where?” she asked. Man: I want to go on pilgrimage.» he replied. Upon this, Abu Dharr asked: Is there any other reason?' said. Man: No! said Abu Dharr; So do it,” he said. The man explains the rest of the event as follows: After I left there, I came to Mecca. After staying there for a while, one day I pushed a man in a crowd. Suddenly what do I see? This is the old man I met in Rebeze!.. That is, Abu Dharr! When he saw me, he recognized me and said: I am the one speaking to you!' said. 1280-) Imam-i  Malik, to Ibn Shihab; I asked a question about leaving the ihram due to an obstacle for entering and exiting the ihram for Hajj.” Ibn Shihab meant that such a thing would not happen: Has anyone done this?' he replied. He didn't like this. 1281-) Imam-i  Malik, "Does a person collect herbs from the Harem for his mount?" He answered “No” to the question. 1282-) From Imam-i  Malik: A single woman who has never made a pilgrimage can go on a pilgrimage with her if she has a close relative with her. If he has a close relative and he is not in a position to go on pilgrimage with a single woman, then the woman will not abandon the pilgrimage that Allah has made obligatory for her. Let him go on pilgrimage by joining a group of women. In the Hanafi Madhhab, a woman must have a husband or a mahram with her in order to go on pilgrimage. 
If one of these is not present, Hajj is not obligatory on a woman. This is the case if there is an expedition, that is, a distance of three days and three nights, between the place where the woman is and Mecca. If it is less than this distance, it is permissible for a woman to perform hajj without being a mahram. (Damad, Mecmau'l-Enhur  c. I, p. 262). 1283-) From Hazrat Aisha, the mother of the believers: A person who cannot find a gift for Hajj after performing Umrah fasts between the day he enters Ihram for Hajj and the day of Arafa. If it does not hold in these days, it does in the days of Mina. 1284-) Salim b. From Abdullah: Abdullah b. Umar used to say what Aisha (radiyallahu anh) said about this issue. 1285-) Abu Huraira narrates that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person who goes out for jihad in the way of Allah is like a person who fasts and performs voluntary prayers without getting tired and without getting tired, until he returns." Bukhari, al-Cihad  ve's-Siyer,  560/1; Muslim, Imaret, 336U0. 1286-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Allahu ta'ala has taken it upon himself to admit anyone who has been removed from his house (if he becomes a martyr) to Paradise, or to return him to his home with rewards and spoils, only for the sake of jihad in his own way and for the confirmation of his orders. .» Bukhari, al-Cihad  ve's Siyer, 560/2; Muslim, Imaret, 33/104. 1287-) Abu Huraira narrates that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A horse is a reward for some people, a bulwark for others, and a burden for others. We can describe the person whom he is instrumental in rewarding as follows: The man prepared his horse in the way of Allah. When he ties it to an empty field or a pasture, everything becomes good for the man as long as the horse's rope drags on this field or pasture. If the horse breaks its rope and runs for one or two laps, it will be rewarded for the man because of the places he stepped on and fertilized. If, while crossing a river, the horse drinks water from there, even though the man does not intend to water his horse, it will be written in the name of the man. There is a man who prepares his horse not to be a burden to others and not to be in need of them. He does not forget Allah's right, whether he is eating it or riding it. For such a person, the horse is a bulwark. There is also a man who has prepared his horse for boasting, showing off, and enmity against Muslims. For such a person, his horse is a burden, a burden.” (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked a question about donkeys. He answered as follows: "Nothing was revealed to me on this subject except the following verse, which clearly states all kinds of sin and good deeds: "Whoever does an iota of goodness will be rewarded; » (Zilzâl, 99/2) Bukhari, al-Jihad  ve's-Siyer,  56/48; Muslim, Zakat, 12/24 1288-) Ata b. Yesar relates that the Prophet said: "Shall I tell you the best of people in rank? He is the one who takes the bridle of his horse and makes jihad in the way of Allah. After that, shall I inform you of the best of people in rank? He is the one who takes a few sheep and is put aside, prays, fasts, and worships Allah without associating anything with him.” It has also been narrated as Mawsul: Tirmidhi, Fedâilu'l-Jihad,  20/18 (hasan); Nasai, Zakat, 23/74. 
1289-) Ubade b. Velid, his grandfather Ubade b. It is narrated from Samit: We told the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) that we would accept what we heard from him on the night of Aqaba, that we would do what he said, that we would help him in abundance and shortage, in situations that were liked or disliked, that we would not make any effort to take a job from his people, wherever we were. We pledged allegiance that we would speak the truth, be on the right path, and that we would not be afraid of anyone's condemnation in helping Allah's religion. Bukhari, Ahkam, 93/43; Muslim, imaret, 33/41 1290-) Zayd b. From Eslem: Ebû Ubeyde b. El-Cerrah,  Omar b. He wrote a letter to Khattab, informing him that the Greeks were massing up and that they were afraid of them. Umar b. In reply to him, Khattab 
wrote: When it comes to purpose, whenever a servant of my soul gets into trouble, Allah will show him a way of salvation. One difficulty can never beat two eases. Because Allahu ta'ala says in His Book: "O you who believe! Be patient, be patient with each other 
advise, continue the jihad. Beware of Allah's (punishment) so that you will be successful." Âl-i  îmran, 200. 1291-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade expeditions in enemy territory with the Qur'an. Imam-i  Malik says on this subject: "This prohibition is due to the fear that the enemy might take possession of the Qur'an (and cause harm to the Qur'an)." Bukhari, al-Jihad  ve's-Siyer,  56/129; Muslim, Imaret, 33/93 1292-) Ka'b b. From Malik's son (I think from Abdurrahman): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade those who killed Ibn Abi Hukayk's son to kill their women and children. One of them says: The wife of Abu Hukayk's son appeared before us shouting. I immediately lifted my sword, and at that moment, the prohibition of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to my mind. I immediately caught myself. Had it not been for the prohibition of the Prophet to kill women, we would have killed that woman and escaped. Ibn Abdilber says: "Muwatta narrators agreed that the hadith is mursal." The incident clearly shows that the Companions were extremely devoted to the Sunnah of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) 1293-) From Ibn Omar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw female corpses in one of the battles. 
He didn't like it. Thereupon, he forbade the killing of women and children. Bukhari, al-Jihad  ve's-siyer,  56/148; Muslim, al-Jihad  wa's-Siyer,  32/24, 25. See also. Shaybani, 868. 1294-) Yahya b. From Said: Abu Bakr es-Siddik  sent an army to Damascus. He was Yazid b. Ebi He went out to see Sufyan on foot. Yazid was in command of a quarter of this army. It is said that Yazid said to Hazrat Abu Bakr, either you get on too or I get off!” said. Abu Bakr: Don't get off, I won't get on either. Because I get rewards for every step I take in the way of Allah.” He then told him: You will see ascetics claiming to be devoted to Allah, leave them alone with their worship. You will see another group who have shaved the middle of their heads, so put them to the sword. I advise you ten things: Don't kill women, children, and old people. Do not cut fruit-bearing  trees, do not destroy fertile places. Slaughter sheep and camels for food only. Do not burn the bees, do not tear them apart, do not betray the booty. Don't show cowardice. 1295-) From Imam-i  Malik: Omar b. Abdulaziz wrote to one of his governors: According to what it has reached us, when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) sent a series to them; “Fight in the way of Allah in the name of Allah. You are fighting those who deny Allah. Do not betray the booty, do not oppress, do not cut off people's organs, do not kill children.” Tell your army and troops the same. Hello.. 
It has also been narrated as Mawsul: Muslim, al-Jihad  ve's-Siyer,  32/2. 1296-) Imam-i  Malik narrates from a man from Kufa: Omar b. Al-Khattab  wrote to an army commander sent by him: I have heard that some of you are following the Persian notables. When they reach the mountain, they retreat. Meanwhile, one of them says to his (enemy) Persian matras, that is, do not be afraid. But when he caught her, he would kill her. I don't think anyone will do this. If he does, I swear to God I'll cut his neck. Malik says: Since there is no consensus on this hadith, it cannot be acted upon. 1297-) Is asking for mercy with a sign to Imam-i  Malik instead of asking for mercy with words? he was asked. He replied: In my opinion, it is necessary to inform the members of the army that the wishes of those who ask for mercy should be accepted and not be killed. Because in my view, the sign is in the place of the word. Abdullah b. It was narrated to me that Abbas said: There is no community that does not keep their word (breaking the covenant) that Allah does not let their enemies afflict them. 1298-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. When Umar gave something in the way of Allah, he used to say to his friend: The lot is a place in Mecca. When you arrive, save as you wish.» 1299-) Yahya b. From Said: Said b. Musayyeb used to say: If something is given to a person in battle, it will be his when he reaches the place of battle. 1300-) To Imam-i  Malik: "What will a person do if his parents or just someone prevents him at the last moment, who decides to go to war and prepares well?" he was asked. He replied: he should not oppose, but postpone his expedition to the next year. As for the gear he bought for the war, I think he should keep them until he goes to war. If he fears they will spoil, he should sell them and save the money to buy other materials that will be of use in the war. If he is able to get the same materials whenever he wants to go to war, he can use these materials as he wishes.” 
1301-) Abdullah b. From Omar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had sent a military group, including myself, to the Nejd side. We obtained many camels as booty. Twelve or eleven camels fell on each of those in Sariyya. The remainder were distributed one by one. Bukhari, Fardu'l Hums, 57/15; Muslim, al-Jihad  wa's-siyer,  32/35. See also ÿeybanî, 863 1302-) Yahya b. Said, Said b. He relates that Musayyeb said: When the Muslims divided the booty, they counted one camel as equal to ten sheep. Rafi' b. It has been narrated in meaning as derived from hadîc. 
Bukhari, Sharika, 47/3; Muslim, Edahi, 35/21 
1303-) Imam-i  Malik says the following about the person hired for war: 

A share of the booty obtained is given to the person who is free (not a slave, but free) in the battlefield with the others. Otherwise, nothing is given. In my opinion, booty is not given to anyone except those who are free in battle. 1304-) From Imam-i  Malik: In my opinion, if the enemies on Muslim shores claim that they are merchants and that the sea has thrown them on the shore, the Muslims are convinced that their words are true only if their vehicle breaks down or they descend to the shore without permission due to thirst. discretion belongs to the commander, he decides. Only, it seems to me that those who catch them on the beach are not given a fifth. 1305-) From Imam-i  Malik: In my opinion, Muslims can eat the food they obtain when they enter enemy territory, before it is divided among them. 1306-) 
Imam-i  Malik: According to me, the camels, cattle and sheep obtained are like food. When Muslims enter enemy territory, they can eat from them. If they are not eaten until the Muslims gather and distribute, they will be spoiled. This situation hurts the army. For him, there is no harm in eating all that is obtained. Also, I don't find it right for a member of the army to save some of the loot and bring it home. 1307-) To Imam-i  Malik: "Is it better for a man who eats from the food obtained in the enemy's lands and takes provisions, to hide the leftover food and bring it to his house and eat it, or is it better for him to take advantage of his money by selling them before coming to his hometown?" he was asked. He replied: If he sells it while he is at war, he will add the price to the common booty. 1308-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Abdullah b. Omar's slave and horse ran away. The polytheists captured this slave and the horse. Later, the Muslims took them as booty. The owner of this slave and horse was Abdullah b. Delivered to Ömer. Bukhari (al-Cihad ve's-Siyer,  56/187) narrates it as masûl. 1309-) From Imam-i  Malik: If the Muslims' possessions fall into the hands of the enemy, they are returned to their owners, if they fall into the hands of the Muslims again and the owner is determined before they are divided. If, after the division of the booty, it is determined that these goods belonged to Muslims before, they will not be returned to their owners. 
1310-) "What would happen if the slave of a Muslim fell into the hands of the polytheists and then the Muslims took this slave back from the polytheists as booty?" Imam-i  Malik gave the following answer to the question: If the condition of the slave is known before the spoils are divided, the first owner is more deserving of taking it without paying anything, without incurring any debt in order to own the slave again. If the first owner of the slave is determined after the loot is divided, he can buy the slave in exchange for money. 1311-) From Imam-i  Malik: If a Muslim man's child-bearing  concubine (ummi parent) falls into the hands of the enemies, then the Muslims take this woman from the enemy again as a booty; If the woman falls into the share of another Muslim while the booty is being distributed, the owner of the woman will meet the woman, in this case it is impossible to make that woman a concubine. This is my opinion, if the commander is going to give this woman to anyone who has his share, he must pay the ransom to the original owner. If she does not pay, the original owner must not pay the ransom and leave her with someone else. Again, in my opinion, it is not right for the owner of the woman to make her a slave and have sexual relations with her. Because a woman is a free woman, her master is obliged to pay her ransom. 1312-) Imam-i  Malik was asked what would be the situation of a 
man who went to the enemy's country as an ambassador or for commercial purposes, if he bought a free or slave from there or was given one of these as a gift. He replied: If the person he bought is free, the buyer cannot make him a slave. However, he has to pay the debt to the man who bought him. If this money is donated to him, he is free and has no debt. But if the man has given something as a reward to the free person whom he bought, then the free person is indebted, just like money for which he has bought it. On the other hand, the first owner of the slave is free to pay the price of the slave to the buyer or not. If he wishes, he will take the slave and pay the buyer. The slave becomes his own. If he wants to give it to her, he will. If the slave is donated to him, the first owner is more worthy of receiving the slave. Also, you don't have to pay anything. Only if the slave has paid something as a reward to the donated slave and if the first owner wants to take the slave back, he owes what he paid to the donated man. 
1313-) Abu Qatada b. He narrates Rib: In the year of the battle of Hunayn, we went on an expedition with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). When faced with the enemy, there was a liveliness and movement among the Muslims. Once I saw that one of the polytheists was about to kill one of the Muslims. I immediately went back and came up behind him and hit him on the back of the neck with the sword, he looked at me, such a look that I knew he was going to die. He died a little later, so I survived. Meanwhile, Umar b. I met Khattab. He asked him: Where are the Muslims, what are they doing?' said. I don't know,” he said. Later, the Muslims gathered and returned. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever fights (the enemy) kills him and If it is known with clear evidence that he killed the deceased, what comes out of the dead belongs to him.» Hearing these words, he immediately stood up and asked: Who will testify?' I said and sat down. Then I stood up for the third time and said the same thing. Thereupon, the Prophet said: What is the matter with you, Abu Qatada? she asked. I also told the story. A man from the community: O Messenger of Allah! Those who came out of that man are with me. Tell him that he may grant his right." said. Hazrat Abu Bakr intervened immediately: No, by Allah. It is not right to give you the right of one of the lions of Allah who fought for the sake of Allah and His Messenger. The Prophet said: True, give them to him!' he commanded. He gave me what came out of the polytheist I killed. So I bought a garden from Beni Seleme by selling the leftovers. This was the first property I acquired after becoming a Muslim. Bukhari, Fardu'l.Hums, 57/18; Muslim, al-Jihad  wa's-Siyer,  32/41. 1314-) Kasÿm b. From Muhammad: One of the men Abdullah b. I heard you asked Abbas about the booty. Ibn Abbas replied to him: “A horse is a booty. The ones that come out of the enemy you kill are also a trophy.” Then the man repeated his questions. Ibn Abbas also said the same thing. Man: What is the thing that Allahu ta'ala calls "bootys" (anfal) in his book?" he asked, holding it out so hard he almost used it. On top of that: Do you know that incident? Umar b. He said, "The incident of Khattab beating Sabig..." This event, Darimi's Süleyman b. According to what he narrated from Yesar and Nafi, it happened as follows. A man went to Medina and began to ask questions about the mutashabih verses of the Qur'an. Hazrat Umar immediately sent word to this man and called him. He also prepared sticks from date palm stalks for him. When the man came: "Who are you?" he asked. I Abdullah b. I'm Omer!» He split the man's head with one blow. Man: That's enough, Emirel believer! The resignations in my head have dissipated…” he began to beg. Then Hazrat Umar deported the man to Basra. 1315-) To Imam-i  Malik: "Can a person who kills the enemy by fighting, take what is on the enemy without the permission of the commander? they asked. He replied: No one can take anything without the permission of the commander. The commander decides on this matter according to his own jurisprudence. The hadith of Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) saying, “He who fights an enemy and kills him will also take over him” did not reach me. In this regard, I think only the example of the battle of Hunayn is known.” 
1316-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: One-fifth  of the booty was distributed to the soldiers. Malik says: This is the best narration I have heard and liked on this subject. 1317-) Imam-i  Malik, "Is the first booty a booty?" he was asked. He replied: It depends on the ijtihad of the commander. There is no known and applied example on this subject other than the commander's jurisprudence. I did not receive a narration that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) divided all the booty obtained in the war. However, I know that he divided some of the spoils obtained in the battle of Hunayn. This means that the ijtihad (decision and permission) of the commander is essential for the distribution of the first and last booty. 1318-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Umar b. Abdulaziz used to say: A horse is given two shares, and a person is given one share. 
Bukhari, al-Jihad  ve's-Siyer,  56/51; Muslim, al-Jihad  ve's-Siyer,  32/57. According to this hadith, the cavalry is given three shares, one for himself and two for his horse. The infantry is given one share. This is the rule in Maliki, Shafii and Hanbali madhhabs. Such is the ijtihad of Abu Yusuf and Imam Muhammad in the Hanafi school. According to Abu Hanifa, two shares are given to the cavalry and one share to the infantry. Malik: "I still hear this (from various people)!" said. 1319-) Imam-i  Malik: "Is a man who participated in the war with many horses given a separate share of the booty for each horse?" he was asked. He replied: I have never heard of it. Besides, in my opinion, only the horse on which he fought is given a share of the booty.” 1320-) Imam-i  Malik says: The Turkish horse (kadana) and his camel are also horses. Because in the Quran: "Horse, mule and donkey are for riding and adornment." It is called en-Nahl,  8. Yet another verse of the Qur'an states: "Prepare as many forces and horses as you can for your enemies, so that you can chase your enemies and Allah", al-Anfal,  60. I accept the Turkish horse and the arabian camel as a horse. 
As a share of the booty is given to the ancestor, they are also given Said b. Musayyeb also said the same. When asked if zakat is due on a Turkish horse, he replied: "If it falls, let it fall on a Turkish horse". 
1321-) Amr b. Shuayb narrates: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) left Hunayn, he wanted to go to Ci'irrane. Those present wanted the division of the booty. At that moment, the camel of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) approached a tree, and when its rida caught on the tree, it came out of its back. The Prophet: Bring my Ridam!» he commanded. Then he said: “Are you afraid that I will not divide what God has given you as booty? I swear by God, with whose strength and will I live, that if God gave you as many blessings as the trees in Tihame, I would still divide it between you. You cannot see me as a stingy, a coward, or a liar." When he stopped in a place, he stood up among the army: Bring everything from needle to thread. Because treason against booty is a shame, fire and great fault for those who do it on the Day of Judgment.” Then he picked up a camel's hair (or something else) from the ground: Strengthen me. 
I swear by Allah, who keeps you alive with His will and will, that even one-fifth  of what Allah has given you as booty does not belong to me. This one-fifth  is also spent on you.” Ibn Abdilber says: "There is no conflict with Malik in the formation of Mursal 1322-) From Zayd b. Khalid al-Juheni:  One of them died in the battle of Hunayn. They informed the Prophet about the situation (for him to lead his prayer). He said: "Perform your friend's prayer." We immediately opened his belongings and looked at them. Among his belongings were Jewish necklaces worth two dirhams. Nesai (Kasmi'l-Fey;  38/7) narrated as apocalyptic. Ebu Davud, Jihad, 15/133; Nesai, Cengiz, 21/66 ; Ibn Majah, Jihad, 24/34. 
1323-) Abdullah b. Mugire b. From Abi Burda al-Kinani:  The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stopped by a tribe and prayed for them. Meanwhile, he did not pray to any of the tribes. In the research done. A stolen booty necklace was found under the saddle of a man from the tribe that the Prophet did not pray to. When they brought it to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), the Prophet uttered takbir as if he were saying takbir to the dead. Ibn Abdilber says: "I do not know that this hadith was narrated as musnad in any way." 
1324-) Abu Huraira narrates: We set out with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the year of the Battle of Hunayn. In this war, neither gold nor silver was obtained other than goods, clothes and goods as booty. b. Zayd gave the Prophet a black slave as a gift. They called this slave Mid'am. The Prophet (pbuh) headed towards Vadiül Kura, and when he got there, Mid'am was taking off his gear from the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) mount. Suddenly, an arrow from unknown origin hit him and killed him immediately. When the people said, "Heaven be blessed", the Prophet said: I swear by Allah, with whom I lived with his strength and will, that he bought a dress in the Battle of Khaybar before the spoils were divided, it will throw him into Hell. When the people there heard these words, a man brought one or two slippers to the Prophet. Thereupon, the Prophet said: The stolen property is a piece of Hell even if it is one or two slippers. Bukhari, al-Eyman  wa'n-Nuzür,  83/33; Muslim, faith, 1/183. 
1325-) Abdullah b. From Abbas: There is no society that betrays the booty and their hearts do not fall into fear. There is no community where deaths do not increase even though adultery has become widespread, their food is not cut even though they do not measure and weigh less, their blood feuds do not increase despite unjust decisions, and Allah does not afflict their enemies even though they do not keep their word. Ibn Abdilber says: "We have narrated this conclusively. It cannot be said with such re (reason)." 1326-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I swear by Allah, with whom I live by his will, that I would love to fight in His cause and be killed, then be resurrected and killed again, and then be resurrected and killed. .» Abu Huraira said three times: "As God is my witness, he said so". Bukhari, Temenni, 94/1; Muslim, Imaret, 33/106, 1327-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Allah laughs at two people (in this situation): One kills the other, both of them enter Paradise. It happens like this: One of them fights in the way of Allah and while he is killed, he becomes a martyr. The other one regrets what he has done and becomes a Muslim, then he fights in the way of Allah and becomes a martyr. Thus, he too will enter Paradise.” Bukhari, Jihad, 56/28; Muslim, Imaret, 33/128. 
1328-) Abu Huraira reports that the Prophet said: "I swear by Allah, who made me live with his strength and will, that no one was injured in the way of Allah -although Allah knows who was injured in the way of Allah -from the wound on the Day of Judgment. blood comes gushing out, its color is blood-colored,  and its scent is musk.” Bukhari, Jihad, 56/109; Muslim, Imaret, 33/105. 1329-) Umar b. From Khattab: O Allah, may my death not be at the hands of someone who has prostrated even once in his life. Because on the Day of Judgment, he tries to justify himself with this prostration. 
1330-) Abdullah b. Abi Qatada narrates from his father: A man came to the Prophet and said: O Messenger of Allah! If I fight in the way of Allah patiently, expecting only from Him, and never turning back, will Allah cover my faults?” she asked. The Prophet said: Yes. When the man turned and left, the Prophet called him (or had the man summoned) to him: What did you say?' she asked. The man repeated what he had just said. Upon this, the Prophet said: Yes, he forgives all his mistakes, but he does not forgive the debt. This is what Gabriel told me.” Muslim, Imaret, 33/117. 1331-) Omen b. Abu Nadr, the freedman of Ubeydullah, said to the martyrs of Uhud: "I am a witness that they acted with faith", when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to the martyrs of Uhud, "Are we not their friends, O Messenger of Allah? We became Muslims like them, and we fought as they did jihad.” Upon this, the Prophet said: Yes, you did, but I do not know what you will do after me. Upon this statement, Hadrat Abu Bakr wept, then said: Will we be like that after you?' said. Ibn Abdilber says: "According to all narrators, it is mursal. However, its meaning is musnad in many ways." 
1332-) Yahya b. From Said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sitting in Medina, there was a grave next to him. 
was being dug. A man looked at this grave and said: What a terrible place for a believer!' said. Thereupon, the Prophet said: You did not say good! he commanded. Man: I did not mean the grave, O Messenger of Allah! I meant that being a martyr in the way of Allah would be better than sleeping here.” he affirmed his word. The Prophet said three times: There is no such thing as martyrdom in the way of Allah. There is no other place on earth where I would most like to have my grave.” He praised Medina. Ibn Abdilber says: "I do not know this hadith as musnad. However, it has been narrated in meaning from Malik and others. 
1333-) Zayd b. Eÿlem, Ömer b. He narrates that Khattab prayed: My God! My wish is to be a martyr in your way and to die in the country of your Messenger, Bukhari (Fedâilu'l-Medina,  29/12), narrated 1334-) Yahya b. From Said: Omar b. Khattab said: A believer's honor is his piety, his religious lineage, his goodness is his morals. Courage and cowardice are attributes that Allah gives to whom He wills. The coward runs away from his father and mother, and the brave man fights without fear, disregarding his life. Being killed is also a kind of death, a martyr is a person who dedicates himself to Allah. 
1335-) Abdullah b. From Umar: Umar b. Khattab was washed, shrouded and prayed. He was a martyr, may Allah have mercy on him. 1336-) Imam-i  Malik was told by some of the scholars: Those who were martyred in the way of Allah neither bathe nor pray one by one. They are buried in the clothes of their martyrdom. Malik says: The above applies to those who were killed on the battlefield. If a person who moves to the rear of the front after being wounded on the battlefield lives there for a while and dies after that, then he will both wash and pray. Indeed, Umar b. This is what was done to Khattab. 
1337-) Yahya b. From Said: Omar b. Khattab used to send forty thousand camels in a year. He would send one person to Damascus with a camel and two to Iraq with a camel. Once an Iraqi man came to him and said: Give me and Suhaym a camel!' said. Umar b. Khattab: “For God's sake! Suhaym Zikk?» said. Man: "Yes!" gave the answer. As it is understood from this, the Iraqi who came does not have a friend named Sühaym and Hazrat Umar realized this. Hazrat Umar, who pretended to know the person the man was talking about, revealed that the man was lying in this way, but did not say anything to him and gave him the camels he wanted. 1338-) Enes b. Malik narrates: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) went to Cuba, Mühan's daughter would stop by Umm Haram, and she would feed and drink our Prophet. Umm Haram, Ubade b. He was under Samit's wedding. Another day, the Prophet stopped by Umm Haram. Umm Haram offered her food. Then I sat down and started to ruffle my hair. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) fell asleep. He woke up laughing. Umm Haram: Why are you laughing, O Messenger of Allah?' she asked. The Prophet replied: A group of people from my ummah were shown to me as veterans fighting in the way of Allah. They stood like kings (or kings on thrones) on a throne in the middle of that sea?» Umm Haram: Messenger of Allah! Pray that I may be one of them!” he asked. The Prophet prayed to him. Then he laid his head and slept. He woke up laughing. Umm Haram: O Messenger of Allah! Why are you laughing?" she asked. Our Prophet answered as he did for the first time: A group of people from my ummah were shown to me as veterans fighting in the way of Allah. They were like kings on thrones (or kings on thrones).” Umm Haram again said: O Messenger of Allah! Pray to Allah to make me one of them.” The Prophet: You are one of the first! he commanded. Haram boarded a ship during the time of Muawiyah. When he came ashore from the ship, he was on his way with an animal. However, he fell from his mount and died. Bukhari, Jihad, 56/3; Muslim, Imaret, 33/160. 
Haram was one of the foster mothers of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). As a matter of fact, Umm Haram's sister Umm Sulaym also nursed the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Umm Haram participated in the conquest of Cyprus during the time of Hadrat Muawiya. When the island of Cyprus was conquered, a mule was brought for Umm Haram to ride on the way back to Damascus. This venerable woman, who was very old, threw her from the back of the angry mule she was riding and fell on her head, and thus, as the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) informed, she was martyred in the sea expedition. His tomb is in Cyprus. Bukhari commentator Aynî says: “The grave of Umm Haram is in Cyprus. He is honored by the people, and rain is demanded for his sake in dry times, and it is called the grave of a righteous woman among the people.» His daughter Umm Haram was buried where she fell from the mule. His tomb is on the shore of Salt Lake near Larnaca. Today, the woman known as Hala Sultan in Cyprus is this lady. The Turks built a mausoleum and a mosque on the site of his grave. Hala Sultan Tomb is still a pilgrimage site even today. 
1339-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If I had not put hardships on my ummah, I would not have been behind any series in the way of Allah. But I couldn't find a mount to get them on, and they won't be able to find a way to get on. It's hard for them not to be able to go out every time like me after me. However, how I would love to fight in the way of Allah and be killed, then to be resurrected and killed again, and then to be resurrected and killed again.” Bukhari, Jihad, 56/119; Muslim, Imaret, 33/103, 
106. 
1340-) Yahya b. From Said, the Prophet in the Battle of Uhud: « Sa'd b. Who has heard of er-Rebi'  al-Ansari? 
will he bring?» she asked. A man said: I am O Messenger of Allah!' he said, and then began to wander around the battlefield. Seeing the man, Sa'd b. er-Rebi':  What is it?» she asked. The man said to him: The Prophet sent me to bring news from you. said. Upon this, Sa'd said: Say hello to our Prophet from me and inform him that I have received twelve wounds. All of the scars are on my vital parts. Tell your people that if something happens to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), even if one of them remains, their excuses will be invalid in Allah's religion.” said. Ibn Abdilber says; "This hadith is narrated only by the people of the siyar. According to them, it is famous and well known. 1341-) From Yahya bin Said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) talked 
about Paradise by encouraging him to jihad. 
A person from the Ansar was eating the dates he had at this time. Thereupon: If I sit until all this is over, it means that I am a person full of ambition to live.» He said and threw the dates in his hand, took up his sword and fought until he was martyred. Mursel. Bukhari and Muslim narrated it as mawsul. Bukhari, Maghazi, 64/17; Muslim, imaret, 33/143. 
1342-) Muaz b. From Cebel: There are two kinds of war. In one, the most precious goods are sacrificed, friends help each other, commanders are obeyed, and corruption is avoided. This kind of war is beneficial from beginning to end. In the second type of war, the most valuable goods are not spent. Friends do not help each other, commanders are not obeyed, and mischief is inevitable. Those who participate in this kind of war cannot return satisfactorily. This hadith is mawkuf. It has also been narrated from Muaz as merfu. Abu Dawud, Jihad, 15/24; Nesai, Jihad 1343-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Goodness is on the forehead of the horse until the Day of Judgment." Bukhari, al-Jihad  ve's-Siyer,  56/43; Muslim, Imaret, 33/96. The continuity of the war and therefore the importance of the horse is stated in the hadith. According to another hadith, "Jihad will continue until the Day of Judgment." is called. 
1344-) Abdullah b. From Omar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made the fat horses race between Hafya and Saniyyetül Veda. Among the horses that were not fed, he had them jog between Saniyye and Beni Zureyk Masjid. Abdullah b. Ömer was one of the participants in this race. 1345-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: There is no harm in placing prizes in horse races. Among the contestants participating in the race, the winner of the race receives this award, and the non-winner  receives nothing. Bukhari, Salat, 8/41; Muslim, Imaret, 33/95. 1346-) Yahya b. From Said: They saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wiping the face of his horse with his rida. When asked why he did this, he said: Tonight, my attention was drawn to the horse. Mursel. Ibn abdilber, Ubeydullah b. It was narrated by Amr al-Fihri-Malik-Yahya-Anas,  as apotheosis. 1347-) Enes b. From Malik: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) set out for Khaybar. He was there at night. When he was going to attack a tribe, he would never attack until morning. Here, too, the Jews took their hoes and baskets and left their homes in the morning. When he saw the Prophet: Muhammad! I swear it! "Muhammad and his army," they were alarmed. Thereupon, the Prophet said: Allahu Akbar, Khaybar was destroyed. When we camp in front of a tribe, how bad is the morning of those who are frightened by the punishment”. Bukhari, Jihad, 56/'] 02; Muslim, al-Jihad  ve's-Siyer,  32/120,121. 1348-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever gives two things in the way of Allah, he will be out of Paradise: O servant of Allah, this place is better for you." it is shouted. Those who are fond of prayer are called from the door of prayer, those who are fond of jihad are called from the door of jihad, those who are fond of alms are called from the alms box, and those who are fond of fasting are called from the gate of Reyyan. Hazrat Abu Bakr heard: O Messenger of Allah! Is it necessary for someone to be called through only one of these doors? Is there anyone to be summoned from all these gates?” she asked. He replied, "Yes, I hope you are one of them." Bukhari, Savm, 30/4; Muslim, Zakat, 12/85, 86. 1349-) Imam-i  Malik was asked: While a head of state receives jizyah from the dhimmis under his protection, will the lands of the Muslims be left to them or will they be given to the Muslims? What are their other goods? Malik replied: This is evaluated in many different ways. If an agreement was made with them without war and there were some who accepted Islam among them, they would be more deserving of taking their lands and properties. If they became dhimmis by force of war and some of them accepted Islam, their land and property belong to Muslims. Because they were defeated in their country. All their wealth has been a booty for the Muslims. As for the dhimmis, with whom an agreement was reached, they secured their property and their lives by agreement. They are only given the goods they have agreed upon. 
1350-) Abdurrahman b. From Ebî Sa'sa: Amr b. 
Cemuh and Abdullah b. The flood had taken the graves of Amr. Because their graves were coming to the mouth of the flood, 
they were both buried in the same tomb, and both were martyrs of Uhud. Immediately another grave was dug for them. 
When the grave they were found in was opened, it was seen that their bodies were not deteriorated as if they had just died 
in the evening! One of them was injured and put his hand on the wound. Thus he was buried. When the grave was opened, they 
took his hand over the wound, then the hand came back to the wound, it was put on the same as before. Uhut with the opening of the tomb 

Forty-six  years had passed between the war. 1351-) From Imam-i  Malik: There is no harm in burying two or three people in the same grave in case of necessity. However, the oldest should be placed on the qibla side. 1352-) Rabia b. From Abu Abdurrahman: Hadrat Abu Bakr received some goods from Bahrain. Thereupon, Hadrat Abu Bakr said: If the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) has a word or a promise, let him come! said. Jabir b. Abdullah came, Hadrat Abu Bakr gave him three pinches of food. Abu Omar says: "Muwatta is munqat with the consensus of its narrators. Bukhari, Bail, 39/3; Muslim, Fadail, 43/6961. 1353-) Abdullah b. From Abbas: Sa'd b. Ubade requested a fatwa from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); My mother died while she was in debt, she could not fulfill her vow.» said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) also said; So fulfill your vow instead.” he commanded. Bukhari, Vesaya, 55/19; Muslim, Nazr, 26/1. See also Shaybani, 750. The nazir here is absolute, that is, the taxpayer "Let there be a zmir for Allah!" says, but does not explain what a nazrin is; or mukayyet, that is, the type of nazrin such as prayer, fasting and pilgrimage are explained. If the nazir is absolute, then according to Imam-i  Malik and many scholars, the expiation of the oath is necessary. When it comes to the status of the deceased person's zmir, this is either in terms of physical or financial worship. If the nazir is in the form of bodily worship, his heirs do not have to perform his ordination. Because our Master the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “No one can fast for another person and no one can pray for another person”. If the nazir is in the form of financial worship and has not willed its fulfillment, it is not obligatory for his heirs to perform the nazir. If he has willed, it is obligatory for his heirs to pay the debt of one third of his property. For this reason, the ruling in the hadith is accepted as mustahab by the Hanafis. (See Bezlül-Mechûd,  volume 14. p. 261). 1354-) Abdullah b. Ebî Bakr narrates from his aunt and he from his grandmother: His grandmother dedicated to walking as far as Masjid al-Cuba.  He died before he could fulfill his vow. Thereupon, Abdullah b. Abbas issued a fatwa for his daughter to walk in his place. 1355-) From Imam-i  Malik: No one can walk in the place of another. ÿeybanî, 746 1356-) Abdullah b. From Abi Habiba: I was still young. If I say to a man: I will walk as far as the Baytullah, what would be necessary if I did not say that walking as far as the Baytullah should be a blessing?” I asked. One of the men showed me a small cucumber in his hand and said: "If you say you will walk to Beytullah, I will give it to you." 
I said: Yes, I will walk as far as Baytullah. I was still young then. After waiting for a while, I understood the situation. I was told: I need it. Ben Said b. I came to Musayyeb and explained the situation, and he said to me: I need it.' When he said that, I walked. Malik says: The situation is the same among us people of Madinah. Shaybani, 745. There is no difference between saying "I will walk as far as Baytullah" and saying "I will not be allowed to walk as far as Baytullah". Also, if he has stopped going here for pilgrimage, it is obligatory upon him to go. However, if he has stopped him to pray, he will go again according to Imam-i  Malik and Shafi'i; According to Abu Hanifa, he does not have to go. You can pray anywhere. 
1357-) Urve b. From Uzayna al-Leysi:  I went out of the house with my grandmother. He had stopped walking as far as Baitullah. It stopped after walking for a while. Abdullah b. He sent it to Omar. We set off together. Abdullah b. He asked Omer about the situation. Abdullah: Tell him to get on a mount. Then he walks from the place where he was cut off," he said. According to the Hanafi Sect, if a person who dedicates himself to pilgrimage on foot becomes incapacitated, he sends a bedy sacrifice. 1358-) Imam-i  Malik also says: He has to do as stated above, and he also sacrifices. 
1359-) Again, Imam-i  Malik, Said b. Müseyyeb and Ebû Salama b. Abdurrahman's Abdullah b. As Omar said, what he said has been narrated. Shaybani, 746. 1360-) Yahya b. From Said: I was sick of walking, suddenly a pain came. I immediately got on a mount and came all the way to Mecca, Ata b. I consulted with Abi Rebah and the others, they said: You have to send a sacrifice to the Kaaba." I came to Medina. I also asked the scholars there about the situation. They told me to walk again from where I couldn't walk because of the pain. I walked too. 1361-) For a person from Imam-i  Malik who says: "I have dedicated myself to walking up to the Baytullah," the situation is as stated above among us, the people of Madinah. If he can't walk, he gets on a mount. He sends either a camel, cattle or sheep to the Kaaba as a sacrifice. 1362-) Imam-i  Malik "I will take you to Baytullah!" He was asked about the situation of a man who said. He replied: If the man who said it had set his mind to carry it on his shoulders and to make himself suffer with it and to discipline himself, he would not need to take that man to the Kaaba. Let him go on foot and make a sacrifice. If he hasn't thought of anything when he said I will take you to Beytullah, then he should get on a mount and perform pilgrimage, and go with the man he promised on his way. In this case, that man would have said, "I will take you to Baytullah." If the man does not want to go on pilgrimage with him, he does not need anything, he has paid his debt. 1363-) Imâm-i  Malik was asked about this nezri, who promised that he would not talk to his brother or father in such and such a way, and who, if he did, would not be able to do so if he vowed to walk as far as the Baytullah. This situation If it were to be renewed every year, he would have made a lifelong vow that he could not fulfill. Is it sufficient for a man in this situation to perform one of the ministers or to fulfill a certain one?" he was asked. Imam-i  Malik replied, "I don't know if anything else will suffice if he just fulfills what he has implied. He walks as much as he can, and tries to win Allah's approval by doing as much goodness for the rest as he can. Shaybani, 748 1364-) From Imam-i  Malik: The most beautiful statement I have heard from scholars is the answer given to the question of what happens if a man or woman who has sworn to walk up to the Baytullah breaks their oath. If the person who took an oath made his way to the Baytullah while performing umrah, then he performs the sa'yi between Safa and Marwa and leaves there. If he has forbidden to go on pilgrimage on foot, then he walks up to Mecca and leaves after the pilgrimage is completely over. The visitor continues to walk until he completes his circumambulation. It is only possible to walk as far as Hajj and Umrah. 
1365-) Humayd b. Kays and Sevr b. Zayd ad-Dilî  is narrating from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). However, the Narration from Zayd is slightly longer than that of the other friend: The Prophet saw a man standing in the sun: What is this man doing?» she asked. The people there said: He was forbidden not to speak, to stand under the sun, not to sit and to fast. Thereupon, the Prophet said: Tell him to speak, to step into the shade, to sit down rather than to stand, but to complete his fast. This is mursal. It also came from Ibn Abbas. Bukhari, al-Ayman  wa'n-Nuzûr,  83/31. 1366-) Imam-i  Malik: I have not heard that the Prophet ordered atonement for that person regarding the above-mentioned  matter. However, I have heard that Allah has commanded him to complete what is obedient and to abandon what is disobedience. 
According to Hanafis, the nezir, which is a disgrace, is abandoned. In its place, the kaffarah of the oath is given. Because our Master the Prophet has a hadith in this sense. 1367-) Kasÿm b. From Muhammad: Abdullah b. A woman came to Abbas and said: I have ordered the sacrifice of my son. Ibn Abbas: Do not slaughter your son, give expiation for your oath.» said. Meanwhile, an elder sitting next to Ibn Abbas intervened and asked: How can there be expiation in this matter?' said. Ibn Abbas also recited the following verse by saying: "He who makes zihar pays": The wives of those who do zihar are not their mothers. Their mothers are none other than those who gave birth to them... Those who want to separate from their women with zihar and then retract their words must free a slave before they can come into contact with each other. Here is the advice you are given. Allah is well aware of what you do. But whoever cannot find (this) should fast for two consecutive months before they come into contact with each other. If he can't afford that, let him feed sixty poor." al-Fighting:2-4.  See also Shaybani, 752. 1368-) Hadrat Aisha narrates that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever refuses to obey Allah should obey him, and whoever refuses to disobey Allah, let him not disobey Allah." Hanafi According to his sect, the vow of rebellion against Allah is not fulfilled, but the expiation of the oath is paid. Malik says: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever refuses to disobey Allah, let him not disobey him." The meaning of the hadith is as follows: There is nothing related to obedience to Allah in the person's refusal to walk as far as Damascus, Egypt, Rebeza and some other places. There is nothing that requires responsibility if he talks to something like that or something like that. He can break his mind by talking, or break his oath. In these matters, there is no direct question of obedience to Allah. Only the obedience to Allah must be fulfilled. Shaybani, 753. 
1369-) The mother of the believers, Hadrat Aisha, used to say: Yemin-i  Lagw is when a person swears by saying no, by Allah, yes by Allah. 1370-) From Imam-i  Malik: The best description I have heard on this subject is as follows: Oath-i  abolition is the state of a person to swear by firmly believing that something is so, but to realize that it is not. 
1371-) The oath of oath is that a man takes an oath that he will not sell his clothes for ten dinars, and then sells it again for ten dinars, or swears that he will beat his slave, and similar oaths that are not fulfilled. A person who makes an oath pays an oath, but one who takes an oath does not pay. 1372-) From Imam-i  Malik: To knowingly swear on sin, to swear falsely, to swear to please someone or to excuse someone, or to take an oath in order to have a property is a greater sin than an oath paid with expiation. This is called an oath gamus (perjury), which is deliberate perjury. It is one of the major sins. It is not paid with redemption. He must repent. For the hadith, see also Shaybani, 756. 
1373-) Abdullah b. From Omar: Whoever swears by Allah and says "God willing" after him and does not fulfill this oath will not have broken his oath. The Hanafi sect also adopts this view in such oaths. 1374-) From Imam-i  Malik: He should say insha'Allah before he finishes his speech. This is the best I've ever heard. Because, by Allah, and insha'Allah, the words were said one after the other, without being silent. If he had paused between these two words, the exception would not have occurred. 
1375-) "Let me deny Allah!" Imam-i  Malik says about a person who takes an oath by saying "I must have associated partners with Allah" and then breaks his oath: "There is no need for expiation for him, he becomes neither a disbeliever nor a polytheist. 
However, if polytheism and blasphemy have settled in his heart, the situation will change. He should ask Allah's forgiveness, 
and that such a thing should not happen to him again, he would have done something very bad. Shaybani, 749 1376-) 
Abu Huraira reports that the Prophet said: "Whoever takes an oath and then sees that it would be better to do the opposite, let 
him make expiation for his oath and do what he finds good." 
Muslim, Eyman, 27/12 
1377-) From Imam-i  Malik: Whoever says to be a blessing on me without stating anything, has to give expiation for the oath. 

1378-) Imam-i  Malik explains the oath of tawkid as follows: A person takes an oath on an oath. For example, he swears three 

or more oaths in large numbers, saying that by God I can't do anything less than this or that. A single expiation is sufficient 
for them, just like the expiation of the oath. For example, if a person swears once that he will not eat this food, wear this dress, or 
touch this house, it is sufficient expiation. 

1379-) If a man swears to his wife in one sentence after another that if I wear your dress and let you go to the mosque, and if 
he breaks any of these oaths, the man must divorce. 
From now on, breaking his oath in other matters does not impose a new responsibility on him. If he breaks his oath even in just one 
of the matters he has sworn, the oath will be broken. 1380-) Imam-i  Malik says: The situation is the same among us people of 
Madinah when it comes to the nazri of women. A nazir becomes obligatory on a woman without her husband's permission. If it 
concerns her body and it does not harm her husband, she fulfills her oath. If she is harming her husband, the husband can forbid 
her from doing so. Then it remains on him as a debt until he fulfills it. 

1381-) Abdullah b. From Umar: If a person takes an oath (he swears several times about something) and then breaks his oath, he 
will either free a slave or clothe ten poor people. If he takes an oath without repentance and then breaks his oath, he has to feed 
ten poor people. Every poor person is given one mud of wheat. If he cannot find it, he fasts for three days. Shaybani, 739. 

1382-) Nafi', Abdullah b. He reports that Umar fed ten poor by giving one mud of wheat to each poor person as an expiation for his 
oath, and that he freed a few slaves if he took the oath. 
1383-) Süleyman b. From Yesar: I have reached the time when Muslims gave a mud of wheat with a small mud unit as an 
expiation for the oath. They would consider that much sufficient for them. 1384-) From Imam-i  Malik: The best thing I've 
heard of as expiation for an oath is dressing the poor. If men are to be dressed, one-piece  clothes that will suffice for prayer: If 
women are to be dressed, they should be dressed as a head covering and a long skirt, top and bottom. This is the measure of 
veiling that we consider sufficient for them to pray. Shaybani, 738. 

1385-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Umar b. He caught up with Khattab taking an oath on a mount 
by his father. “God has forbidden you to swear by your fathers. Whoever takes an oath should take an oath by Allah or remain 
silent”. Bukhari, al-Eymân  ve'n-Nuzûr,  83/4; Muslim, Ayman, 27/3 1386-) From Imam-i  Malik: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 
swore: "No! I swear by God who changes hearts.” Zürkanî says: "As it is known, his narration with eloquence is sound, maybe it 
came to him from his teacher, Musa b. Ukba." al-Eymân  ve'n-Nuzûr,  83/3. To change hearts is not to physically turn them aside, 
but to change the direction of the hearts' states and desires. 1387-) From Ibn Shihab: According to the narrations that came to me, 
Abu Lubabe b. When Allah Almighty accepted Abdulmunzir's repentance, he came to the Prophet and said: O Messenger of Allah! 
I emigrate from the country of my tribe where I have sinned, I will be your neighbor. For the sake of Allah and His Messenger, I 
give up all my property by giving it as charity." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him, "It is 
enough if you give a third of them as charity, not all of them". 

1388-) From Hazrat Aisha (radiyallahu anh), mother of believers; To Hazrat Aisha: "Let my property be sacrificed for the door of 
the Kaaba!" He was asked about the condition of a man who swore. He replied: "He gives expiation from his property." 1389-) To 
Imam-i  Malik: "Let my property be sacrificed in the way of Allah!" He was asked about a man who took an oath and then broke his 
oath. He replied: He will give a third in the way of Allah. This decree was transmitted from the Prophet regarding the issue of Ebâ 
Lübabe. 
1390-) Bera b. From Azip: He asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) “what should be avoided in 
choosing an animal for sacrifice?” he was asked. The Prophet, pointing with his hand, said: "Four things!" he commanded. While 
conveying this, Bara was pointing with his hand and adding: "My hand is shorter than that of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)". 
Then, continuing the words of the Prophet: "He will not be obviously lame, one of his eyes will not be blind, he will not be seriously 
ill, and he will not be so weak that he cannot recover." he finished. The Hanafi sect takes this hadith as evidence regarding the 
conditions required for sacrificial animals. 

1391-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar, sacrificial cattle and camels, their organs were deficient and their age became suitable. 
He was reluctant to cut off those who did not come. From Malik: This is the behavior I have heard and liked the most. 
Shaybani, 630,631. 
1392-) Nafi narrates: Abdullah b. Omar sacrificed once in Medina. He ordered me to buy a ram with its horns removed, and 
then to slaughter it on the day of Eid-al-Adha  where the people gathered for prayer. 
I did too. Then the coach was taken to him. While the victim was being slaughtered, he shaved his head. He was not able to 
attend the feast with the congregation because he was ill. He used to say: "It is not obligatory for the sacrificer to shave his 
hair." However, Ibn Umar did so. Shaybani, 631. 
1393-) Buseyr b. from Yesar; Ebû Hürde b. Niyar had sacrificed his sacrifice before the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 
returned from the prayer on the day of Eid. According to his own claims, the Prophet ordered him to sacrifice another sacrifice 
again. Thereupon, Abu Burda said: There is a chebish (goat cub) that is over one year old, I could not find anything else, O 
Messenger of Allah!' When the Prophet said: If you can't find another one, cut it! he commanded. Bukhari, Ideyn, 13/5; Muslim, 
Edahi, 35/4-9. 
1394-) Abbad b. From Tamim: Uveymir b. Ashkar had sacrificed his sacrifice before returning from the prayer on the 
morning of Eid. He asked Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) about the situation. The Prophet ordered him to sacrifice 
another sacrifice. Ibn Mace, Edahi, 26/12. See also ÿeybanî, 637 1395-) Jabir b. From Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 
forbade the meat of sacrifices to be eaten after three days. Then he said, "Eat, give charity, make provisions, preserve and eat". 

Muslim, Edahi, 35/29. See also Shaybani (-635 1396-) 
Abdullah b. From Vakid: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered that sacrificial meat not to be preserved for more than 
three days. Abdullah b. Abu Bakr immediately went and asked Abdurrahman's daughter Amre about this situation. Amy: 
That's right. I heard it from Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). 
He was saying: A group of people from Badiye came to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) at the time of Eid. 
The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to them: "You can keep the meat of the sacrifice for only three 
days, give charity any more." After a while, they said to the Prophet that Muslims were making use of their sacrifices, melting their 
fat and cooking with them. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Is there something wrong?” said. The Muslims who came 
said: "You forbade the preservation of the meat of the sacrifice for more than three days." Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): 
I forbade it for this delegation. Now you eat them, give charity and keep them.” he commanded. Muslim, Edahi, 35/28. See also. 
Shaybani, 634 1397-) From Abu Said al-Khudri:  I came back from an expedition, my family brought me meat, I said, "Look, it's not 
sacrificial meat." "Sacrifice meat," they said. Then I asked: Didn't the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say that it would not be preserved 
for more than three days?' said. Yes, but he said we can keep it after you, too.” I immediately left the house and investigated the 
situation. They informed me that the Prophet had said: "I ordered you not to keep the meat of the sacrifice for more than three days. 
Now eat, give charity and use some of it by keeping it. I also ordered you not to use the containers you use to make liquor. You can 
use it now. I forbade the making of must, now you can. I also forbade you to visit graves, now you can visit them. Only do not speak 
ill of those who lie there.” Bukhari, Maghazi, 64/12, Fedâilu'l-Kur'an,  66/13. See also Shaybani, 636. It is okay for those who sacrifice 
to eat the meat of the sacrifice, in addition, some of it can be kept and some (one-third)  is given as charity. 

1398-) Our research and investigations on the Ramadan, Shawwal and Dhul-Hijjah  crescents in H./1978  M. have shown that calculations have been made in most of the Islamic Countries of the Middle East, including our country. However, due to the separate methods applied in the calculation, the results have been different. It is as follows: Some Islamic countries, while making their calculations, have taken the "CONCIOUS MOMENT" of the months of Ramadan, Shawwal and Dhul-Hijjah  shown in the "Almanac" prepared by the Westerners as their basis. declared the day. Some other countries, on the other hand, did not respect the convergence times of these months, but the times when the crescents of these months can be seen from the earth (the confirmation of the crescent), and determined and declared the days following this judgment as the first days of the aforementioned months. I would like to explain a little more about our opinions and determinations on the subject: Our studies on the determination of the Ramadan crescent in 1398 H./1978  M. Year: As it can be seen when the Almanacs prepared by the Westerners are examined, the CONCLUSION MOMENT of the Ramadan crescent is 01:01 Greenwich time on Friday, August 4th. However, at this date, no crescent was seen anywhere in the Islamic world, including Morocco, which is located in the westernmost part of the calculation. On this date, the Moon, for example, set 11 minutes after the Sun in Morocco, 12 minutes in Mecca, and 1 minute in Ankara. However, it is impossible to see the crescent from the ground, unless it stays after the Sun's group, on the horizon in the west, and for example: in regions above the equator for at least 25 minutes, and as long as it moves away from the equator, that is, unless it sets at least this long after the Sun. Because during this period, the Moon is still under the influence of the sun's rays and the part that can be seen from the ground is in the state of a crescent so thin that it cannot be seen. Leaving the Moon's junction point so that it can be seen, the Sun and the Earth's It must form an angle greater than 7 degrees to the line joining its center. According to calculations, the «MOMENT OF CONFUSION» of Dhul-Hijjah  is 20.06 Greenwich Mean Time (23.06 Mecca time) on 31 October. And on the evening of October 31, no crescent was seen anywhere in the world. On this date, the Moon, for example, set 3 minutes before the Sun in Mecca and 1 minute before the Sun in Morocco, and it was certainly not possible to see it. For the first time, on November 1, at 07:39 Greemvich time (10:39 Mecca time), the crescent became visible in the sea region on the line connecting the Japanese islands and New Guinea, and in the evening of the same day in all Islamic Countries. The conclusion to be drawn from astronomical calculations and observations is that if the crescent sighting criterion is adopted, the Eid al-Adha  is Saturday, November 11, 1978. If the condition of RU'YET is not sought and the "MEMMENT OF CONCERN" has entered the crescent, then Friday, November 10, 1978 can be considered as the day of Eid al-Adha.  As it can be understood from the explanations, the main reason for the separation seen in the Islamic World in the announcement of Ramadan and Eid days is not the fact that some of these countries act with calculation, and in others, the crescent is seen with the naked eye. In fact, in most of these countries, the route applied is the calculation route. Although the same method was applied, it is thought that different results were obtained due to the use of different methods. After the explanations made until now, the following questions arise: Is it possible to act on the basis of astronomical calculations made beforehand, in accordance with religious criteria, in the announcement of Ramadan and Eid? Or, even if these calculations have been made, will the necessity of observing the crescent moon and acting accordingly be emphasized? It is well known that there has been an ongoing debate among scholars since the second Hijri century on the answer to the question. In the light of these discussions, your high committee has to reveal its definite preference and attitude on this issue. If it is to be taken into account, since the Moon did not move away from the Sun by making an angle of more than 7 degrees after the "MOMENT OF CONCRETE" and therefore was not seen from the earth, it was fixed with the "ASTRONOMIC ENTRY", that is, the "MOMENT OF CONCENTRATION", as is done in some sister countries, during Ramadan. and can it be declared a holiday? If we can say "YES" to the second question, it's okay. If we say "NO", if the crescent is seen anywhere in the world, will it be possible to declare Ramadan and Eid without the condition that it has been seen in any of the Islamic countries? If we say "NO" to the third question, will we focus on the condition of seeing the crescent moon in any of the Islamic countries? As it is known, in determining prayer times according to Islamic rules, the movements of the Sun (more precisely, the daily movement of the Earth around its axis and its annual movement around the Sun), and the monthly movement of the Moon in determining the times of worship such as fasting, pilgrimage, zakat, fitr alms, sacrifice, and Eid. and annual movements. Accurate determination of the times of the prayers in question depends on the correct determination of the lunar months, especially the first days of the months of Ramadan, Shawwal and Dhul-Hijjah.  As it can be understood from the examination of fiqh works, the majority of Islamic mujtahids and jurists believe that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Start fasting when you see the crescent of Ramadan, which is reported in almost all major hadith books with different words. . If the weather is cloudy and the crescent cannot be seen, complete the 30 days (the months of Sha'ban and Ramadan). It is our greatest desire to reach definite results that will ensure the unity of the Islamic World regarding the differences in the issue of the 'YETI CRESCENT'. here is the subject of «RU'YETÿ CRESCENT» that we will focus on. While entering Ramadan, this issue is discussed all over the Islamic World, Muslims become suspicious and uneasy about the attitude of other countries that act separately from their own countries. They deduced from the hadith-i  sharif, and they argued that the determination of the lunar month-heads  would be by the sighting of the first crescents of these months, and if this was not possible, the month would be completed in 30 days, and it would not be religiously permissible to act on this subject with calculations and the words of the astrologers. On the other hand, although they are few in number, there are certainly jurists who state that it is possible, permissible and even necessary to determine the lunar months (Ramadan, Shawwal and Zilhijce crescents) by calculation. The main evidences of the jurists who argue that RU'YET is essential in the determination of menstruation and that it is not permissible to act with calculations are as follows. 
1398-) Jabir b. From Abdullah: In the year of the Hudaybiyya agreement, together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), we slaughtered a camel on behalf of seven people and a cattle on behalf of seven people. Muslim, Hajj, 15/350. See also Shaybani, 639. 
1399-) From Abu Ayyub al-Ansari:  We used to slaughter a single sheep as a sacrifice. One could cut it both for himself and for his family. But the sacrifice that was sacrificed afterwards became a reason for people to brag to each other and so on. 1400-) From Imam-i  Malik; The most beautiful saying I have heard and liked about camels, cattle and sheep is this: A person can 
sacrifice a camel on behalf of himself and his family. He can also slaughter the cattle and sheep he owns on behalf of himself and his family and make them partners. According to Hanafis, sheep and goats are sacrificed for only one person. Cattle and camels, on the other hand, can be sacrificed jointly from one person to seven people, whether they are household members or strangers. A group of people got together and camel, 
If he buys cattle or sheep and wants to slaughter one of them as nushk (a sacrifice for pilgrimage) or as a sacrifice, it is makruh if the share 
of these sacrifices is determined and it is determined that he will receive meat as much as this amount. Because, according to the hadith we 
heard: There is no partnership in the nasik (relapse) victim, only those who belong to a family can be partners. Shaybani, 638. 1401-) From 
Ibn Shihab: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not slaughter anything other than a camel (or a cow) neither for himself nor for his family. Malik 
says: "Is it a camel or a cattle?" I don't know what you said. 

1402-) Abdullah b. From Ömer: The days of sacrifice are the first, second and third days of the feast. 1403-) From Imam-i  
Malik: Ali b. There is also a report in this sense from Ebî Talib. 
1404-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar would not sacrifice for the child in his mother's womb. 1405-) From 
Imam-i  Malik: Sacrifice is not obligatory, it is sunnah. Despite this, you welcome the able-bodied.  According to the Hanafi sect, it is 
obligatory to sacrifice an animal for those who fulfill its conditions. For the hadith, see also Shaybani, 632. 

1406-) Hisham b. Urwa narrates from his father: He said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): "O Messenger of Allah! 
Some of the Bedouins bring meat, but we don't know if they used the basmala when they were slaughtering it." they said. The 
Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) said: "Call the name of Allah, then eat them." he commanded. 
There was no objection to Malik in the formation of Mürsel. From Malik: This was in the early years of Islam. Shaybani, 657. 
1407-) Abdullah b. Ayyas b. Abi Rabia al-Mahzumi  ordered his slave to slaughter an animal. When the slave wanted to slaughter the 
animal: “Bismillah! he said. Slave: According to serial etiquette, it was not yet well known how the animal was to be slaughtered. 
Because of heedlessness and forgetfulness, quoting the basmala could be forgotten. Later, the verdict became known to everyone. 
Said." said. He again: Either he did not believe the slave's word or he wanted to hear it with his own ears. Say Bismillah, damn it!» said. 
The slave repeated: "I said". Thereupon, Abdullah b. 
The drunkard took an oath: "By God, I will never eat that meat." 
1408-) Ata b. From Yesa: A man from the sons of Haris, from the Ansar, was grazing his milk-camel  in Uhud. The animal suddenly fell, it 
was about to die. The owner immediately cut this animal down with a sharp-edged  tree. Later, the situation was reported to the Messenger 
of Allah (pbuh). He said: There is no problem, eat the meat.' he commanded. Ömer says: "According to all narrators, he is a mursal." For 
the hadith, see Shaybani, 640. 
1409-) Muaz b. From Sa'd (or Sa'd b. Muaz): Ka'b b. Malik's concubine was grazing her sheep on Mount Sel'. 
One of the sheep got sick, the concubine immediately caught up and cut her with a stone. Afterwards, they asked the Prophet 
about the situation: There is no harm in it, eat its meat.» he commanded. Bukhari, ez-Zebâih  wa's-Sayd,  72/19. See also Shaybani, 641. 

1410-) Sevr b. From Zayd ed-Dili:  Abdullah b. Abbas was asked whether the slaughter of the Christian Arabs could be eaten. "There's 
nothing wrong with that!" saying, "Whoever among you is their friend, he is one of them." Al-Maida:  He recited the 51st verse. 

1411-) Abdullah b. From Abbas: You can eat the meat of an animal whose neck veins have been cut. 
1412-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: If you have succeeded in slaughtering an animal with the tool you had to use, it means that there is no 
problem. Shaybani, 642. 
1413-) Akil b. I asked Abu Murra, the freed man of Abu Talib: What will happen if there is movement in the body of a sheep whose 
slaughter has been completed? He said I could eat it. Zayd b. 
I asked the constant. “Of course, the organs of the deceased tremble after a while. Do not eat it while you are in this state!” said. 

1414-) Imam-i  Malik was asked about the condition of the animal, which fell from a height and was injured and whose owner immediately ran 
and slaughtered it, but only shed blood and did not move. eat it.» ÿeybanî, 656 1415-) Abdullah b. From Omar: When the camel is sacrificed, 
if the organs of the baby in its belly have formed and its hair has grown, the animal is slaughtered together with the one in its belly. In other 
words, it is enough to cut off the mother, and the offspring that comes out of its belly is eaten by cutting its mother. However, according to the 
Hanafi sect, the offspring must also be slaughtered. Shaybani, 651. 1416-) ÿaid b. From Müseyyeb: The slaughter of the baby in the womb of 
a slaughtered animal is done with its mother. However, if the offspring's organs are formed and its feathers are out, it is cut separately. 
Shaybani, 652. 

1417-) Nafi tells: I was in Cüruf, I threw stones at two birds, I shot them both. Someone had died, so Abdullah b. Omar threw it away. The 
other was Abdullah b. Umar took him to slaughter with a cut, and he died before he could cut it, thereupon Abdullah b. Omer threw it away 
too. Shaybani, 655. 1418-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Kasÿm b. Mohammed did not like to shoot prey with sticks and 
pellets. 1419-) From Imam-i  Malik; According to the narrations that came to me, Said b. Musayyeb did not like to be shot or killed in a 
similar way, like game animals. 

1420-) From Imam-i  Malik: If a stick hits a game animal and kills it, there is no harm in eating it in my opinion. Because in the Quran: “O you who believe! And Allah will test you with the game you catch with your hands and arrows.” Maida, 5/94. he commands. This means that human beings can shoot and kill anything they can get with their hands, arrows and weapons. Because they are prey. It is commanded so in the verse of the Holy Quran. 1421-) Imam-i  Malik narrates that some of the scholars said: If a man shoots a prey and someone else helps him, something like water or an untrained dog, that prey cannot be eaten. It is eaten on one condition, however, that the person shooting the animal arrow must hit and kill it, or that the arrow reaches the place where the prey was killed, and that no one should have any doubt that the arrow killed the animal and that the animal did not survive after that. With its arrival at the hunt, the animal should no longer be able to live. 1422-) From Imam-i  Malik: If you find that you lost sight of it after being destroyed by your blow, with a trace of your dog and a wound from an arrow, and if a night has not passed, there is no harm in eating the meat of this animal. If it's night before you can catch it after knocking it down and losing sight of it, it won't be eaten. 
1423-) Abdullah b. Omar, regarding the trained dog's hunt: "Eat whatever it catches for you, dead or not!" he would say. Shaybani, 658. 1424-) Abdullah b. From Ömer: Take the food that the trained animal brought, whether or not it ate. According to Hanafis, if the game animal eats its prey, its meat cannot be eaten. 1425-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to the narration that came to me, Sa'd b. What to do if the dog trained by Ebi Vakkas kills the prey? When asked, Sa'd replied: If there is even a piece of meat left, eat it. 1426-) Imam-i  Malik reports that he heard some scholars say: If falcons, eagles, falcons and other similar animals are raised like trained dogs, it is okay to eat the game meat they kill. However, the basmala should be written while these animals are sent to hunt. 1427-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the hunter saves the prey from the claws of nature or the mouth of a dog and waits until it dies, it is not lawful to eat it. This is the best judgment I have heard.' Because the hunter is born before the prey dies. In this case, he should have cut the prey. 
1428-) Again, Imam-i  Malik says: It is not right not to slaughter a game animal that can be slaughtered while it is in the hawk's paw or in the dog's mouth, and not to wait until the falcon or dog kills it. It is not halal to eat the meat of an animal that died in this way. 1429-) From Imam-i  Malik: The situation of a person who throws a game animal and reaches it while it is still alive, but kills it by being lax in slaughtering it, is the same. The meat of the animal that died in this way is also inedible. 1430-) From Imam-i  Malik: We, the people of Madinah, are in agreement on the following: If a Muslim sends a firefighter's trained dog to a hunting animal, even if the dog kills that animal, there is no harm in eating that prey, since the dog has been trained. Although a Muslim does not slaughter that animal. It's like this: a Muslim takes a firefighter's knife, or takes his bow, or takes his arrow and goes hunting with it. This hunt is halal, there is no harm in eating it. If a (fire­worshipping) person sends a Muslim's trained dog to a hunting animal, and the animal catches that prey, that prey will not be eaten. However, if the prey animal is caught and slaughtered, it is eaten. It is similar to this: A fireman takes a Muslim's bow and arrow, hunts with them, takes the Muslim's knife and slaughters the animal with it. In this case, it is not halal to eat this game meat. 
1431-) Nafi' narrates: Abdurrahman b. Ebi Hüreyre, Abdullah b. He asked Omar a question about what the sea washed ashore. Abdullah b. Omar also forbade eating sea animals washed ashore. then Abdullah b. Umar went and had the mushafi brought: "Sea hunting and the food there are made lawful for you." He recited the 96th verse of al-Maida. Thereupon, he immediately sent me to Abdurrahman b. He sent it to Abu Huraira. I informed him that it was okay for him to eat the animals he asked. According to the Hanafi Sect, the fish that the sea dries onto the land and the water recedes are eaten. For the hadith, see ÿeybanî, 649 1432-) Ömer b. Sa'd al-Cari,  the freedman of Khattab, narrates: Abdullah b. To Omar: Is it okay to eat fish that kill each other or die from cold?' I asked. Sa'd: It's okay.' said. Later, Abdullah b. I asked Ace and he said the same thing. The Hanafi sect also holds this view. For the hadith, see Shaybani, 650. 
1433-) Abu Huraira and Zayd b. They did not see any harm in eating the animals thrown out by the steady sea. 
1434-) Abu Salama b. From Abdurrahman: A group of people came from some places close to Medina, and Marwan b. They asked the referee whether the animals washed ashore by the sea would be eaten. He replied that there is no harm in eating. Also, he went to Zayd b. He told them to ask Sabit and Abu Huraira as well. After they went and asked both of them, he asked them to let him know what they had said. They also went and asked both of them: There is nothing wrong with eating, they answered. They immediately came and reported the situation to Marvan. Marwan said: I told you so. 1435-) From Imam-i  Malik: There is no harm in eating the fish caught by a magi. Because the Messenger of Allah 
(pbuh) said about the sea: Its water is clean and its dead is halal. As a musnad, Taharet is a hadith in 2/12. 
1436-) Imam-i  Malik says: When it is eaten dead, it will not harm the hunter. 1438-) Abu Huraira reports that the Prophet said: "Predators with dog teeth cannot be eaten." Imam-i  Malik says: The situation is the same among us Medinans. Muslim, es-Sayd  ve'z-Zebâih,  34/15; Shafii, Risale, no: 562. See also. The 644th sect of Shaybani is also of this opinion. 1439-) From Imam-i  Malik: The best judgment I have heard about horses, mules and donkeys is that their meat cannot be eaten. Because the Quran says: "Horse, mule and donkey are for riding and ornaments" an-Nahl:  8. In another verse, it is said: "Some of them are for you to ride and some for you to eat" al-Ghafir,  79. The following verse is also stated in the following verse: “... that they may mention His name on the animals that Allah has given them as sustenance. (...) Eat from them and feed the poor as well as those who want it.» Hajj, 22/34 and 36. From Malik: Allah has mentioned the verse in the Qur'an for the purpose of riding a horse, mule and donkey. He also mentioned En'am (camel, cattle, etc.) to ride and eat. Malik says: Kani (who has an opinion) in the verse means poor. 1440-) Abdullah b. From Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came across a dead sheep. He gave the sheep to the freedman of his wife Maymune. To those there: Don't you make use of his skin?" she asked. Those there: O Messenger of Allah! That unclean is dead,” they said. Thereupon, the Prophet said: Only meat cannot be eaten. Bukhari, Zakat, 24/61; Muslim, Hayd, 3/101. 1441-) Abdullah b. Abbas narrated that the Prophet said: "When the skin of an animal is tanned, it becomes clean." Muslim, Hayd, 3/105. 1442-) From Hadrat Aisha: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered that the skin of an animal that has died as unclean be used by tanning it. Abu Dawud, Libas, 31/38; Tirmidhi, Libas, 22/7; Nesai, el-Fera'  ve'l Atîre, 41/6; Ibn Majah, Libas, 32/25. 1443-) From Imam-i  Malik: The best thing to hear about a person who has to eat the meat of dead animals is that he can eat until he is full and get some food. If he doesn't need it, he can throw it away. 1444-) Imam-i Malik was asked the following question: If a person who has to eat the meat of dead animals sees fruits, agricultural products and sheep in that area, can he or she not eat the dead animal? 
Malik gave the following answer: The owners of the fruit, agricultural products and sheep he encounters in his place believe that he is in a difficult situation. However, he cannot take them with him. And that's better than eating dead animal meat, I think. If he is worried that they will not believe him and that his hand will be cut off by being treated as a thief, then I think it is better for him to eat the meat of dead animals. Because in this case, it is permissible for him to eat the meat of dead animals. However, my fear is that those who are not obliged to eat the meat of dead animals will take the goods of the people with this permission and make it a habit to pluck agricultural products and fruits. From Malik: This is the best judgment I have heard on this subject. 
1445-) Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked what the aqiq was, and he said, “I do not like this ukuk.” It was as if he didn't like the name. Then he said: Whoever has a child, if he wants, let him sacrifice on his behalf!' Ibn Abdilber says: "I do not know the meaning of this hadith. It was narrated from the Messenger of Allah only in this way." Amr b. Shuayb -his father-is also transmitted through his grandfather: Davud, Edahi, 16/21; Nesai, Akika, 40/1. 1446-) Cafer b. Muhammad narrates from his father: Fatima, the daughter of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), weighed the hair of Hasan and Husayn, Zeynep and Umm Kulthum, and gave a gift of silver for their weight. 1447-) Muhammed b. Ali b. From Husayn: Fatima, the daughter of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), weighed Hasan and Husayn's hair, and gave their weight in silver as charity. ÿeybanî, 661 1448-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar would give aqiqa meat to anyone who asked for a family member. He slaughtered a sheep separately for each boy and girl. Shaybani, 662. 1449-) Muhammed b. Abraham b. From Haris at-Taymi:  I heard from my father that it is recommended to cut aqiqa even if it is a sparrow. 1450-) From Imam-i  Malik: According to what I heard, Ali b. Abu Talib's sons, Hasan and Husayn, were sacrificed for Akika. 
1451-) Hisham b. In Urve: My father, Urve b. Zubayr would slaughter a sheep separately for boys and girls as aqiqa. Shaybani, 660. 1452-) From Imam-i  Malik: The alliance among us Madinans regarding Akika is as follows: the person who is going to sacrifice an Akika slaughters a sheep separately for each male and female. Akika is not obligatory, it is mustahab. People have been doing it for a long time. Since the animal to which Akika is made is like hedy and sacrifice, this animal should not be weak, blind, disabled or sick. Its meat is not sold, its skin is not sold, its bones are broken. During the Age of Ignorance, the bones of the aqiqa victims were completely separated from their meat, and these bones were never broken. The owner can eat, and he can give charity from it. However, nothing can be applied to the child from the blood of the animal. Abu Davud, Edahi, 16/21; Nesai, Akika, 40/4. 1453-) Imam-i  Malik says: The ruling on certain rights in the inheritance practiced by the scholars whom we have been unanimous on and whom I grew up with in our country is as follows: And when the father dies, sons and daughters 
If they have left, the man is given a share equal to the share of the two girls. Daughters receive two-thirds  of the estate if there are two or more (and no brothers). If the girl is only one child, she gets half of the estate. If there is a boy among the children who have a certain share in the inheritance with them, their shares are given first. After this transaction, the remaining property is divided among the children in proportion to their shares. If there are no children, the children of the boys are in their place. The sons of his son are like the sons of the deceased, and the daughters are like the daughters of the deceased. There is no difference (in terms of getting rights from the inheritance) between them. They inherit just like them and deprive someone else of inheritance. Even if there are sons among his children while there are sons among his children, none of his son's children can receive a right from the inheritance. If the deceased has no sons, and if the daughters are two or more, the daughters of his son cannot be heirs together with these daughters. However, if there is a boy among his son's daughters, then they become heirs. This boy, whose distance from the dead to the girls is the same, or further from the dead to the girls, ensures that if there is any property left, the daughters at his level and higher will inherit this increased property. They divide this increased property between them by giving the share of two girls to the man. If there is no surplus property, the son's children will not receive any property. If he has no children other than just one daughter, that girl gets half of the estate. In this case, the daughters of one or more sons, who are at the same distance from the dead, receive one sixth of the estate. If the son has a son with his daughters and their distance from the dead is the same, the son does not have certain (one sixth) shares. If the owners of certain shares have any remaining property after they have bought their shares, they divide this property with the man and the girls at or above that man's level, by giving the man the shares of two girls. Daughters of more distant degrees are not entitled to inheritance. If nothing is left of the estate, the others cannot get anything. The following command in the book of Almighty Allah forms the basis of this decree; Allah commands you as follows: A man is given the share of two girls. If the girls are more than two, they get two-thirds  of the estate. If it's odd, half takes it." Nisa, 13. 1454-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a dead woman has no children by her husband or someone else, or if her son has no children, half of her estate belongs to her husband. If the boy or girl or her son has left a child, her husband gets a quarter of her estate. These provisions are fulfilled after his wills are fulfilled and his debts are paid. If a husband has no children or a son has no children, his wife receives a quarter of his terike. If the husband or son has sons or daughters, the wife gets one-eighth  of the estate. These rights are given to his wife after her husband's wills are fulfilled and her debts are paid. Because Almighty Allah has said in his book: If you do not have children, half of what you leave behind is yours. These are after the bequests they made are fulfilled and their debts are paid. If you do not have children, a quarter of what you leave belongs to your wives. If you have children, they get one-eighth  of the estate. And this is after the will you have made has been fulfilled and the debts paid.” Nisa, 11. 1455-) Imam-i  Malik says: The verdict of the scholars that we are allied with on this issue and that I have trained in our town (in Madinah) is as follows: If the son or daughter has sons or sons have sons, the father's right in the estate is one sixth. is appreciated. If there is surplus property, the property that has increased by one sixth will also belong to your father. If the surplus property is not one-sixth  or more, the father is given one-sixth  as a certain right. daughter or son, boy or girl, the children of the child or son, or if the parents left one or two or more brothers or sisters, their mother is given one sixth of these dead children. If the mother does not leave her own or her son's children, two or more siblings, except for the following two cases, the mother receives one-third  of the estate: 1456-) Imam-i  Malik says: cannot be inherited with their children. The father and the father of the father cannot be heirs with the grandfather. In other cases, 
they become heirs. One sixth share is given to one main sibling (as an inheritance) whether male or female. If two parents have a sibling, they each get one sixth. If they are more than two, they become partners in one-third  of the estate. They divide it equally among themselves, without giving the man the share of two girls. Almighty Allah has said: If the inheritor is male or female, has no children or fathers, and he has a brother or sister, it will be one sixth for each. If they are more than two, they become partners in one third without being harmed…” Nisa, there is no difference between a boy and a girl in 12 matters, they get the same share. 1457-) Imam-i  Malik says: The unanimous decision on this issue is as follows: Parents and brothers cannot inherit any shares with the sons of the deceased and his son, and the father adjacent to the deceased. If the deceased does not have a grandfather (his father's father) alive, the wealth increased by the daughters and the daughters of his son is inherited by the brothers as asaba. Those who own certain shares are given rights first. After this transaction, if there is any surplus property, this property becomes your parents and brothers. They divide it among themselves in accordance with the Book of Allah. 
If there are sisters together with the brothers, the man is given a share equal to the share of two sisters. If there is no property left after certain owners have bought their shares, no property is given to siblings. Malik says; If the deceased's father, his father's father (grandfather), a boy or a girl, and his son do not have children, half of the estate is given to one of the parents, a sister, if she is alone. If the parents are one sister, two or more, 

they are given two-thirds.  If they have one brother together with them, no one can get a certain share, be it one or many. Shares are given to those who have certain shares among those who participate in the inheritance with them. If the property increases after this transaction, this property is divided among the parents and siblings, as the share of two daughters for the male. There is only one exception here. In this case, they are not given a share of inheritance at all, and they become a shareholder of one-third  of the shares they receive from a main sibling. The depiction of this issue is as follows: the woman died and left behind her husband, mother, a mother and a brother, and a brother and sister. Half of the estate belongs to her husband, one-sixth  to her mother, and one-third  to one of her main siblings. Since the property will not increase after this transaction, parents and siblings become partners in these one-third  shares of the parents. They divide this property between them by giving the share of two girls to the man. Because all of them are a mother sibling of the dead. They inherited only through their mothers. Almighty Allah states in his book: If a man or woman, who has no children or fathers, and he has a brother or sister, it will be one sixth for each of them. If they are more than two, they will be partners in one-third  without being harmed…” Nisa, 12. Because of this verse, they become partners in one-third.  Because all of them are a mother sibling of the dead. 1458-) Imam-i  Malik says: The verdict on which we are allied on this issue is as follows: If there are no parents and siblings, their share in the inheritance is like the inheritance of a parent 
and there is no difference between them. Men are like men, women are like women. However, one-third  of a mother's brother's share, in which a parent and a brother are in common, cannot be a shareholder with them. Because the father is a brother, they are not the children of the mother who brought them together. Malik says: If a parent and a brother are present together, if there is a male among the parents, none of the paternal siblings can inherit. If the parents have one or more children and there is no partner, a half share of the estate is given to one of the parents and a sister. Father and sisters are given a sixth share. This process is for completing two-thirds.  If a father is found with a brother along with a sibling, they cannot own certain shares. Their rights are given first, starting with those who own certain shares. After this transaction, if there is any surplus property, the male is divided between two sisters, one of the father's shares. If there is no property left, no rights will be given to them. If the father is one sister, two or more, two-thirds  of the estate is given to them. Along with these, father and sister cannot be heirs. However, if there is a paternal brother with them, then they are heirs. In this case, the inheritance starts before certain right holders with whom they are partners and their shares are given. After this process, if the property increases, the male and the two daughters share this property, one of the brothers and sisters divide it between them. If there is no property left, they will not receive any rights. If one child is present with one parent and one child, if the father is with one child, one-sixth  is given, and if they are two or more, the male is given one-third,  one female share. The boy here is like a girl. Therefore, their shares are equal. 
1459-) Yahya b. According to what is reported to Said, Abu Sufyan's son Muaviye, Zayd b. He wrote a letter to Sabit and asked about your grandfather's share in the inheritance. Zayd b. And Sabit wrote back to him as follows: In the letter you wrote, you are asking me about your grandfather's inheritance. Allah knows best. This issue is an issue that has not been adjudicated until the Caliphs. I was with two caliphs before you. If they were found with one brother, they gave half of the inheritance to the grandfather, and if he was found with two brothers, they gave one-third.  If the brothers were more, they did not reduce the grandfather's one-third  share.» 1460-) It was reported from Kabisa, son of Zueyb: b. al-Khattab  would give the grandfather the share that Muslims give today. The Hanafi School also takes this view. for see. ÿeybanî, 722. (The grandfather generally gets shares like the father. But when the father is alive, his share decreases.) 1461-) Süleyman b. Yesar says: b. al-Khattab,  Osman b. Affan and Zayd b. Fixed, they would give a third share to the grandfather who was found with the brothers of the deceased. 1462-) Imam-i  Malik says: The verdict of the scholars that we are allied with on this issue and that I trained in our town (in Madinah) is as follows: A grandfather (father's father) cannot inherit from a father adjacent to the deceased. When the deceased is found with his sons, his son's son... a sixth share is given to the grandfather. If the deceased does not have a surviving mother or father after him, he also receives one sixth share in these cases. First, certain shareholders with whom they are partners in the inheritance are given their rights. If the surplus property is one sixth or more, one sixth share is given to the grandfather. 
1463-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person who has a certain share in a grandfather and a parent and siblings participates in the inheritance, the rights are given to those who have certain shares from the joint heirs first. After these works, if there is anything left for the grandfather and brothers, it is checked. It is given to the grandfather, whichever is in favor of the grandfather, by giving one-third  of the remaining property to the grandfather and brothers, or giving the same property to the grandfather by accepting the grandfather as one of the brothers, or giving one-sixth  of the entire estate to the grandfather. After that, the remaining property is divided between the parents and siblings, giving the man the share of the two daughters. There is a situation that is not divided in this way, which is this: the woman dies and after her she has a husband, mother, parents, sister and grandfather. Her husband is half of the estate, her mother is one-third,  her grandfather is one-sixth,  and her mother is one-sixth. 
father gets a sister half share. Then, one-sixth  of the grandfather's share and one-sixth  part of the estate that the sister received are added up and divided into three. According to the principle of giving the man two daughters' shares, two-thirds  of this goes to your grandfather and one-third  to your sister. 1464-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a father's brothers do not inherit together with their grandfather, their inheritance is like the inheritance of their parents, and there is no difference between them. Men are like men, women are like women. If a paternal sibling and a paternal sibling are together, a paternal sibling ensures that the grandfather receives shares equally with the paternal siblings and prevents the grandfather from inheriting more of their shares. There is no effect that a maternal sibling and grandparents inherit equally. Because, if only one of the main siblings shares the inheritance with the grandfather, they cannot inherit with the grandfather. All the property belongs to your grandfather. After the share is given, the remaining property does not belong to one of your brothers, but to one of your parents. A paternal siblings cannot inherit any shares with a parental sibling. However, if a parent and a sibling are only a woman, this woman ensures that the grandfather receives as many shares as the shares of a paternal sibling. If there is an increase in property for a woman and a father's brother, this property is given to that woman until she completes the half share, which is a certain share of the entire estate, and not to one of her father's siblings. If this property is more than half of the estate, this surplus is divided among the brothers and sisters on the basis of giving the share of two daughters to the man. If more than half of the estate is not left over, a paternal siblings cannot receive any rights. 
1465-) Kabisa son of Zueyb (radiyallahu anh) says: Abu He came to Bekir as-Siddiq  (radiyallahu anh). Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) answered him as follows: There is no decree about you in Allah's book. I do not know if there is anything in the Sunnah of the Messenger of Allah. You go home. Let me ask the Muslims about this issue, and then I will answer you.” When Bekir asked the Muslims, Mugîre b. Shu'ba said to her: I was with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and he gave his grandmother one-sixth."  Bekir: Were there others?” When Muhammad b. Maslama al-Ansari  got up and gave a speech similar to Mughira's. Thereupon, Abu Bakr es Siddik applied this to his grandmother. Then he came to Hazrat Umar to inquire about the inheritance of the other grandmother (father's mother). Thereupon, Umar (radiyallahu anh) said to him: There is no decree about you in the book of Allah. You do not have a problem with the provisions that have been given so far. As for me, I am not going to add anything from myself to the inheritance. But this inheritance must be that one-sixth  given to the mother of the mother. When you both inherit together, you divide this one-sixth  share. Whichever of you inherits alone, takes all of this one-sixth.  Abu Dawud, Faraid, 18/5; Tirmidhi, Faraid, 27/10; Ibn Mace, Faraid, 23/4. See also Shaybani, 723. The Hanafi Sect is also based on this view. 
1466-) Qasim, son of Muhammad, says: When Abu Bakr as-Siddika  applied for the inheritance of his grandmother, Abu When Bekir wanted to give a sixth share to your mother's mother, a person from the Ansar said to him: Be careful. If the grandmother you wanted to deprive of inheritance had died, if the inheritor had survived, the grandmother would have inherited it.” Upon this word, Hazrat Abu Bakr divided one sixth of the shares between two grandmothers. 
1467-) Abdirabbihi, son of Said, says: Bakr b. Abdurrahman would only give shares from the inheritance to two grandmothers 
(mother's mother and father's mother). 1468-) Imam-i  Malik says: Our agreed practice is as follows: When the grandmother (mother's 
mother) is present with her mother, she cannot inherit the right. Except for this situation, he inherits and is given one sixth. The grandmother, who is the mother of the father, cannot inherit from the mother and father. Apart from this situation, this grandmother is given one sixth share. If two grandmothers (mother, mother, father and mother) are together and the deceased does not have any other mother and father, then Imam Malik says: I have heard that if the mother and mother are closer to the dead from these two grandmothers, she gets one sixth. Father and mother cannot benefit from this right. Among the grandmothers, if the father is closer to the mother, or if they are at the same level of proximity to the dead, they divide one-sixth  between them by half. 1469-) Imam-i  Malik says: Except for two grandmothers (mother, mother and father, mother), other grandmothers cannot inherit. For, according to what has been reported to me, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made his grandmother (grandmother) his heir. Then Abu Bakr investigated the issue. When it became clear that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made her his heir, he immediately applied it to the grandmother. Then the other grandmother (father and mother) Umar b. When he came to al-Khattab  and asked for an inheritance, Umar said to him: I cannot add anything to the inheritance. The two of you together divide one-sixth  between you. Whichever of you is left alone and does not have another grandmother to share in her inheritance, one-sixth  will be hers.” 1470-) Imam-i  Malik continued as follows: From the beginning of Islam until today, I do not remember anyone whose grandmothers had 
inherited from these two grandmothers. 
1471-) Zayd b. The map says: b. Al-Khattab  asked Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) about the inheritance of kalala (the person who died without an heir). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied, "The last verse of the chapter of Nisa, which was sent down in the summer, is sufficient for you." Muslim, Faraid, 23/9. 
1472-) Imam-i  Malik says: The verdict of the scholars that we are allied with on this issue and that I trained in our town (in Madinah) is as follows: A person who has no inherited children and no father is called a "kelale". It is divided into two parts: it is the kalala where siblings can inherit only when they do not have a father and a child, and cannot inherit in other cases. Almighty Allah mentions this word in the verse that He sent down at the beginning of the chapter of Nisa as follows: If the inheritor is a man or woman, a childless person and his brother or sister is found, each of them becomes one-sixth;  if they are more than two, they become partners in one-third. ..»  Nisa is the 12th anger that Almighty Allah said in the last verse of the chapter of Nisa: They ask for a fatwa, say: Allah gives you the fatwa about the kalala. If a person who does not have children but has a sister dies, half of the estate belongs to his sister. If his sister has no children, he himself will inherit her completely. If the Kez brothers are two, they own two-thirds  of the estate. If they are mixed brothers and sisters, the male is given a share equal to two female shares. Allah is explaining to you in case you stray from the right path. God knows all things well.” Nisa, 176. Malik says: Brothers become asabe in the Kalale in question here. When the child is not found, the siblings inherit the word with the grandfather. Dede inherits together with his brothers. Because inheritance is the right of the grandfather rather than the brothers. Because while the grandfather inherits one sixth share with the sons of the deceased, siblings cannot inherit any share. How can a grandfather who buys a sixth share with his son not be like one of the brothers? Why can't a mother get a third with siblings, while parents get a third with siblings, why can't grandfather get a third with them? Because the grandfather, the mother, inherits a siblings and their position prevents them from inheriting. For this reason, a grandfather has more right to take what a mother has taken. Because the mother is a brothers, they are inherited because of the grandfather. If this third of them had not been bought by the grandfather, they would have taken a mother. For this reason, the grandfather, the father alone, took the property that could not be returned to the brothers. However, a maternal sibling has more rights to receive this third than a paternal sibling. A grandfather has more right to receive the same right than a mother sibling. 1473-) Ibn Mirsâ (radiy-Allâhu  anh) says: Umar b. I was sitting next to al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh). When he performed the noon prayer, he said: O Yerfa! Bring this text.” Hazrat Umar said this for the article he still wrote about: We were asking questions about the inheritance of the aunt and we wanted to learn. When Yerfa brought the writing to Hazrat Umar, he asked for a jug (or a glass) containing water and wiped this writing with this water, then said: If God had pleased you to be the heir, he would have stated that you were the heir. Yes, if Allah had been pleased with you as an heir, he would certainly have indicated that you were the heir.” 
1474-) Abu Bakr b. Hazm says: Umar b. al-Khattab:  His condition is astonishing. For, although there is no heir, he is inherited.” he would say. Shaybani, 724. 1475-) Imam-i  Malik says: The verdict of the scholars, who are allied on this issue and whom I trained in our town (in Madinah), are as follows: a father from a brother, a father from a brother; from the sons of a father, a brother, and a parent, a brother; from the sons of a father and a brother, from the sons of a father, a brother; father from a brother's sons, parents from a brother's son, father from a brother's son's sons, from a parent's uncle (father's brother); parents from an uncle, father from an uncle; from the sons of an uncle father, and an uncle from parents; and the sons of a paternal uncle have priority to inherit from a paternal uncle (father's father's brother). 1476-) Imam-i  Malik says: The rights of all asaba in inheritance that you will be asked are as follows: Evaluate the connection between those who are likely to have priority over their asaba. If one of the Asaba binds the deceased to 
the father and there is no other, give the inheritance to the person closest to the father. Do not give to those who are more distant to fathers. If all the nomads bind the deceased to a father, and this father gathers them all, look at the ones closest in lineage. If the nearest is a son of a nervous father, give the inheritance to him. 
Do not give it to them, even if they are a son from afar. If you find the Asabas equal in kinship and related to one of the fathers, so that they are all descended from the deceased, and if they are all sons of one father or children of one parent, the inheritance is divided equally among them. If the father of some of them is a parental brother of the deceased's father, and the others are only a paternal sibling of the deceased's father, the inheritance does not belong to the sons of a paternal brother of the deceased, but to the sons of one of his parents. Allah, the Exalted, says: They are closer to each other than the Book of Allah. Allah is all-knowing.”  1477-) Imam-i  Malik says: Dede (father's father) has priority in inheriting from a parent, a brother's sons, and a parent's uncle (father's brother). The son of a paternal brother has priority in taking custody of freed slaves. 1478-) Imam-i  Malik says: The verdict of the scholars that we are 
allied with on this issue and that I have trained in our town (in Madinah) are as follows: a brother's son, grandfather (mother's father), mother an uncle (father's brother), uncle, Grandma (mother of the mother), mother, father, daughter of a brother, aunt, and kinship in terms of birth cannot receive a share from the inheritance. Malik says: A woman whose lineage is the most distant from those mentioned in this section cannot share any inheritance with her close relatives in terms of birth. Other than the women whose names have been mentioned 
No woman can inherit. Almighty Allah has mentioned the names of the following women in his book: their inheritance to their mothers, their inheritance to their daughters from their fathers, the inheritance to the wife from their husbands, the inheritance of parents and sisters, the inheritance of a father and sisters, and the inheritance of a mother and sister. The grandmother inherited her with the hadith of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). inherits those whom he freed himself. For Allah Almighty has said: Your brothers and your freedmen. Ahzab, 33/5. 1479-) Usama b. Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cannot inherit an unbeliever.” Muslim, Faraid, 3/1. See also Shaybani, 
728. 
1480-) Ali b. Abi Talib reported to Ibn Shihab: Only Reason and Talib inherited Talib. I did not inherit. Ali (radiyallahu 
anh) said: Because of this, we did not get our share in the house called Shi'b.» Shaybani, 729. 
1481-) Muhammed b. al-Eÿ'as,  Süleyman b. He narrated to Yesar: My (or Christian) aunt died. I also said this to Umar b. 
I told al-Khattab,  "Who will inherit him?" Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) replied, “Those from his own religion will inherit him.” 
Osman b. When I came to Affan and asked him about the issue, he answered me as follows: Umar b. Do you think I forgot 
what Khattab told you? Those of his own religion will inherit it.” 1482-) ÿsmail b. Abi Hakam says: b. A Christian who was 

freed by Abdulaziz died. Umar b. Abdulaziz ordered me to put my property in the treasury. 

1483-) Said b. Musayyeb says: b. Al-Khattab  was reluctant to inherit a non-Arab  person, and he would only inherit those born in an Arab country. 1484-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a woman comes from an enemy country and gives birth to a child in 
Arab lands, she will have a child, and when the woman dies, her child will inherit her, and when the child dies, she will inherit her child. 1485-) Imam-i  Malik says: The verdict of the scholars, who we are allied with on this issue and whom I reached in your town (in Madinah), applied is as follows: An unbeliever cannot inherit through ties of kinship, freedom and kinship, and he cannot deprive anyone of his inheritance. Likewise, anyone who is not an heir when he is alone cannot deprive another person of inheritance. 
1486-) Rabîa b. According to Abu Abdirrahman's narration from most of the scholars, those killed in the battles of Jamel, Sÿffin and Harre could not inherit each other. Then there was the Kudayd war, and they could not inherit each other. However, succession is valid between those who are known to have died before their relatives. 1487-) Imam-i  Malik says: This is the undisputed verdict that is certain by all the scholars of our town (Madinah): This is the ruling applied to everyone who dies by drowning or being killed or other forms of death and is the heir of one another. When it is not known which one died first, one cannot inherit the other. Their inheritance goes to other heirs. The surviving heirs may inherit each of them. 1488-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not right for a person whose death is unknown to be inherited from another person. If it is confirmed by knowledge and witnesses that whoever died first, they will inherit each other. Because when a slave and his master -whose master's father has freed him-die, his master's children say, "Our father is his heir." Only the closest surviving relatives inherit it. 1489-) Imam-i  Malik says: The following issue is similar to this: the father, one and two brothers died. One has children, the other has no children. Both have a paternal brother. It is not known which of them died first. The inheritance of a childless sibling becomes a father's sibling. The children of a parent and a sibling have no right to inheritance. 1490-) Imam-i  Malik says: Another issue similar to the above is this: and his brother's son or his brother's daughter and uncle died, and it is not known which one died first. In this case, the uncle tells the brother's daughter; brother's son cannot inherit the aunt. 1491-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: b. Zübeyr, whose parents were divorced by interview Mülaane; It is the divorce of the husband from his wife at the end of the lawsuit filed by the husband claiming that the child that his wife became pregnant or gave birth to is from someone else's ancestry. He used to say about the inheritance of children and children born from adultery: If the children's mothers were freed concubines when they died, their mother and mother and siblings inherit the rights determined in the book of Almighty Allah. The remaining property is inherited by their master, who freed his mother. If their mother is free, their mother will receive their rights, and a maternal sibling will receive their rights. The rest belongs to the Muslims (treasure). 1492-) Imam-i  Malik says-.Suleyman b. A similar narration was made from Yesar, and the practices of the scholars who were brought up in our town (in Madinah) were like this. 
1493-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “None of you would propose to a woman whose (Muslim) brother proposed marriage.” Bukhari, Nikah, 67/45; Shafii, Risale, no: 847; Shaybani ordered 528. If he doesn't propose, it means he doesn't propose. The expression of the Messenger of Allah is gentler and more eloquent. That is: You believers don't do things that are forbidden, without having to say, you wouldn't do 
them anyway. 
1494-) Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "None of you wants a woman whose (Muslim) brother has proposed marriage." Bukhari, Nikah, 67/45; Shafii, Risale, 48. 1495-) Imam-i  Malik (radiyallahu anh) says: -Allahu a'lam-If the explanation of Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) saying “None of you wants a woman whom his brother proposes to marry” is as follows. Necessity: A man proposes to a woman, she inclines to him, they agree on a certain mahr and they mutually agree, now the woman binds herself to him. At that time, our Prophet forbade another man to propose to this woman. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not mean to say, "None of you should aspire to a woman who was offered marriage to him but did not consent and there was no agreement between them." Otherwise, it caused unrest among the people. 
1496-) Abdurrahman b. According to Qasim, from his father, Allahu ta'ala said, "There is no sin in making women feel (waiting for this period) by allusion or having a desire to get them. God knows that you will remember them. But do not make secret promises to them. But tell them legitimate and customary things” Bakara, 2/235. In the tafsir of the qawli sheriff, he says: A person who wants to marry such a woman tells him, "You are very precious to me, while he is waiting for her after the death of her deceased husband. I am really close to you. Allah will give you wealth and abundant sustenance. 
1497-) Abdullah b. From Abbas (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said (about marriage): “The consent and permission of a widow is more important than that of her guardian. The permission of virgin girls is also taken, their silence is considered permissible. Muslim, Nikah, 16/8, no: 66; ÿeybanî, 540. 1498-) Ömer b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) says: Women cannot get married without the permission of their guardian or family member or the Sultan (mulki chief). Shaybani, 542 1499-) Malik (radiyallahu anh) says: It has been reported to me that Kasÿm, son of Muhammad, and Salim, son of Abdullah, married their daughters without their permission. Malik says: In our opinion, this provision is about the marriage of virgin girls. 1500-) Imam-i  Malik says: A virgin girl cannot save her property until she gets married and goes home and her saving 
power is known. 1501-) According to what is reported to Imam-i  Malik, Qasim son of Muhammad, Salim son of Abdullah and 
Sulayman son of Yesar used to say about the virgin. Her father marries her without her permission, which becomes binding on her. If a guardian other than her father marries the girl, and the girl does not want it, she breaks the marriage. 
1502-) Sa'd son Sahl es-Saidi  narrates: A woman came to the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa 
sallam) and said: "O Messenger of Allah! I gave myself to you,” he said, and stood and waited. Thereupon, one of his (companions) 
stood up and said: O Messenger of Allah! If you don't want to get it, marry it to me." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do you 
have anything to give him mahr?" said. The man said: “I have nothing but my dress on me. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): 
If you give him my clothes, you will be naked. "Search for something else," he said. Man: I can't find anything." said. The Messenger 
of Allah said: Can't you find an iron ring too?' he commanded. 
The man searched and found nothing. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to the man: Do you know anything from 
the Qur'an?' said. When the man said, "I know such and such and such surahs from the suras whose name he has mentioned," 
the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I married him to you on the condition that you teach him the suras you know. Bukhari, Nikah, 
67/40; Muslim, Nikah, 12/12, no: 76. 1503-) Ömer b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) says: If a man marries a woman who has insanity, 
leprosy or leprosy and comes into contact with her, she must give her mahr in full, while the woman's guardian pays the entire 
mahr to the husband (since he is in a cheating state), Said b. For the similar narrated from Museyyeb, see. Shaybani, 539 Malik 
says: If the person who marries the woman named after him is his guardian, father, brother, or someone who knows about his fault, 
he will pay the full amount of the mahr to the husband. But if the married parent, uncle, or mawla (his master who freed him), or 
someone close to him who does not know his fault, does not pay the mahr, the woman herself returns what she received from the 
mahr, and the husband leaves some of it to the woman as compensation. 

1504-) Nafi' narrates: Ubeydullah b. Omar's daughter's mother, Zayd b. She is the daughter of Khattab. Abdullah b. She was married to Ömer's son. The boy died before he had intercourse with her. He had not appointed Mehri either. The mother asked for her daughter's mahr. Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh): “He does not need mahr. If mahr was needed, of course we would give it. We would not be unfair to him," he said, but his mother did not accept. Thereupon, Zayd b. They appointed Sabit (radiy-Allâhu  anh) as an arbitrator. Zayd b. Thabit (radiyallahu anh): She gave a fatwa that the mahr did not fall and that her husband should inherit it. ÿeybanî, 543. 1505-) Ömer b. During his caliphate, Abdulaziz wrote the following to his governors: 
The property of the woman, if her guardian, father or someone else has set a condition for her marriage while she is getting married. The woman can take it whenever she wants. 1506-) Imam-i  Malik, stipulating a donation to be given to the woman 
regarding the mahr, says about the woman who was married by her father: Whatever conditions were stipulated in the marriage 
ceremony, it is the woman's, if she wishes, she can take it. to the nuptials 
Her husband, who left her before entering, should give half of whatever he stipulated to give to the woman during the marriage. 1507-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a father gives birth to his little son (who has not reached puberty) who has no property, his father must give the mahr. If the child has property, the mahr is given from the child's property. However, if the father has taken the mahr on himself, the marriage of the child who has not reached puberty is valid and is in the custody of his father. 1508-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person who marries a virgin girl divorces his wife before the end of time, it is permissible if the girl's father forgives half of the mahr. Half of the mahr is deducted from her husband. In the analysis of this judgment, Malik says: "...unless they forgive." He said, "What is meant here are women with whom marriage is entered into. Again, Allah said: "Or let the one who has the wedding knot forgive." commands. This is the father of the virgin girl and the master of the concubine, Imam Malik says: This is what I heard about this. 
This is the verdict in our opinion. The above verse is the 237th verse of the chapter of al-Baqara.  The translation is as follows: "If you divorce the women whom you have appointed dowry before you get married with them, then half of the dowry you have appointed is theirs. Unless they, or the ones holding the wedding knot (parents), have forgiven it. Forgiveness is closer to piety. Do not forget about the good among yourself. God sees what you do.” Malik's statement: ".. They are women who are engaged in marriage..." according to his own understanding. As we have written in the translation, the apparent meaning of the verse is the women who get divorced without having intercourse with them. This is how most scholars understand it. 1509-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a Jewish or Christian woman married to a Jew or a Christian becomes a Muslim before marriage with her, 
the mahr is deducted. 1510-) Imam-i  Malik says: A woman's mahr cannot be less than a quarter dinar. This is the minimum amount that requires amputation for theft. 
1511-) Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) decreed that the mahr is obligatory for the spouses who enter the bridal chamber and stay alone. Shaybani, 532. 
1512-) Zayd b. Constant says: When a person enters the wedding room with his wife and the curtain is lowered (when the door is closed), mahr becomes fard. 1513-) Said b. Müseyyeb says: When the man enters the marriage in the woman's house, the man's word about contact is valid. 1514-) Imam-i  Malik says: Even if the man enters the courtroom in the woman's house, if the woman says: My wife touched me, and the man says I did not touch him, the man's word is accepted. If a woman enters the bridal chamber in the man's house, if the man says: I did not touch her, the woman's word will be accepted if the woman says: He touched me. 
1515-) Abdurrahman's son, Abu Bakr al-Mahzumi  (radiyallahu anh), was reported as follows: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) married Umm Salama, he said: You will always be valuable. If you want, I can stay with you for seven nights, stay with my other wives for seven nights, if you want, I can stay with you for three nights and go to the others, and come back in three days.” Umm Salama said: Stay three nights. Muslim, Radâ, 17/12, no: 41-44; Shaybani, 525. Religion, as it prioritizes justice in everything, also orders a person who marries more than one woman to apply justice among his wives. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), who set an example for his ummah in everything, also set an example in this regard. A person who has several wives should divide the nights between his wives equally. Only he gave special rights to his newly married wife in the first days to socialize. As stated in the next hadith, it is seven nights for a virgin and three nights for a widow. 
1516-) Enes b. Malik (radiyallahu anh) says: (The special right granted to newly married women) is seven nights for a virgin girl and three nights for a widow. Bukhari, Nikah, 67/100-101; Muslim, Radâ, 17/12, no: 45-46. 1517-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, this is the ruling. If he has a wife 
other than his newly married wife, he divides the nights equally between them after the first days of the newly married woman have passed. He doesn't count on the first nights he spends with his newlywed wife. 
1518-) Said b. They asked Musayyeb: What is the ruling if a woman makes a condition for her husband not to expel her from her hometown (not to take her to a foreign country) while she is getting married?» If her husband wants, she can take him out," she said. 1519-) Imam-i  Malik says: 
According to us, when her husband says that condition, the rule is like this. If he stipulates to his wife: I will not take another woman on him, I will not have a concubine, while he is getting married, he does not have to fulfill his condition. However, if he reinforces this condition by swearing to talaqa (divorce) or to free a slave, he must abide by the aforementioned condition. (That is, only then cannot he marry another woman and have a concubine on his wife's behalf.) 
1520-) Abdurrahman b. Zebiyr's son Zebiyr narrates: Rifaa, son of Simval—in  the time of the Messenger of Allah—divorced  his wife, daughter of Vehb, Temime with three talaqs, and Tamime married Abdurrahman, son of Zebiyr. Abdurrahman could not have sexual relations with Temime due to the weakness of his sexual power. He divorced Temime. She wanted to remarry her first husband, Rifaa Temime, who had divorced him before. When he asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about this, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) did not approve of this marriage and said: "It will not be lawful for you unless you have actual relations with her second husband. (So you can't marry him)" he said. Bukhari, Libas, 87/6; Muslim, Nikah, 16/16, no: 111-115. 
1521-) Kasÿm, son of Muhammad, narrates from Hadrat Aisha: They asked Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh): “After a man divorced his wife (three times) in a way that he could never get her again, another man married this woman and divorced her without touching her. Could her first husband have this woman again?” Aisha (radiyallahu anh): “No. She can't take it without her second husband having actual sexual intercourse with her. 1522-) It was reported to Imam-i  Malik: They asked Qasim, son of Muhammad: After a man divorced his wife three times, another man married her. But he died before he could get close to the woman. Could this woman get her first husband again? 
Kasÿm replied, "It is not permissible to take no." 1523-) Imam-i  Malik says about "Muhallil": A person who divorces his wife with three talaqs cannot continue his marriage with his ex-wife  unless he meets a new marriage. If he remarries with his wife, who divorced after marrying someone else, he has to give his wife his mahr. 
1524-) From Abu Hurayra: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A woman cannot be with her aunt and aunt in a man's marriage." Buhari, Nikah, 67/27; Muslim, Nikah, 16/3, no: 33; ÿeybanî, 526 1525-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: A woman cannot marry over her aunt or aunt. A man cannot have intercourse with his concubine who is pregnant by another man. Shaybani, 527. 
1526-) Yahya, son of Said, narrates: They asked Zayd, son of Sabit: After a man married a woman, he divorced her without approaching her. Is the mother of the woman he divorced halal for this man?" Zayd (radiyallahu anh): No (he is considered his mother-in-law),  it is never permissible. There are no conditions in this regard. The condition is only about «Rebaib» (Step-daughters).”  said. The issue is as follows: marrying a girl makes it haram to marry her mother, even in the event of an unrelated divorce. However, if the girl's mother divorces her at the marriage ceremony —without  intercourse--it  is permissible for her to marry her daughter (who is a stepdaughter at some point). However, if he divorces after having intercourse with his mother, he cannot marry his daughter. 1527-) Imam-i  Malik narrates from more than one narrator: Abdullah 
b. While Mas'ud was in Kufa, they asked him: If someone divorces the girl he married without touching her, can he marry her mother?' Abdullah: Yes, it is permissible.” he allowed it. Then when he went to Madinah and asked the great Companions about the issue: No, it is not permissible. The condition is only about stepdaughters.” They replied, "In other words, if he divorces her on condition that he does not touch the woman he married, he can marry his daughter." Thereupon, Abdullah b. When Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh) returned to Kufa, he came to the man to whom he had given the fatwa without going to his house, (he said that it was not permissible for the girl he had divorced without touching her to marry her mother and ordered him to leave his wife). 1528-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man marries his wife's mother and has relations with her, his wife will be haram for him. He should let go of both. Now both of them will be forbidden to him forever. If he has not yet approached his mother-in-law,  whom he married, he will divorce her and his wife will not be haram. 1529-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man marries his wife's mother, that is, his mother-in-law  and touches her (contact with her), that woman will be unlawful for him, his father and his son forever. If that woman has another daughter, it will be haram for her, and her wife will be haram too. 1530-) Imam-i  Malik says: But if approaching a woman is not by marriage but by adultery, he does not forbid any of them. For, Allahu ta'ala (while counting the women whose marriage is forbidden): In our religion, adultery is one of the major sins. It requires the harshest punishment. In the above matter, a person who commits adultery because of his ignorance or negligence is deemed to have been cleansed of his sin after seeing his serial punishment or after repenting and putting an end to fornication. 
Therefore, it is permissible for the aforementioned woman to marry her mother or daughter. "The mothers of your wives are also forbidden to you" Nisa, 4/22. he ordered. Here, it means that your wives and mothers are forbidden by marriage, it is not mentioned that it is forbidden by adultery. Therefore, a halal and legitimate marriage is considered a halal marriage. This is what I have heard, and this is the practice of the people in Madina. 1531-) Malik says: Even if a person commits adultery with a woman, he can marry that woman's daughter if the hadd is made (if the punishment given by the sharia is applied). The son of that man can marry the woman he has committed adultery with. Because his contact with that woman is unlawful. Allâhu ta’âlâ has forbidden for his son only the woman whose father married with a legitimate or doubtful marriage. Allahu ta'ala: "Do not marry the woman your father married from among women." he commands. Nisa: 22. 1532-) Malik says: If a man marries a woman during his "iddah" (within the waiting period) in a halal marriage and makes contact with her, it will be haram for his son to marry that woman. Because his father married that woman in a lawful marriage that does not require punishment. The child born belongs to his father. Just as it is haram for the son of that man to marry the woman he has married and has contact with, if the boy has contact with this woman, this woman's daughter is also haram for this man. 1533-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the "cigar" style of marriage. Cigar: It is the marriage of two people with each other's daughters without mutually giving mahr. Bukhari, Nikah, 67/28; Muslim, Nikah, 16/6, no: 57; Shaybani, 533. 
1534-) Hansa, daughter of Hÿdam from Ansar, tells: I am widowed. My father married me to someone—even  though I didn't want to. When he went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and told him about it, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) 
Sallam) broke the marriage. Bukhari, Nikah, 67/42; Shaybani, 529. 
1535-) Ebu'z-Zübeyr  el-Makki  narrates: Ömer b. When a marriage case was brought before Khattab (radiy-Allâhu  anh) with the testimony of a 
man and a woman: “This is a secret marriage. The secret of this marriage comes from the lack of witnesses. As it is known, either two men or a 
man and two women will testify in a religious marriage. 
I don't allow. He said, "If I had seen those before me, I would have stoned those who got married like this". ÿeybanî, 534 1536-) Said b. al-
Museyyeb and Süleyman b. From Yesâr: Tuleyha from the Esed tribe was the married wife of Ruseyd from the Sakif tribe, she divorced him. 
He also got married (to another person) before his iddat (waiting period) expired. Hearing this, Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) whipped Tuleyha 
and her married husband (because she got married before her iddah expired). Separated from each other. He then said: "Which woman 
marries before her iddat ends, if her husband has not yet approached her, they separate from each other. Then, after finishing the waiting 
period from her first husband, the man who married and separated during the waiting period can propose to her like the others. If she had a 
relationship with the man she married, when the marriage is annulled (broken down) and separated, she first ends the waiting period of her 
first husband, then waits until her iddah ends due to her other husband, they do not come together again (that is, they become strangers to 
each other). Malik, Said b. Narrated by Musayyeb; At the same time, he said that he should give the mahr to this woman because he made 
contact. 1537-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, if a free woman whose husband has died, after waiting four months and ten days, has a 
suspicion of getting pregnant from her husband, she waits until her suspicion is gone and cannot marry someone else. 

1538-) Abdullah b. Abbas and Abdullah b. When Umar was asked about a man's desire to buy a concubine for his free wife, they did 
not like to bring the two together. The reason why marriage with a concubine is tolerated on a free woman in the Shari'ah is to reduce and 
eliminate slaves and concubines, which were common all over the world at that time, as much as possible. 

1539-) Said b. It is reported that Musayyeb said: A free woman cannot be married to a concubine unwillingly. 
If he wishes, he will receive two-thirds  (in the division at night). . Even a person who cannot marry a free woman, if he can control himself, is 
not right to marry a concubine. Because Allahu ta'ala says in his book: Whoever cannot find the financial means to marry free women, you can 

marry the Muslim concubines you have. This permission is for those of you who have a fear of committing sin.” 

Women, 4/25. 

1541-) Zayd b. Thabit says about the person who buys his concubine again after divorcing him with three talaqs: It will not be lawful for him 
unless that concubine marries another man and gets divorced (he cannot marry a concubine). 

1542-) Said b. Müseyyeb and Süleyman b. They asked Yesar: "Is it lawful for a man to marry his concubine to his slave, if the slave 
divorces his wife, and then the master grants that concubine to him?" they said. They replied, "It is not permissible to marry and divorce 
someone else." 1543-) Imam-i  Malik asked Ibn Shihab: "Is it lawful for a man to buy a concubine after divorcing a concubine with a talaq?" 

she asked. He said: “Unless he gets divorced with three talaqs, it will be lawful for him if he owns it. (He lives with her as a husband and 
wife). 1544-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man marries someone else's concubine and has a child with him, and then sells her, that concubine will 
not be his ummuvedi as he is in someone else's milk. However, if, after purchasing the concubine, she gives birth to a child with her own milk, 
then the concubine becomes her ummu parent. If a concubine, who is in a person's milk, gives birth to a child from her master, she takes the 

name "ummu child". Such a concubine cannot be sold or donated. He becomes free after his master dies. This is one of the rules set by the 
religion of Islam to liberate concubines. 

1545-) Imam-i  Malik says: When he buys the concubine who became pregnant while he was at his wedding and gives birth to the child 
with him, he is considered an ummu parent. 
1546-) To Hadrat Omar: "Can a person who owns his mother and daughter as concubines get closer to the other after uniting with one of 
them?" they asked. He replied: "I do not find it right to unite with both," and forbade living a husband and wife life with both mother and daughter. 

1547-) Kabÿsa b. Zueyb narrates: A man Osman b. He asked Affan (radiyallahu anh): Can the master live the life of husband and wife with 
two sisters who are concubines?» Osman b. Affan (radiyallahu anh) replied as follows; One verse made it halal, another verse made it haram 
to live the life of two sisters, concubines and husband and wife. I don't see it as permissible," he said. Hazrat Uthman (radiy-Allâhu  anh) states 
in the verse that makes it permissible to live a life of wife with two sisters who are concubines, "24 of the Nisa Surah." it means the verse. After 
declaring the women whose marriage is forbidden in the previous verse, Allahu ta'ala says in this verse: "... Except for your concubines...". It is 
said that the concubines are absolute indifferently, it is not stated whether it is halal for their master even if they are two sisters. He said it was 
forbidden 

The verse is "23 of the chapter of an-Nisa".  verse. He goes on and says: When the man left Hadrat Uthman, he met one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and asked him the same issue: If I find the person who did this (who married two sisters) even though I have the authority, severe punishment I will,” he replied. Shihab: This companion of Ali b. “I think it is Abi Talib,” he said. ÿeybanî, 537 1548-) Imam-i  Malik'e, Zübeyr b. A similar opinion was reported from Avvam as well. 1549-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not halal if a man wants to contact the brother of the same concubine after he has contacted his concubine. However, by freeing his concubine or by making a mukataba contract, a mukataba contract is the agreement of a person to be free after paying a certain amount with his concubine or slave. or by marrying his slave or someone else—if  he makes it unlawful for himself, then he can come into contact with his concubine's sister. 
1550-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Umar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) donated a concubine to his son and said to him: "Don't touch her. I looked at the private part, (it is not halal for you)" he said. 1551-) Malik (radiyallahu anh), Abdurrahman b. Narrated by al-Mucebber:  Salim b. Abdullah donates a concubine to his son and says to him: "Do not approach him. Because I wanted to contact him. But after seeing her body, I gave up. That is, I saw his private place, it means that it is not permissible for you to approach him. 1552-) Abu Nehsel, son of Eswad, told Yahya, son of Sa'id, as follows: "To Kasÿm, son of Muhammad: I saw my concubine naked (intimate parts) in the moonlight. I immediately approached her as a man approaches his wife. Thereupon, my concubine said, "Don't come near me, I'm in a period (menstruation)". I immediately got up and walked away from him. Now, if I donate it to my son, can he have sexual relations with him?" said. He also did not allow me to give it to my son (because I saw his private parts). The reason why Qasim did not allow it is that it is not permissible for the father to marry a woman whose private parts he sees and his son. That's why a woman; Although it is permissible for the father-in-law  to remain uncovered without being covered, he cannot show him his private parts (body). 
1553-) Abdulmelik, son of Marvan, donates a concubine to his friend. After a while he said to his friend: What about the concubine?' says. He said: I want to donate it to my son. When he said, "She will live a husband and wife life with him", Abdulmalik said: Marwan (my father) was more pious than you. He donated a concubine to his son (me), and then warned him that he saw the woman's legs open and not to approach her." 1554-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible to marry a Jewish or Christian concubine. According to Imam-i  Malik, it is not permissible to marry a concubine from the People of the Book with a marriage contract, as seen in the hadith above. In one of his words, he says, "The people of the book (Jews and Christians), who are not allowed to marry by marriage, can have sexual relations with her because she is their own concubine." The difference is this: the child by a non-Muslim  concubine dies free; Because the father of the born child is Muslim, the child is subject to him. There is no possibility of being a slave to an infidel. If he is married with the same concubine, the born child becomes a slave and becomes a Muslim subject to his father. Thus, the possibility of a Muslim slave falling into the hands of an unbeliever appears. A child born is subject to his father in lineage, subject to his mother in slavery and concubine, and in religion, whichever religion is superior to him. because 
Allahu ta'ala says in the Qur'an: "The free women of the believing women and the free women of the nations (Jews and Christians) who were given the book before you (...) are lawful for you." In the 24th verse of the chapter of al-Maide,  it is permissible to marry Jewish and Christian free women. He did not allow marriage with concubines. Understanding this verse like Imam Shafi'i (i.e., considering Judaism and Christianity as polytheism) he said that it is not permissible to marry (to have relations with) non-Muslim  concubines. Hanifa, on the other hand, said that it is permissible to marry non-Muslim  concubines as well, based on the following hadith, based on the following hadith: It is permissible to marry.” (Ebussuud Tafsiri, c.1, p.333) 1556-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person's Jewish and Christian concubine is halal for him. He can live a husband and wife life with her. But a Magi concubine is not halal. It is permissible to have sexual intercourse (not marriage) with the concubines of the religious members for whom sexual intercourse is permissible through marriage. It is also not permissible to have sexual relations with the concubines of religious members for whom it is not permissible to have sexual intercourse with their freeholders through marriage. (Zürkarî, III/196). 
1557-) Said b. al-Museyyeb  says: Those who are muhsana are married women who have husbands. It is not permissible to marry them either. When you get married, the marriage is void, it is considered adultery. Allah has forbidden adultery. 1558-) Ibn Shihab and Kasÿm b. Muhammad says: The concubine that a free person marries and comes into contact with is now considered muhsana. 1559-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to all the scholars I trained with, a free person who marries a concubine is considered muhsan. A married woman is called muhsana, and a married man is called muhsan. If both of them commit adultery—shar'an—they  will be sentenced to stoning (death). 
1560-) A free woman who marries a slave is also considered muhsana. 
1561-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a free woman marries a slave, that slave cannot be considered muhsan. However, if he frees his slave during his 
marriage and has relations with the slave after he is freed, then it is considered muhsan. 
If a slave leaves his wife before he is freed, he is not considered muhsan. If he marries his wife after he frees himself and comes into 
contact with her, then he is considered muhsan. 

1562-) If a concubine marries her free master and divorces without being freed, it is not considered muhsana. It is considered muhsana when she marries after being freed and has relations with her husband. For, if a concubine marries a free person, her husband frees her, and has relations with her after liberating her, it will be muhsana. 1563-) Imam-i  Malik says: When a free Muslim marries a free Jewish or Christian or 
Muslim concubine and has relations with one of them, it becomes muhsan. 
1564-) It was narrated from Ali (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) was on the day of the Battle of Khaybar. He forbade the muta' marriage and the eating of the meat of the people of the donkey. Buhari, 64-Megazi, 38; Muslim, 16-Marriage,  2; no: 29-32. At first, as a necessity and necessity, the meat of the donkey was halal, then it was banned. Wild donkey meat is halal 
1565-) 
Urve, son of Zubayr, narrates: When his daughter Havle entered the presence of Hadrat Omar and said: Rebia, son of Umayya, married a woman in Muta' style, and the woman became pregnant', Hadrat Omar got angry and said as he was leaving, dragging his cardigan: customary. If the judgment had been left to me beforehand, I would stoning those who did this. (I would stone him to death.)» 
1566-) Rebia, son of Abu Abdurrahman, says: "A slave can take up to four women." Malik says: This is the best thing I've heard about it. 1567-) Imam-i  Malik says: "(About the slave) the status of the slave is Muhallil" Muhallil is the person who marries the woman 
who divorced her husband with three talaqs, on condition that she divorces her husband again, so that she can marry again. This type of marriage is called "analysis". The Messenger of Allah cursed the man and woman who married with this intention. A woman divorced with three talaqs cannot marry her ex-husband  until she marries someone else and gets divorced. But the new husband should really marry this woman with the intention of being his permanent wife. If, for any reason, he voluntarily divorces his wife, this woman can remarry with her ex-husband. If the second husband marries conscientiously to get married and divorce again so that the woman can marry her ex-husband,  this man is called "muhalil", and he is not like the Messenger of Allah. If the master permits, the marriage is valid. If he does not allow it, it is not valid. He is divorced from his wife. If Muhallil marries with his intention, it is definitely divorced. 1568-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a woman's husband enters her property as a slave or if a man's wife becomes her property as a concubine, this property is void without divorce. When they are united by a new marriage, it is not considered a divorce if they leave each other unwillingly because of events. If he becomes a slave or concubine after 
divorce, this property becomes valid. In other words, the divorced husband of the woman becomes his slave and his divorced wife becomes his concubine. 1569-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a woman frees her slave husband after he has taken possession of her, she will be counted in her iddat (waiting period after leaving). However, they can be united in a new marriage. 1570-) The following is reported from Ibn Shihab: In the time of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam), some women whose husbands were still unbelievers converted to Islam without emigration. One of them is the daughter of Velid, son of Mugiyra, who was the wife of Safvan, son of Umayya. He became a Muslim on the day of the 
conquest of Mecca. Her husband Safwan did not convert to Islam and fled. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) sent his uncle, Umayy’s son, Vehb, after him—giving  him his cardigan as a sign that he was safe—and  invited him to Islam. He instructed Vehb as follows: If 
Safwan is satisfied, he will accept Islam, if he does not want to come, he is given two months. When he came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) with a cardigan in his hand, the congregation said: O Muhammad! Here is the son of Umayr, Wahb, who brought me my robe and said that I called me, that if I am satisfied, I will join Islam, and if I am not, he will give me two months' time, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: O Abu Wahb! You can get off your mount.” he commanded. Safwan: No. When he said, "By Allah, I will not descend until you explain your decision to me", the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I have given you four months." Upon the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) 
He moved to Hunayn to invite the Hevazin tribe to Islam. There he sent word to Safvan, telling him to bring weapons and some supplies to be entrusted to him. As for Safwan: Will I give them of my own free will or will you take them by force?' said. When Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “With your consent”, he gave him the weapons and equipment he had with him. Afterwards, Safwan— himself a disbeliever and his wife a Muslim—participated  in the battles of Hunayn and Taif with the Messenger of Allah. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not separate his wife from him until he became a Muslim. After they converted to Islam, they continued their lives with their old marriages. Ibn Abdilber says: I don't know if it is true in an authentic way. This is a hadith known to the scholars of the siyer. Ibn Shihab is the imam of these scholars. The reputation of this hadith is stronger than its isnad. See also, Muslim, 43-Fedâil, 14, no: 59. Ekrem's decision not to separate the Muslim wife of the infidel Safvan was according to the situation of that day. He also believed that Safwan would convert to Islam. Otherwise, the definitive ruling of the religion of Islam is that a Muslim woman cannot be the wife of a non-Muslim,  regardless of her religion. 
1571-) Ibn Shihab says: Safwan converted to Islam about a month after his wife became Muslim. 1572-) Ibn Shihab says: A 
woman whose husband remained an unbeliever in the land of kufr was leaving her husband when she emigrated for the sake of Allah 
and His Messenger and became a Muslim. However, if her husband migrated as a Muslim before his iddah expired, there was no 
separation. 1573-) Ibn Shihab says: Haris b. Umm Hakim, the daughter of Hisham, was the wife of Ikrima, son of Abu Jahl, and 
became a Muslim on the day of the conquest of Mecca. Her husband Ikrime converted to Islam and fled to Yemen. His wife, Umm, 
followed him. 
Hakim went as far as Yemen and invited him to Islam. He also accepted Islam. They came to Medina in the year of the conquest. 
When he entered the presence, the Messenger of Allah got up happy to see him and greeted him. Ikrima also pledged allegiance to 
the Messenger of Allah. (He promised to fight and jihad for the sake of religion until the end of his life.) After that, he and his wife lived in 
their old marriage. 1574-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the husband becomes a Muslim and his wife remains an unbeliever, his wife will be called 
to Islam, if he does not accept, their marriage will be annulled. Because Allahu ta'ala said: "Do not keep women in your 
marriage" (Mumtahine, 60/10). Shaybani, 602. unbeliever means one who does not accept any monotheistic religion, that is, does not 
have a people of the book. Otherwise, it is permissible for a Muslim man to marry a Jewish or Christian woman. Again, the husband and 
wife become Christian or the Jewish husband becomes Muslim. 

1575-) Enes b. Malik (radiyallahu anh) narrates: Abdurrahman b. Avf (radiyallahu anh) came to the presence of the Messenger of Allah 
(sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and there was a sign of marriage on him. When the Messenger of God asked him, he said that he got married. 
The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked how much mahr he gave, and he said: "I gave gold as much as a date seed." Thereupon, the 
Prophet said: Slaughter even a sheep and have a wedding. Bukhari, Nikah, 67/54; Muslim, Nikah, 16/12, no: 79-83. 

1576-) It was narrated from Yahya, the son of Said: "According to what it is reported to me, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to feed 
meat and bread to those who came to his wedding. Ibn Mace (Marriage, 9/24) narrates it as apocalyptic. 
1577-) Abdullah b. Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If one of you is invited to a wedding, let 
him go.' Bukhari, Nikah, 67/71; Muslim, Nikah, 16/15, no: 96. 
1578-) It has been reported that Abu Huraira said: The worst table is the wedding dinner, where the poor are not invited but only the rich 
are invited. Whoever is invited but does not go, has disobeyed Allah and His Messenger.” Bukhari, Nikah, 67/72; Muslim, Nikah, 16/15, 
no: 107 1579-) Enes b. Malik narrates: The tailor invited the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to a meal he had prepared. I also went together. 
The host brought out barley bread and pumpkin soup. While I was eating, I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) picking the pumpkins in 
the soup. From that day on, I started to love zucchini. 

Bukhari, Et'imi, 70/4; Muslim, Esribe, 36/21, no: 144. 
1580-) It was reported from Zayd, the son of Eÿlem, that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If one of you 
marries a woman or buys a concubine, let him keep his bangs. Pray for good luck and prosperity. When he buys a camel, he should put 
his hand on its hump and seek refuge in Allah from the evil of Satan (the camel's kick and bite). 

1581-) Abu Zubayr al-Makki  says: The man wanted someone's sister. His brother also said that his sister committed adultery. 
Hearing this, Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) beat the girl's brother (or was almost on the verge of beating him) because of why you told 
the forgotten incident. 
1582-) Rabia b. It was narrated from Abi Abdurrahman: Qasim son of Muhammad and Urwa son of Zubayr used to say: If a man with four 
wives divorces one of his wives, he can marry if he wishes. He does not have to wait for his iddah to end. 

1583-) Kasÿm b. Muhammed and Urve b. Zubayr gave the above fatwa about Walid, son of Abdulmalik, the year he came to Medina. 
However, Mohammed's son Qasim said: "Walid divorced his wife in various assemblies." 

1584-) Said b. Müseyyeb says: Three things cannot be played with or joked about: Marriage, talaq and freeing a slave. 
(It is necessary to be very serious about these.) Abu Davud, Talak, 13/9; Tirmidhi, Talaq, 11/9; Ibn Mace, Talaq, 10/13. 
1585-) Rafi, son of Hadic, narrates: I married the daughter of Muhammad, son of Mesleme, from Ansar (Medina). 
When I got older, I married a young girl. I was paying more attention to my young wife, my first wife wanted to leave, I divorced her 
with a talaq. When his idda was about to end, I reunited with him. Then again, when he became close to my young wife, he wanted 
to leave again, I divorced her one more time. I reunited with him before his iddah ended. Later, when my closeness and compliments 
to my young wife continued, he wanted a divorce again. Then he said to him: What do you say? think well. One talaq left. (If I divorce 
you again, we will not be able to reunite.) If you are willing to live with less compliments from the young lady, let our marriage continue. 
If you do not agree to this, I will divorce you for the third time, never to be united again," I said. He said: "I'm okay with this situation, let's 
continue our marriage", and I did not leave him again. When he said that he was satisfied with this situation, I did not see any harm in it. 
Shaybani, 586. 
1586-) Malik narrated the following: A person Abdullah b. He said to Abbas: “I divorced your blood with a hundred talaq. about me 

What is your opinion?» Ibn Abbas said to him: The woman was empty with three talaq from you. With (the remaining) ninety-seven  talaqs, you have ridiculed the verses of Allah.” In Islam, the husband has the right to divorce his wife with a maximum of three talaqs. Words over it are of no value. 1587-) It was reported from Imam-i  Malik: A man Abdullah b. When he came to Mas'ud and said: "I 
divorced my wife eight talaq", Ibn Mas'ud said: "How was the fatwa given to you?" she asked. He replied: It was said that your wife was empty with three talaqs. Ibn Mas'ud continued: They have spoken the truth, and whoever divorces in accordance with Allah's command, Allah has explained (the ruling of this divorce). If a person also chatters against himself, it is his own fault. Don't bother us by making a mess against yourself. The verdict is as they say. (Your wife is empty with three talaq)». 
1588-) Abu Bakr b. Hazm said that Umar b. Abdulaziz asked me: (definitely) what do the scholars judge about his word (Talak-i  
bain)?» When he asked, I answered him as follows: b. Osman, of course, considers it a talaq.” 
Thereupon, Umar b. Abdulaziz: Even if there are a thousand talak (right to divorce), the word of course includes all of them. 
Of course, whoever uses his word has the last word. (So his wife becomes empty with three talaqs).» said. 

1589-) It was narrated from Ibn Shihab: Marwan b. The arbitrator would rule that the wife of the one who divorced his wife, on the 
basis of Of course, was empty of three talaqs. Malik says: This is the most appropriate thing I've heard about the three talaqs. 
According to the Hanafi school, if three talaqs are not intended with this word, bain talaq will occur. According to the Shafii madhhab, 

ric'î talak occurs. 1590-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: From Iraq, Umar b. They wrote to Khattab that a man said to his wife 

(with the intention of divorce) "the rope is around his neck". Thereupon, Umar b. Khattab wrote to his governor (in Iraq): Tell him to 
meet me in Mecca during the pilgrimage season. When Hazrat Umar was circumambulating the Baytullah, the man whose name was 
mentioned met Hazrat Umar and greeted him, Hazrat Umar asked: Who are you?» she asked. He replied, "I am the person you 
ordered to come", and Hazrat Umar said: "For the sake of the Lord of the Kaaba, I ask you, what was your intention when you said to 
your wife that "the rope is around your neck"? I wouldn't have told the truth if you had sworn to me anywhere else than here. When I 
said, "I meant to divorce my wife with this word, Hazrat Umar said: The judgment has been as you wished, (that is, your wife is free 
from you)". 1591-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Ali b. Abi Talib, about a person who says to his wife "You are forbidden to 
me": His wife is empty with three talaqs. According to the Hanafi school, bain talaq occurs. he gave a fatwa. Malik says: This is the 

most appropriate thing I have heard about the three talaq. 

1592-) It was narrated from Nafi, Abdullah b. Umar says: (with the intention of divorcing one's wife): "You are free or I got rid 
of you" is considered three talaq. 

1593-) It was narrated from Muhammad's son Qasim: A man was married to the daughter of a family. The man said to his wife's 
family, "Take your daughter, whatever you do." Thereupon, the jurists ruled that that woman was empty with a talaq. Shaybani, 600 
1594-) Ibn Shihab says about a man who says to his wife: "You got rid of me and I got rid of you": the woman is empty with three 

talaqs. Just like the woman who is empty with of course. 1595-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man says "You are free" or "You are saved" or 
"You are absolutely free", these three talaqs are counted. About a person who says the above words (after marriage) without 

approaching his wife, whichever of one or three talaq is intended, the same amount of talaq will occur. If the man says "I meant one", 
he will be sworn in, and that person will be one of the suitors for his wife. For, only three talaqs can definitively separate a woman who 
has had contact with her husband from her husband. Thus, the woman gets rid of her husband and becomes free. A talaq sees this 
about a woman who has not come into contact with her husband. Malik says: The most appropriate thing I have heard on this subject 
is the word of Shihab. 1596-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: A man, Abdullah b. He came to Omar and said: Ya Eba 
Abdurrahman, I gave the divorce authority to my wife. He also divorced himself. What is your opinion on this matter?» said. b. When 
Omar said: "My view is as your wife said (that is, it is empty)," the man said: "Don't do it, Eba Abdurrahman." Omer: Am I doing it? You 

did it”, he replied. 

1597-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar used to say: if he gives his wife the power to divorce, the verdict is the wife's decision" (that is, if he divorces himself, it will be empty, if he doesn't, it will not be empty). It only hinders (husband and wife). I meant to authorize divorce with only one talaq.” If he says, he swears, (ric'î talak will occur), he will return to his wife during his iddah. 
1599-) Abdurrahman b. Qasim narrated from his father: When a man from the tribe of Sakif gave the divorce authority to his wife, his wife said to him: You are talaq (you are empty) and the man remained silent. Then he said again: "You are a talaq." Her husband said: Do you have a stone (something you want to say) in your mouth? When the woman said again: "You are a talaq", her husband (again): Do you have a stone in your mouth? said. Thereupon, Marwan b. They went to the referee. Marwan made the man swear that he had authorized his wife to divorce him with only one talaq, and gave his wife to him. says: the verdict (my father) would have liked Qasim” and he was of the opinion that what he had heard about it was the most appropriate. Malik says: This is the most appropriate and most pleasing of what I have heard on the subject. 
1600-) Hadrat Aisha says: "I asked Abu Bakr's son (my brother) Abdurrahman for Abu Umayya's daughter Quraybe (from his family). They also gave. Then they reproached Abdurrahman and said: We gave it not for her, but for the sake of Hadrat Aisha. Upon this, Hazrat Aisha sent (news) to Abdurrahman and informed the situation, and Abdurrahman gave the authority to divorce (his wife) to Quraybe. Qurayba preferred her husband. This incident was not considered talaq. 
1601-) It was reported from Qasim: Hazrat Aisha, the wife of the Prophet, married Abdurrahman's daughter Hafsa to Zubayr's son Munzir while he was in Damascus. As for (from Damascus): Can this be done without me?» said. Aisha (incident) When he told Münzir, Münzir: This job is in the hands of Abdurrahman. (In other words, I gave him the authority to divorce. Whatever he says will happen.) He said: (to Aisha): I don't see the power to disrupt the work you have decided in myself. Thus, Hafsa stayed with Münzir and this event was not considered talaq. Shaybani, 569. 1602-) Abdullah b. Umar and Abu Hurayra were asked for a fatwa about the husband of the woman who gave the authority to divorce to his wife and returned it to her husband without using this authority. They both said: "Divorce does not count". 1603-) Said b. Müseyyeb says: If a man gives the authority to divorce to his wife, and his wife does not leave him and stays with him, it is not considered divorce. 1604-) Imam-i  Malik says about the woman who was given the authority to divorce, who did not accept this authority and then separated from her husband: "He has no such authority. This authority continues as long as the two of them are in one assembly.” 
1605-) Cafer narrates from his father Muhammad: Ali b. Abi Talib used to say: talaq does not occur when a person takes an oath not to approach his wife. When four months pass, he either divorces his wife or breaks his oath by having sexual intercourse, (giving atonement) and approaches his wife. Imam-i  Malik says: This is how the fatwa is in our opinion. According to Hanafi imams, if he does not return to his wife by breaking his oath within four months, talaq will occur at the end of the four months. 1606-) Narrated from Nafi; Abdullah b. Umar used to say: Nobody takes an oath not to approach his wife, but after four months, he either divorces his wife or breaks his oath by turning to her and gives his penance. An oath taken after four months is not considered talaq.” 1607-) It was narrated from Ibn Shihab: Said b. Müseyyeb and Abu Bakr b. Abdurrahman said about a man who swore not to approach his wife: When the month passes, the woman becomes empty with ric'î talak. While the woman is waiting for the iddat, her husband has the right to return.” Shaybani, 580 1608-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: About a man who swore not to approach his wife, Marwan b. 
Referee: When the month passes, the woman becomes empty with a talaq. While the woman is waiting for the iddat, her husband has the right to ric'at (return). Shaybani, 579 1609-) Malik says: If a man makes a dowry for his wife, if he does not return to his wife but divorces (his ric'i is talak), he has the right to return within his iddat. (In this case) there is no right to return. However, if (not approaching) is due to legitimate excuses such as illness or imprisonment, the right to return to his wife continues. He marries again after his iddat ends and the bain becomes vacant with talaq. If he does not approach his wife until four months have passed, it is taken into account that if he does not break his oath, he becomes a talaq bain with the first oath and cannot return again. Since he got married and divorced without approaching his wife, he has no right of iddat and ric'at on his wife. 1610-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person who has sworn not to approach his wife will be considered after four months, and if he divorces, he will receive a talak ric. He can return in his iddat. If four months pass before his iddah ends, talaq will not occur, he can return until his iddah ends. In the meantime, when his iddah ends without returning, talaq becomes ba'in and he cannot return again. This is the best thing I've heard on the subject. 1611-) Imam-i  Malik says about a man who swore not to approach his wife, then divorced with one talaq and four months passed before the divorce period expires: If the man does not make kaffarah by breaking his oath, he will have divorced with two talaqs. If the iddah for divorce ends before four months (in this case), the man's oath will not be divorced. Because four months have passed while his wife is free from him. 1612-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person takes an oath not to approach his wife for a day or a month and then waits until more than four months have passed (if he does not approach his wife), this oath is not an oath that requires divorce. The oath requiring divorce is the oath of a person who has sworn not to approach (his wife) for more than four months. However, the oath of a person who has sworn not to approach his wife for four months or less is not considered to be in my opinion. Because when the time to take his evil eye into account (that is, four months) comes, his oath will be fulfilled. Nothing is needed. 1613-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a husband takes an oath not to approach his wife until she has weaned her child, this oath is not considered as an oath. As a matter of fact, according to me, Ali b. When Abu Talib was asked about this issue, he stated that this oath would not be accepted. 1614-) Imam-i  Malik says: I asked Ibn Shihab about the verdict of his oath that he would not approach the slave's wife. Shihab said: His oath is as firm as the free man's oath. However, the duration of the slave's admiration is two months (not four months).” 1615-) It was reported to Imam-i  Malik: Said b. Amr b. Suleyb ez-Zureki said he would divorce the woman he was going to marry. 
about a man who said Kasÿm b. He asked Muhammad (fatwa). He also said: To the man who said to his wife, "If I marry you, your back will be like my mother's back to me," Hadrat Umar ordered, "If you get married, don't approach your wife until you give atonement." 1616-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: A man, Kasÿm b. Muhammad and Sulayman b. He asked Yesar (fatwa) about a man who committed zihar to his wife before she got married. They said: "If he marries that woman, he will not be able to touch her until he gives atonement." 
1617-) Hisham b. Urwa's father narrates from Urwa: He said to his four wives in one sentence, "You are all like my mother's back to me", 
about a man who said: He only needs atonement. 
1618-) Rabia b. It has also been reported from Abu Abdirrahman. Malik says: This is how the fatwa is for us. 
Allah said about the penance of zihar: “(Whoever commits zihar to his wife) frees a slave before he touches it. A man who cannot find 
a slave fasts for two consecutive months without approaching his wife, and if he cannot fast, he feeds sixty poor people.” 
Struggle, 3,4 
1619-) Imam-i  Malik says about a person who commits zihar to his wife in separate assemblies: Only atonement is required. If he makes 
zikhar, then gives his penance, and then makes zikhar again, another penance is required.” 1620-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person joins 
together after making zihar and before making kaffarah, only one kaffarah is required. He does not approach his wife until he gives 
atonement. He asks Allah's forgiveness (for approaching beforehand). This is the best I've heard. 1621-) Imam-i  Malik says: The analogy 
made to women whose marriage is forbidden in terms of milk and lineage is the same. (There is no difference between them). 1622-) 
Imam-i  Malik says: Women cannot commit zihar to their husbands. 

1623-) Imam-i  Malik says about the 3rd verse of Struggle, "Those who commit zihar to their wives and then turn away from their 
promises..." The interpretation of this verse is as I have heard: A man makes a zihar to his wife (he says your back is like my mother's), 
1623-) If he then decides to approach his wife, kaffarah becomes obligatory for him. If, after committing zihar to his wife, he does not 
decide to approach and divorces, penance will not be obligatory on him. If he marries again after that, he cannot touch her without giving 

atonement. 

1624-) Imam-i  Malik also says about someone who commits zihar to his concubine: If this person wants to get close to his concubine, 
he must give zihar kaffarah before the relationship. 1625-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person who has made zihar has also done a 
medicine, a separate kaffarah is required. However, if he does not want to return (out of his weakness) with the penance of zikr, he 
can return with the penance of îlâ (oath). 
1626-) Hisham b. Urve says: man, Urve b. He asked ez-Zubayr:  “A man said to his wife: Let every woman I marry as long as you live be 
like the back of my mother. What's the point of that?" b. Zubayr said: It is enough to free a slave. 

1627-) Malik says: I asked Shihab about the verdict of the slave's zihar. He replied: "It is like his zihar". 1628-) Imam-i  Malik says: He means that it is like the redemption of a free person. Whatever is required of a free person due to zihar, the same is required of a slave, and the zihar committed by a slave is constant. 1629-) Imam-i  Malik says about a slave who commits zihar to his wife (and has sworn not to approach her): With his atonement, the expiation of the oath will not be fulfilled. While the slave is fasting as a penance for zihar, talaq occurs due to his oath before he finishes his fast. 
1630-) Kasÿm b. From Muhammad: Hadrat Aisha said: Because of the concubine (named concubine), the Shariah ruling (three sunnahs) of three issues was learned. One of them is this: When Berîre was freed, she was left with the choice of separating from her husband and staying with him. When Hazrat Aisha wanted to buy Barîre, the Prophet said this word when Barîre's husband said, "The right of vela belongs to us." (Zürkanî, IH/235)  When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered the house, meat was boiling in the pot (on the stove). When the bread and the condiments found in the house were brought to him, the Messenger of Allah said: "I saw meat being cooked in a pot," (people in the house): Yes, O Messenger of Allah! But that meat was given to Barîre as charity. You do not eat alms.” When they said, the Messenger of Allah said: This meat is charity for him, and it is a gift from Barire to us. , Talaq, 68/14; Muslim, Itk, 20/2; No: 14. For similar, see. Shaybani, 797-798 1631-) Narrated from Nafi: Abdullah b. 'Umar said: "The concubine has the right to annul the marriage before approaching her." 1632-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a (freed) concubine and her husband claim that she does not know that she is a concubine after they are united, her claim will not be accepted and there will be no longer any option. 
1633-) Urve b. Az-Zubayr  says: A concubine named Zebra of the sons of Adi told me that she was married to a slave while she was a concubine, and said: When she was freed, Hafsa, the wife of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) called me and gave you a news. I will give you,—I  don't want you to do anything either—:  You have the right to annul your marriage before your husband approaches you. If he comes close to you, he will lose this right. 
goes,” he said. When she heard this, she said: "Let it be empty, then empty, then empty" and divorced her husband with three talaqs. 1634-) Said b. Müseyyeb says: If any man who is insane and lacking marries a woman, this woman is free: She can stay with her husband if she wants, or get divorced. Shaybani, 539, See also. 538. 1635-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a slave marries a concubine and the concubine is freed without mating with her, if the concubine wants to break the marriage, it will be void with a talaq and she will not need mahr. This is the verdict in our opinion. 1636-) It was narrated that Imam-i  Malik heard Ibn Shihab saying: "A man gives his wife the right to choose whether or not to divorce her, and if she chooses to stay with her husband, it is not considered talaq." Malik says: This is the best thing I've heard. 
1637-) Imam-i  Malik says about the woman who is left with a choice: When her husband leaves her, if the woman asks for a 
divorce, it will be empty with three talaqs. According to the Hanafi Sect, a talaq-i  bain occurs. If he says, "I have made you 
only in one talaq", he will not be divorced with one talaq (all three talaks go). This is the best I've heard. 1638-) Imam-i  Malik 
says: The woman left by her husband: I accepted one talaq (I do not accept the others). Without any harm to her marriage, 
she stays with her husband as in her old marriage, God willing, this will not happen 1639-) Yahya b. Said narrated: Amre, 
daughter of Abdurrahman, narrated to me from Habibe, daughter of Sahl from Ansar: Habibe, Kays b. He was married to the son 
of Shemmas, Sabit. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) went out to perform the morning prayer, he found 

Sahl's daughter Habiba waiting in front of his door at dusk. 

When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to him, he replied: I am Habiba, the daughter of Sahl, 
O Messenger of Allah! said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): yes? said. About Habiba's husband: My husband is Sabit b. 
"It's impossible for us to stay married to Kays," she said. fixed b. When Qais came, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to him; He 
said (your wife) What is Habibe saying? Habiba said: I have all the things you gave me as mahr (I can give it back if you wish). 
Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Thabit: “Take what you have given”. Hard got them back. 
Habibe left her husband and stayed with her family. Abu Dawud, Talaq, 13/17; Nesai, Talak, 27/34; Ibn Mace, Talak, 22 1640-) 
Abû Ubeyde's daughter Safiye's freed concubine was divorced by giving her everything to her husband, and this was Abdullah b. 
It has been reported that Omar welcomed it. Shaybani, 562. 

1641-) Imam-i  Malik says about the woman who divorced her husband in return for a price (property): If it is known that her 
husband has harmed, distressed or wronged her, the divorce will be valid and she will give back the goods she took from her wife. 
This is what I have heard, this is the verdict that our jurists agree on. 1642-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is also permissible for a woman to 
divorce her husband by giving more than he received. 
1643-) From Nafi: Muavvez b. Afra's daughter Rubeyyi' together with her uncle Abdullah b. They came to Omer. To him, 
Rubeyyi's Osman b. Affan reported that she had divorced her husband by giving property. At that time, Osman b. Affan welcomed 
the news that reached him. b. 'Umar said, "The iddat of this woman is like that of a divorced woman." 

1644-) Said b. Müseyyeb, Süleyman b. Yasar and Ibn Shihab used to say that the iddah of a woman who divorces for a price (money) is three menstrual periods, like other divorced women. 1645-) Imam-i  Malik says: A woman who gets divorced by giving away property can only return to her husband with a new marriage. If they marry again and leave without uniting with her husband, her iddat does not start from the second talaq, but continues from the first divorce. Malik says: This is the most appropriate thing I have heard on the subject. 1646-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a woman gives something in return for her divorce, if her husband divorces his wife with three successive talaqs, all of them will be valid. If he breaks his word with silence, the talaqs he gives after the silence will not occur (because the talaq given after the talaq has no value since it means divorcing a common-law  woman). 
1647-) Sahl b. From Sa'd es-Sâidi:  Uveymir al-Aclanî,  from Ansar Asÿm b. Adiyye came and said: What do you say to the man who caught his wife with a stranger, Asim, if he kills the stranger, would you kill him (in short), or how will this man act? Ask the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about this matter on my behalf.' When he asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), the Messenger of Allah did not like these questions and blamed him. So much so that what he heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) hurt Asim. When Asim returned to his house, Uveymir came to him and said: O Asÿm! What answer did the Messenger of Allah give you?” said. Asÿm: You have given me a job. The Messenger of Allah did not like the matter I asked him.” When he said that, Uwaymir said: I will not leave this issue without asking the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, Uwaymir came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) while he was with the companions and said: What do you say to the man who caught his wife with a stranger, would you kill him (in short) if he killed the stranger, or how will this man act?' (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) replied: A verse was revealed about you and your wife. Go get your wife," he said. 
says: "When I was with the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), they also became cursed." 
If I stay married to him, I can slander him, O Messenger of Allah." Before the Messenger of Allah ordered him to divorce him, he divorced his wife with three talaqs. Shihab said, "From now on, those who were cursed followed this path." Bukhari, Talak, 68/4; Muslim, Lian, 19/1. 1648-) Abdullah b. From Umar: In the time of the Messenger of Allah, a man cursed his wife and said that the child was not his own. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) separated them from each other and gave the child to its mother. Bukhari, Talak, 68/35; Muslim, Lifin, 19/8; Shaybani, 587. 1649-) Imam-i  Malik says: Almighty Allah said: The testimony of one of those who have no witnesses other than themselves (in order not to be punished by qazf), swearing by Allah four times that he is one of the truthful, and Allah rather than those who lie the fifth time. It is because he wants his curse to be on him. It is the wife's swearing by Allah four times that her husband is one of the liars, and fifthly, that her husband wants the wrath of Allah to be on those who speak the truth. This witness saves him from punishment." Nur, 24/6-9 1650-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, what is sunnah is that cursed couples cannot marry again. If the man tells a lie, the qazf hadd (the penalty of slander) is applied for slandering a foreign woman. The child is registered on the husband. A woman cannot return to her husband forever. In our opinion, this is absolutely and unanimously. 1651-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the husband, who has definitely divorced his wife and has no right to return to her, later denies that his wife is pregnant (from him), it looks like the woman (contrary to what is claimed) has become pregnant by that man, although a time of doubt has passed. She claims the child is from that man, but if it's not known for sure, they're cursed. This is what I heard from the erbab-i  knowledge, according to us, this is the verdict. 1652-) Imam-i  Malik says: A husband who confesses that his wife is pregnant with him and divorces him with three talaqs while pregnant, and who claims that he saw her committing adultery before he left, is not cursed for slandering a foreign person. Hadd is applied to this man. If she denies that she is pregnant with him after she has divorced him with three talaqs, they will be cursed. This is what I heard. 1653-) Imam-i  Malik says; There is no difference between a free person and a slave regarding the accusation of adultery and hadd. There is so much that the hadd is not applied to those who accuse the concubine. 1654-) Imam-i Malik says: A Muslim concubine, married to a Christian or Jewish free woman and having intercourse with a Muslim free husband and his wife are cursed. because 
Almighty Allah has said in the Qur'an that "those who slander their wives" (Nur, 24/6). A Muslim concubine and a free Christian or Jewish woman are also included in the word "wives" here. In our opinion, this is the case. 1655-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a slave 
marries a Muslim free woman, or a Muslim concubine, or a Jewish or Christian free woman, they will be consulted when necessary. 1656-) Imam-i  Malik says about the husband who cursed his wife and who came to his senses and denied himself after one or two 
oaths without cursing him in the fifth oath: The limit of slander is applied to the husband, they are inseparable. 1657-) Imam-i  Malik says about the husband of the wife who divorces his wife and says "I am pregnant" after three months: If the husband denies that this woman is pregnant, he will curse his wife. 
1658-) Imam-i  Malik also says about the concubine whose husband was cursed and later bought by her husband: Even if he has her, he cannot have a relationship. The Sunnah is that the cursed husband and wife cannot return to each other forever. 1659-) Imam-i  Malik says: A husband who curses his wife without indulgence only gives half of the mahr. 
1660-) It was reported to Malik: Urwa b. Zubayr used to say the following about the child of the woman who built a khan and the child who committed adultery: When he dies, his mother gets a share of his inheritance as stated in the Qur'an, and one of his siblings gets the same share. The remaining inheritance goes to their masters if the woman is a freed concubine. If she is free and not a concubine, after she gets her rights and her children get their rights, the rest goes to the treasury.” 1661-) Imam-i  Malik says to me: Suleyman b. A similar one was reported from Yesar. I caught up with the time when the ulama in our country acted in this way. 
1662-) Muhammed b. Abdurrahman b. It was narrated from Sevban. Muhammed b. Iyas b. al-Bukayr  said: Before he entered zifafa, a man divorced his wife with three talaqs, and then he wanted to marry this woman he had divorced. Thereupon, he came (to me) to ask for a fatwa. Together with Abdullah b. We went to Abbas and Abu Huraira. He asked them about the matter. They said, "You cannot marry a woman without marrying another husband." He said: "I divorced her with only one talaq." Ibn Abbas said, "You missed the blessing." 1663-) Ata b. Yesar said: One of the men, Abdullah b. Amr b. He came to al-As  to inquire about another person (fatwa) who divorced his wife with three talaqs without having intercourse. says: "I said that the talaq of a girl who is married for the first time (and is not touched) is one." Abdullah b. Amr b. al-As  to me: you are a storyteller (What do you understand from the depths of fiqh). A talaq makes it empty with a talaq-i  bain. If there are three talaqs, he will not marry that woman until they reach another husband. 
makes it unlawful," he said. 
1664-) Muawiya b. Ebî Ayyas al-Ansari  narrates as follows: b. Zübeyr and Asÿm b. Umar b. I was with al-Khattab. 

Muhammed b. Iyâs b. al-Bukayr  came and said: After the bedouin, he divorced his wife with three talaqs without approaching his wife. What is your opinion (on this matter)?» Abdullah b. ez-Zubair:  I have nothing to say about this. You, Abdullah b. Go with Abbas to Abu Huraira. They are with Hazrat Aisha. “Ask them, then come and let us know the result,” he said. The man went and asked them. Ibn Abbas said to Abu Hurayra: Here is an important issue, give your fatwa." When she says, Abu Hurayra: He makes her empty with one talaq (they can remarry). He said that all three talaqs make it haram for that woman to marry again until they reach another husband. Ibn Abbas also said the same. Imam-i  Malik says: This is the rule for us as well. 1665-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man marries a widow but does not unite, the situation of this widow is like the situation of a virgin girl. One talaq makes it void with talaq-i  bain, and three talaq makes that woman unlawful for her first husband until they reach another husband. 
1666-) Abdurrahman b. While Awf was sick, he divorced his wife with talaq-i  bain (and later died). When his idda was over, Osman b. Affan made his wife, whom he divorced with talak-i  bain, heir to him. If a person divorces his wife while he is seriously ill, and dies before he recovers, he is considered to have divorced in order to deprive himself of the inheritance, and the divorced woman gets her right from her inheritance. According to this decree, Hazrat Osman gave a share of his inheritance to Abdurrahman's wife, whom he divorced while he was sick. 1667-) It has been reported from A'rec: Osman b. Affan made Ibn Mukmil the heirs of his wives, whom he divorced while he was sick. Shaybani, 
576. 
1668-) Rebia, son of Abu Abdurrahman, was reported as follows: "His wife told him to divorce Abdurrahman b. 
He asked Avf.” He said to his wife: Let me know when you have menstruated and cleared.' His wife, Abdurrahman b. Avf did not menstruate until he 
got sick. When she was cleansed (after menstruation), she informed her husband. While her husband was sick, she divorced him with three talaq-i  
bain or one talaq. But this was the last talaq. When his idda was over, Osman b. Affan made Abdurrahman his heir. 

1669-) Muhammed b. Yahya b. Habban says: “My grandfather Habban had two wives, one from Hashim and the other from Ansar. Ansar'h 
divorced his wife while she was breastfeeding. A year later, my grandfather died, he still did not menstruate: I did not menstruate, I will inherit from 
my husband," he said. Hazrat Osman b. They were adjudicated by Affan. Osman decided that his wife from Ansar was the heir. When the Hashemite 
woman spoke against Uthman, Hazrat Uthman said: My decision is in line with what his uncle's son did.” 

(While saying this) Ali b. He pointed to us, referring to Abi Talib. 1670-) Ibn Shihab 
said: If a man divorces his wife with three talaqs while he is sick, his wife will inherit him. 1671-) Imam-i  Malik says; If the husband 
divorces his wife while he is sick, his wife will receive half of the mahr and inherit her husband. There is no need to wait for iddat. If he 
divorces after having intercourse with his wife, his wife will inherit him and receive the entire mahr. According to us, there is no difference between a 
girl and a widow in this regard. 
1672-) It was reported to Malik: Abdurrahman b. Avf divorced his wife. Mut'a gave him a concubine as a gift. 

1673-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar used to say: A woman who gets divorced before marriage and for whom mahr is given is given half of the 
admirable mahr. (Without the dowry being appreciated, but also without the marriage.) Every divorced woman must be given mut'a. Shaybani, 588. 
1674-) Ibn Shihab, "Mut'a must be given to every divorced woman." said. 1675-) Imam-i  Malik tells me: Kasÿm b. A similar narration came from 
Muhammad. 1676-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, a little or a lot of mut'a has no definite limit. 

1677-) Süleyman b. It was narrated from Yesar: She was the Mukatabi or slave of Umm Salama, the wife of the Messenger of Allah. His wife was 
a free woman. He wanted to return after divorcing her with two talaq. The wives of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told him, Osman b. They told 
Affan to go and ask about it. (on his way to Hazrat Osman) in a place called "Derec", Zayd b. He came across Thabit holding his hand and when he 
asked them about it, they both said: It has been forbidden to you, it has been forbidden to you. Shaybani, 555. 

1678-) Said b. It was narrated from al-Museyyeb:  Umm, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) 
He was Salama's Mukatabi. He divorced his free wife with two talaq. (When he wants to return again) Hazrat Uthman b. 
He asked Affan about his fatwa. He said: It has become unlawful for you. 
1679-) Muhammed b. Abraham b. It was narrated from al-Haris  at-Taymi:  Mukatebi Nüfey, Zayd b. He asked Sabite for a fatwa and said: I 
divorced my free wife with two talaqs (Can I return to her again?)» b. He said, “It has become unlawful for you”. 

1680-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. It was narrated that Umar said: If he divorces his wife with two talaqs, it will be haram for him, whether he is free 
or a concubine, until he marries and divorces another husband. The idda of a free woman is three, and that of a concubine is two.” 

1681-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar used to say: "If anyone allows his slave to marry, the right to divorce is in the hands of the slave. No one has the power to divorce him, even partially. a small man 
It is permissible for his son to take his concubine or his little daughter's 
concubine.” 1682-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a slave or a free man divorces his concubine's wives, and a slave divorces a free woman with talaq-i  bain, even if the woman is pregnant, if it is not possible for her to return to her wife, they are not required to pay alimony. 1683-) 
Imam-i  Malik says: It is not necessary for a free father to keep a wet nurse while his younger son is a slave of another tribe. It is not necessary for a slave to spend from his own property to someone who is in his master's property without his master's permission. 1684-) Omar b. Khattab said: "Any woman who lost her husband and does not know where he is, waits for four years, then waits for four months, 
ten days of idda, after which it is lawful to marry." 1685-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a woman marries after her iddah ends, her first husband cannot marry her, whether her husband is united or not. Malik says: This is the judgment for us. If the husband grows up before the 
woman is married, it is more worthy of marrying her. 1686-) Imam-i  Malik says: Some people like Umar b. The objections of al-Khattab  about the following fatwa were not tolerated by the scholars: "When the first husband comes, he can give his mahr if he wants, or he can have his wife if he wishes." 1687-) Imam-i  Malik says: When the husband is missing, he divorces his wife; then he returns to his wife; 
However, Hazrat Umar b. Khattab says: "Whether her second husband is united or not, the first husband has no right to return to her." Malik says: This is the most beautiful fatwa I have heard about those who are abroad and whose whereabouts are unknown. 
1688-) From Nafi: In the time of the Messenger of Allah, Abdullah b. Umar divorced his wife while she was menstruating, Umar b. Al-Khattab also asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about this issue. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) replied: "Tell him to return to his wife, then not to divorce until he is cleared of his menses, and until he becomes clean again, after (two menstruation) if he wishes, he can continue his marriage or divorce without approaching her. This is the waiting period of iddah, which Allah has made permissible to divorce women.” Bukhari, Talak, 68/1; Muslim, Talaq, 18/1; Shaybani, 554. 
1689-) Urve b. From az-Zubayr:  The mother of the believers, Hadrat Aisha, sent Hafsa, the daughter of Abdurrahman, son of Abu Bakr es-Siddiq  (who was waiting for iddah), when she started seeing blood in her third menstrual period (from her husband's house to her family). When this incident was told to Abdurrahman's daughter Amre, he was right, the scholars argued with Hadrat Aisha on this issue and they said: "Allah the Almighty said in his book, "Three Kurus." Upon this, Hadrat Aisha said: You are correct (but) Do you know what Kur'i is? Dry' (not menstruation) are states of cleanliness. 1690-) Ibn Shihab says: Abu Bakr b. I heard Abdurrahman say: "Everyone I met among our jurists would say what Hadrat Aisha said." 
1691-) Süleyman b. From Yesar: Ahvas died in Damascus while he was starting to menstruate his divorced wife (during his iddah) for the third time. Thereupon, Muawiya b. Abu Sufyan, Zeyd b. He wrote a letter to Sabit and asked about this issue. Zayd replied, "When his wife begins to menstruate, they get divorced, and they cannot inherit each other." 
1692-) Kasÿm b. Muhammed, Salim b. Abdullah, Abu Bakr b. Abdurrahman and Ibn Shihab used to say: "When a woman divorced with ric'î talak, she becomes void with talaq-i  bain when she enters her third menstrual period. Spouses cannot inherit from each other, and the husband cannot return to his wife.” 
1693-) From Nafi: Abdulah b. Omar used to say: When the husband divorces his wife and his wife starts to have her third menstrual period, they get divorced for sure. Malik says: In our opinion, this is the ruling. 1694-) Fudayl b. From Abi Abdullah: Kasÿm b. Muhammed and Salim b. Abdullah used to say: "If a woman gets divorced and starts to have the third menstrual period, it is permissible for her to marry another man with talaq-ÿ  bain." 1695-) Said b. al-Museyyeb,  Ibn Shihab and Sulayman b. Yesar used to say: "The iddah of a woman who gets her divorce by giving her property is three cleaning periods." 1696-) Ibn Shihab used to say, "The iddah of a divorced woman is three (three) periods of cleansing, even if it is long." 1697-) Yahya b. From Said: A woman asked her Ansar husband to divorce her. Her husband said, "Let me know when you see menstruation." When the woman saw menstruation, she informed her husband. (This time) her husband said, "Let me know when it's clean." When the woman was clean, he informed her, and her husband divorced her (while she was clean). Malik says: This is the most appropriate thing I have heard on this subject. 1698-) Kasÿm b. Muhammed and Süleyman b. From Yesâr: Yahya b. Said b. al-As,  Abdurrahman b. al-Hakam  divorced his daughter with talaq-i  bain, and his father Abdurrahman moved his daughter from the place where she had to wait for iddah, that is, to a place other than her home. Hadrat Aisha of Umm al-Mu'min,  the governor of Medina that day, Marvan b. He sent word to the referee and said: "Fear God, Marwan, bring him back to the house where he divorced." According to the narration of Solomon, Marwan said, "My brother Abdurrahman 
b. "I couldn't stop al-Hakam  from taking his daughter," he said. According to Qasim's narration, when Marwan said, "Don't you know, Kays's 
daughter Fatima had also left her husband's house, which she divorced before her period ended," Hadrat Aisha said: "Do not confuse 
Fatima's situation with this. (Because she was restless in her husband's house)" she said. 
Marwan replied: "If Fatima left her husband's house because she was uneasy, there was enough room among them. 

There is unrest," he said. Bukhari, Talaq, 68/41. 
1699-) From Nafi: Hazrat Osman's grandson Abdullah's divorced wife with talaq-i  bain, Ibn Nufayl's grandson Said's daughter (by not waiting for her iddad at her husband's house) moved. Abdullah b. Umar did not tolerate her husband moving out of his house before his iddah expired. 
1700-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar, his wife, the wife (brother) of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). 
Divorced in Hafsa's house. On his way to the masjid, his way was passing there. Until he returned to his wife, he did not like to ask permission, so he 
would take another road behind the houses. 
1701-) Yahya b. From Said: Upon divorcing a woman in a house her husband rented, Said b. To Musayyeb: Who will pay the rent for the house during 
the iddat period? he was asked. b. Musayyeb said: Her husband gives. Questioner: What if your husband has no money?” said. Said said: His wife 
gives it. The questioner said: If the wife does not have it either. Said said: The state gives. 

1702-) Fatima bint Kays said: My husband Abu Amr b. While Hafsa was in Damascus, she divorced me with three talaqs. He sent me barley, his 
deputy. I got angry with him too. He said to me: You have no right with us. I went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and explained 
the matter. The Messenger of Allah said: "It does not belong to your husband." He ordered me to wait for the iddah in Umm Sharik's house, then said: 
They come to Umm Sharik a lot (because she is a good woman). (They should not see you) you, Abdullah b. Wait for the iddah next to Ummi Maktum, 
because he is immature, you can take off your veil next to him and you can be free. Let me know when your iddah is over.” When my Idda was over, I 
asked the Messenger of Allah, Muayiye b. Ebi Sufyan and Ebû Cehm b. I told him that Hisham wanted to marry me. (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Abu 
Jahm does not let go of his staff (that is, he beats his wives a lot or travels a lot). Marry Zayd” he said. I did not want it, then the Messenger of Allah 
said: Usama b. They said, "Marry Zayd". I got married too. God made this marriage auspicious and I was happy with it. Muslim, Talaq, 18/6, no: 35; 
Shafii, Risale, no: 756. 1703-) Ibn Shihab says: A woman who gets divorced with three talaq does not leave her house until her iddah ends. She also 
has no right to receive alimony from her husband. However, if she becomes pregnant, her husband gives her alimony until she gives birth. Malik says: 
According to us, this is the ruling. 1704-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a slave divorces his wife, who is a concubine, and then the concubine is freed, her being 

freed does not change her iddah; Its iddah is the same as that of the concubine. Whether her husband has the right to return to her or not, her iddah is 
not like that of a free woman. 1705-) Imam-i  Malik says: The punishment of a slave who should be punished for a crime he committed while he was a 
slave is like this after he is freed. His punishment is slave punishment. 

1706-) A concubine divorced with three talaks by a free husband, and a free woman who divorced a slave with two talaks expect three menstrual periods. 1707-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person married to a concubine later buys her and frees her, this concubine waits for two menstrual periods unless they unite. A menstruation istibra (waiting) is required for the concubine, with whom he is united, before freeing him after purchasing. 1708-) Umar b. al-Khattab  says: "A woman who gets divorced and starts not having a period after one or two menstruation waits for nine months. If it is found that she is pregnant, her iddah ends when she gives birth to a child. If she is not pregnant, she waits for three more months after nine months, then her iddat ends and she can marry someone else.” In the 611th school of Shaybani, the iddah of a woman who has stopped menstruation is only three months. If her husband is dead, she waits for four months and ten days. If this woman menstruates again before her iddah ends, she starts waiting for iddah again based on her menstrual period. If a woman who is waiting for one or two menstruation periods does not have a menstrual period, she waits for the period again on the basis of the month. 
1709-) Said b. Musayyeb used to say: "The power to divorce belongs to the man, and to wait for the iddah belongs to the woman." 1710-) Said b. Musayyeb says: "The iddah of a woman who bleeds constantly due to her illness is one year." 1711-) Imam-i  Malik says: A woman who has stopped menstruating when her husband divorces waits for nine months of iddah. If he has a menstrual period before completing these three months, he starts waiting for iddah again based on menstruation. After seeing her first menstruation, the second nine months pass before she starts menstruating again, then if she gets a second period before she completes it while she waits for three months, she starts waiting for iddah again on the basis of menstruation. If the third nine months pass (after the second menstruation is completed) without seeing the third menstruation, and the third menstruation occurs while waiting for three more months, the period of menstruation will be completed. If she does not menstruate, she waits another three months, then it is lawful for her to marry. Except for the talaq-i  traitor (according to the above principles), the husband has the right to return to his wife before his iddah expires. 1712-) Imam-i  Malik says: Our sunnah is as follows: A person has divorced his wife by ric'î talak and he has the right to return only once. While his wife was waiting for the iddat, he returned to her and divorced her again without reuniting. In this case, the woman does not add the iddah she will expect to the iddah she expected before, and she begins to wait for the iddah again as of the last divorce. The man has wronged himself and made a mistake. He cannot return to his wife even if he wanted to. 1713-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a disbeliever husband whose wife has converted to Islam, becomes a Muslim later on, the iddah 
While he is waiting, he can return to his wife, when his iddah ends, he can no longer return to her, if he wants to marry her (according to Islamic standards) after his iddah expires, his marriage is not considered talaq because Islam has invalidated the previous marriage. 
1714-) Ali b. Abi Talib said, "If you fear the discord between husband and wife, send an arbitrator from both the male and female sides. If the arbitrators want to make peace between them, Allah (celle celâlüh) ordains the best between the husband and wife. Surely, Allah knows everything and is aware of everything.” Nisa says about the two referees in verse 4/41-35: "The referees have the authority to separate or unite the husband and wife." 1715-) Imam-i  Malik says: The words of the two referees about the union or separation of the 
husband and wife are valid. This is the most appropriate thing I have heard from scholars. 1716-) Omar b. al-Khattab,  Abdullah b. Umar, 
Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Salim b. Abdullah, Kasÿm b. Muhammad, Ibn Shihab and Sulayman b. Yesar used to say: "If a person who has sworn to divorce the woman he will marry breaks his oath, he must divorce her when he marries." 
1717-) Abdullah b. Mas'ud says about a person who says, "Let every woman I marry be null": "If a certain tribe or a certain woman does not say her name, nothing is necessary." it happens. (Merginani, Hidaye, vol.1, p. 250). Malik says: This is the best thing I've heard. 
1718-) Karÿsÿna «Sen boÿsun, evlendiÿim her kadÿn boÿ olsun, ÿöyle ÿöyle yapmazsam malÿm sadaka olsun» diyen ve yeminini bozan bir kiÿi hakkÿnda da Malik der ki: Evli bulunduÿu kadÿnlar boÿ olur, belli bir kadÿn, kabile, yer vs. They don't have to be empty, since every woman I marry is empty without saying it, he can marry the woman he wants. He gives as charity a third of his wealth. 
1719-) Said b. al-Museyyeb  says: "A husband who marries a woman and is unable to have sexual relations is given a one-year  respite. If it can unite (within a year), great. If he can't, they're separated from each other." Shaybani, 548, 539 1720-) Malik asked Ibn Shihab: Is the man's respite given from the day he enters puberty or from the day the woman puts him in court?» Ibn Shihab said: From the day he 
gave it to the court. 1721-) Imam-i  Malik says: I have not heard of a respite given to a person whose wife had united before and then became unable to unite. This husband and wife are inseparable. 1722-) It was reported to Ibn Shihab: A person from the tribe of Sakif, 
Gaylan b. He is Salama as-Sakafi.  He had ten wives when he became a Muslim. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to her: "Leave four wives and divorce the others." Ibn Abdulber says; This is how most of the narrators of Muwatta and Ibn Shihab 
reported: Tirmidhi, 9-Marriage, 33; Ibn Mace, 9 -Marriage, 40. 1723-) Ömer b. Khattab says: "A woman does not return to her husband after her husband divorces her with one or two talaq, and if the woman finally marries someone else, who dies or divorces herself, her first husband can marry that woman again. In this case, he will have as many talaks as he has left.” According to the Hanafi school, he can have three talaqs. (Merginani, c.2, p.11). Malik says: In our opinion, the exercise is like this unanimously. 
1724-) Fixed b. al-Ahnaf  says: I, Zayd b. I married an Umm Veledi of Abdurrahman, son of al-Khattab.  Zayd b. Abdullah, son of Abdurrahman, son of al-Khattab,  called me to him. I went. What do I see when I walk in? There is a whip, two ironskins, and two slaves he has prepared for me. He said: “Fuse him! Otherwise, I swear to God that I will do such and such to you.” Thereupon, I said: "May it be empty with a thousand talaq" and left him. On the way to Mecca, Abdullah b. I caught up with Ömer and told him what had happened to me. Abdullah got angry and said: This is not considered a talaq because you have difficulty, your wife is halal for you. You can return to him, I did not feel comfortable. In those days, Abdullah b. I went to Zubayr. What I went through and Abdullah b. I told him what Omer told me. He said to me, "Your wife is halal for you, return to her" and the governor of Medina, Jabir b. al Esved ez-Zuhri'ye  Abdullah b. He wrote to punish Abdurrahman and release my wife with me. 
When he returned to Medina, Abdullah b. With Ömer's permission, his wife, Safiyya, prepared my wife for nuptials. Then Abdullah b. On Ömer's wedding day, I invited him to dinner. He also came (to dinner by accepting my invitation). According to Abu Hanifa, talaq of mukrehin (the person forced to divorce) occurs. Nahai and Sha'bi are of the same opinion. Said b. There is a similar narration from al-Museyyeb.  Malikis are based on the following hadith of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam): "Failure does not occur in the face of force." According to this hadith, the talaq of a person who is forced to divorce his wife (like the talaq given by a madman) is not valid. Abdullah b. Umar, Abdullah b. ez-Zubeyr,  Ömer b. Khattab, Ali b. Abi Talib, Ibn Abbas and Umar b. Abdulaziz gave a fatwa saying that a person in this situation will not have a talaq. According to Shafi'i, this is the case. Munteka c. 4 s. 124). 
1725-) Abdullah b. Dinar says: I am Abdullah b. I heard Umar adding the word "kubul" to the word "liydadhinna" and reciting the verse as "O Prophet, when you divorce your wives, divorce them during iddah" Talaq: 1 Malik says: Abdullah b. With this recitation, Omar meant that the husband should divorce his wife with a talaq every time he cleaned. 
1726-) From Urwa: (Before Islam) if a man divorced his wife and wanted to return to her before his iddah expired, 
If he divorced even with talaq, he could return to his wife. (At that time) a man divorced his wife (with the intention of wrongdoing), and when the end of his iddat was approaching, he returned to her. Then he divorced again. Then he said: "By Allah, I will prevent you from returning to me. When the end of your iddat is approaching, you will not be able to marry another husband, since your iddat will be prolonged by turning to you and divorcing again.” Thereupon, the Almighty Allah revealed the following verse: “Divorce (which can be returned to the life of husband and wife after its occurrence) is twice. (Then the husband turns to his wife) stays married for good, or leaves her free to marry whomever he chooses.” Al-Baqara:  2/229 Thereupon, everyone who divorced his wife and did not divorce her from that day on, left their old customs and acted on the command of Allah. This hadith is mursal. Also, for its narration as a seasoned see. Tirmidhi; 11 Talak, 16 1727-) Sevr b. In Zayd ed-Dîlî:  (Before Islam), a person would divorce his wife, would not want to stay married to her because he did not need her, but would return to her (just) to harm her by prolonging his idda. Thereupon, Allah Almighty said, "Do not go to extremes with the intention of harming women, and whoever does this will expose himself to torment." Baccarat: He commanded 2/231. So God was advising them. 
1728-) Said b. al-Museyyeb  and Süleyman b. Yesar was asked about the verdict of the talaq given by the drunk. And they said: “If a drunkard gets divorced, his talaq will happen. If he kills, he will be killed as retaliation.” Malik says: This is how we think the rule is. If a drunkard divorces his wife, talaq will occur, and if he kills someone unjustly, he will be killed as retaliation. Umar b. al-Khattab,  Ali b. This is the view of Abi Talib, Nahai, Sha'bi, Ibn Sirin and the majority of the fuqaha. Imam Malik, Abu Hanife, Evzai and Sevri are also of this opinion. Imam Shafii has two views on this issue: 1729-) Said b. Musayyeb used to say: If a man is unable to feed his wife, they separate. Malik says: This is also the opinion of the Madinah scholars, whom I was educated with. 
1730-) Abdullah b. Abbas and Abu Hurayra were asked about the iddat of a pregnant woman whose husband had died. Ibn Abbas said: “One of the two iddas is four months and ten days for a woman whose husband died. The second is the Iddat of the pregnant woman, until she gives birth to her child. Whichever of these two iddah is longer is valid. It is permissible for her to marry another husband as long as the rest.” said. Thereupon, Abu Salama b. Abdurrahman went to Umm Salama, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and asked her about this issue. Umm Salama said: Subay'a al-Aslamiyye  gave birth fifteen days after her husband died. Two people, one young and the other old, wanted to marry him. The woman's heart inclined towards the young. The old man said: “Your iddah is not over yet.” The old man's family was traveling. When he returned, he preceded the others and begged them to take him to him. Thereupon, the woman came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and wanted to learn about the situation, and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Your idda is over, you can get married. Marry whoever you want” he said. Nesai, 27-Talaq, 56. 1731-) Abdullah b. They asked Umar about the iddah of the pregnant woman whose husband had died. Abdullah b. 'Umar said, "When she gives birth to her child, her iddah ends, her marriage is permissible." One of the Ansar, Abdullah b. Umar, Umar b. He said that al-Khattab  said: "If (a woman) gives birth while her husband is still in bed and without being buried, her iddah ends and her marriage is 
lawful." 1732-) al-Misver  b. From Mahreme: Sübey'a al-Aslemiyye  gave birth a few nights after her husband died. 
The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him: "Your idda is over, it is permissible to marry, marry whomever you want." he commanded. Bukhari, Talaq, 68/39. 1733-) Süleyman b. From Yesar: Abdullah b. Abbas and Abdurrahman b. Awf's son, Abu Salama, disagreed about the iddat of the woman who gave birth a few nights after her husband's death. Abu Salama said, "When she gives birth, her iddah ends." Ibn 'Abbas said, 'He waits for the duration of the two iddah after the rest'. Abu Hurayra came and "I agree with my uncle's son," he said, referring to Salama. Thereupon, Abdullah b. They sent Abbas' slave Qurayb to Umm Salama, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) to settle this issue. When Qurayb returned, he reported that Umm Salamah had said to them: When Subay'a al-Aslamiyye  gave birth a few nights after her husband's death, she told the Messenger of Allah about the matter. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Your iddah is over. Marry whoever you want” he said. Nesai, Talak, 27/56. b. For Said's narration, see. There are other narrations in Müsim, Talak, 18/8, no: 57 and in the books of Muslim and Sunan. Malik says: Our scholars still hold this view. 1734-) Abu Said al-Khudri's  sister, Malik b. The husband of Sinan's daughter, al-Fureya,  went to capture his escaped slaves, and when "Kadum" caught up with them by the name of a place six miles from Medina, his slaves killed him. Füreya went to the Messenger of Allah to ask her if she could return to her family among the sons of Hudre. He describes it this way: Since my husband did not leave me a house and alimony that he owned, I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) if I could return to my family of the sons of Hudre (to wait for my idda). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Yes (you can go to your family)". When you returned and entered the room, you said that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) called me (or ordered me, they called me)?» he commanded. I repeated the story of my husband that I had told him. He said, 'Wait in your own house until your prescribed iddah ends'. So I waited at home for four months and ten days. Hazrat Usman b. When Affan also sent word and asked me about this issue, I told him exactly. He also ruled accordingly. 
Abu Dawud, Talâk, 13/44; Tirmizî, Talâk, 11/23; Nesaî, Talâk, 27/60; Shafi'i, Risale, no: 121. 
1735-) Said b. From al-Museyyeb:  Omar b. al-Khattab  used to turn away women whose husbands died (and who went on pilgrimage during iddah) from the neighborhood called al-Bayda,  and prevented them from making pilgrimage. 
1736-) Yahya b. Said was narrated. Habban's son Saib died. His wife, Abdullah b. She came to Ömer and said that her husband had died 
and that she had a cultivated field in a place called Kanat, and asked if it would be right for her to spend the night there. Thereupon, 
Abdullah b. Ömer did not allow him to stay there. For this reason, the woman would leave Medina in the morning, arrive in the field in the 
morning, stay there all day, then come to Medina in the evening and spend the night at home. ÿeybanî, 583 1737-) Hisham b. Urwa said 
about a woman whose husband died and who lived in the desert: "He goes down where his family descended." Imam-i  Malik says: This is 
the situation (fatwa) with us. 

1738-) Abdullah b. Omar says: The woman whose husband died and got divorced with three talaks (while waiting for idda) spent the night 
in a place other than her house, 1739-) Kasÿm b. Muhammad says: Yazid b. Abdulmalik separated the women who got married after their 
master died and they waited for one or two menstruation periods, even though they were ummu-wives,  from their husbands for four months 
and ten days. al-Qasim  b. Mohammed: "Subhanallah! Allah says in his book "Those of you who died and left their wives" 

(Baqara, 2/234) commands. These are not the women mentioned in the verse," he said. 
1740-) Abdullah b. Umar said: The iddah of Umm Veled, whose master has died, is a menstruation. 
1741-) Again Kasÿm b. Muhammad used to say: The iddah of Umm Walad, whose master died, is a menstruation. Malik says: In our opinion, 
this is the ruling. 1742-) Imam-i  Malik says: If Umm Walad is a non-menstruating  person, her iddah is three months. Shaybani, 596. If the 
master of Veled dies or is freed, his iddah is three menstruation according to the Hanafi school. If she is not menstruating, it is three months. 

(Merginani, Hidaye, v.2, p. 29) 
1743-) Said b. Müseyyeb and Süleyman b. Yesar says: The iddah of a concubine whose husband died is two months and five days. 
1744-) Ibn Shihab also narrated a similar one. 1745-) Imam-i  Malik says about a slave who divorces the concubine with ric'î talak and 
has the right to return, and then dies while his divorced wife is waiting for iddah: Like the iddat of a deceased concubine, her husband 
waits for iddah for two months and five days. If this concubine is freed while her husband has the right to return, while she waits for her 
husband's divorce after being freed, if she does not want to leave him until her husband's death, her husband waits for four months and 
ten days, equal to the idda of a free woman who died. The reason for this ruling is that the iddah of death occurred after liberation. For this 
reason, her iddah is the same as that of a free woman. Malik says: In our opinion, this is the rule. 1746-) Ibn Muhayriz said: I entered the 
mosque, saw Abu Said al-Khudri,  sat next to him and asked him about his dismissal. Thereupon, Abu Said al-Khudri  said: 

We went to the battle of Mustalik, we took concubines from Arab captives. We wanted to be in contact with them, we were far 
from our family. (However, we wanted to impeach them because we were afraid that they would get pregnant, so we could become 
Umm Veled and not be able to sell them). While the Messenger of Allah was with us, we asked him (we said) instead of dismissing him 
without asking him. “There is nothing wrong with impeachment. Until the Day of Judgment, those whose birth is ordained will be born.” he 
commanded. Buhari, Itk, 49/13; Muslim, Nikah, 16/21, no: 125. 
1747-) Sa'd b. According to what is reported from Abi Waqqas, he was impeachment. Shaybani, 548 1748-) 
Umm Veledi (concubine with children) of Abu Ayyub al-Ansari  said: "Ebû Ayyub al-Ansari  used to impeach." ÿeybanî, 549 1749-) From 
Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar did not impeach and he did not like dismissal. 

1750-) Amr b. Al-Hajjaj,  son of Ghazi, told: I, Zayd b. While sitting next to Sabit, Yemeni Ibn Kahd, Zayd b. He came to Sabit and said to 
him: O Abu Said, I have concubines with me, my wives that I took with me do not appeal to me from them. I don't want them all to get 
pregnant with me either. Can I impeach?» 
Zayd b. Thabit (to me): You give him a fatwa, Hajjaj!» said. God bless you; We are sitting next to you to learn (something) from you,” I said. 
He said again: You give the fatwa. Me too: It is the field where you will plant children. You either water it or leave it without water. I heard 
this from Zayd,” I said. That's right," he said. Shaybani, 550 1751-) A man named Zefif said: Ibn Abbas was asked about his dismissal. 
Then he called his concubine and said: Tell them. When the concubine also seemed embarrassed, she said: "You can do it" (meaning that 
she was also impeached) "I'm doing it too". 1752-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person can only be dismissed by obtaining the permission of his free 
wife. There is no harm in dismissing him in relation to his concubine without permission. A person married to the concubine of others can 
only be dismissed with their permission. 

1753-) Zeynep, the daughter of Abu Salama, from Humayd b. I told Nafi (and) these three hadiths: His father, Abu Sufyan b. When Harb died, I went to Umm Habiba, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Umm Habiba asked for the box called Sufre and haluk or other scents in it and rubbed it on the concubine (then rubbed it on their faces). Then by God, I don't need fragrance, but the Messenger of Allah I heard him (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “It is not permissible for a woman who believes in Allah and the Day of Judgment not to adorn herself for more than three nights because of the death of a person. However, due to the death of her husband, a woman leaves the adornment for four months and ten days.” 1754-) Zeynep says: Then, when her brother died, I went to Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the daughter of Jahsh, the wife of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). He wanted her scent and crawled away from it. Then I don't need fragrance, but I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: It is not permissible for a woman who believes in Allah and the Day of Judgment to abandon adorning for more than three days because of a dead person, but because of her husband's death. cannot be adorned for four months and ten days, 
1755-) Zeynep says: I heard my mother, Umm Salama, who was the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) saying: A woman came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) and said: "My daughter's husband has died. is it?» said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said "no" two or three times. After saying "no" to all of them, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "The period of iddah (continues) is four months and ten days. Humayd's son says: What is the purpose of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) when he said to Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anha) that “he used to throw dung from camels or sheep until the beginning of the year”? said. Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said: When her husband died, the woman would enter a bad house and wear her worst dress, and she would not use perfume or anything like that until a year passed after her husband's death, she would not wash her nails or cut her nails. Then, as was the custom at that time, an animal such as a donkey, sheep and bird was brought, touched and washed. It would be cleaned, and its nails would have grown long enough to kill whatever it touched. Then he would come out, give him a dung, and he would throw it away. Thus, his iddah would have ended. He could use scents and the like. Bukhari, Talak, 68/46; Muslim, Talaq, 18/9, no: 58. 
1756-) Aisha and Hafsa, the wives of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), said: "A woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day will not mourn for more than three days after the death of anyone other than her husband." Muslim, Talaq, 18/9, no: 63; Shaybani, 590. 
1757-) Umm Salama, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to the woman, who did not dress up because of her husband's death and was severely disturbed by her eyes: Pull on the kohl at night and wipe it off during the day.' 
1758-) Salim b. Abdullah and Süleyman b. Yesar, about the woman whose husband died: "If he is afraid that his eye will hurt, he can apply medicine to his eye, even if it has a smell, or apply rue." 1759-) Imam-i  Malik says: If there is a necessity (an impermissible thing is permissible), Allah's religion is easy. 1760-) From Nafi: Abu Ubayd's daughter Safiyya, her husband Abdullah b. While he was mourning Omar's death, his eyes were disturbed. Shaybani, 589 1761-) Imam-i  Malik says: A woman whose husband dies uses oil and similar things that have no odor during the period of iddah. 
it can crawl. 
1762-) Imam-i  Malik says: He cannot wear rings, anklets and other adornments, and he cannot wear beautiful, light-colored  and patterned clothes. He only washes his head for the purpose of cleaning and washes and combs it with similar things that have no dye. 1763-) It was reported to Malik: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went to Umm Salama, who had abandoned adorning because of her father's death. Patience, a bitter medicine, was applied to his eyes. "What's this? Oh Umm Salama!” she asked. Sabir, O Messenger of Allah!” he replied. And (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Pull it at night and erase it during the day.” Abu Dawud, Talaq, 13/44; Nesai, Talak, 27/16. 1764-) Imam-i  Malik says: A girl who has not reached puberty yet and whose husband has died also abandons adorning like a woman who has reached puberty. 
1765-) Imam-i  Malik says: A concubine whose husband dies does not adorn herself during her iddah, which is two months and five days. 1766-) Imam-i  Malik says: Umm Veled, whose master died, and a concubine can be adorned. Abandoning adornment is only necessary for women who are bound by marriage. 1767-) Umm Salama, the wife of the Messenger of Allah, used to say: "A woman in mourning for her husband washes her head with olive oil and sidr (used instead of soap)." 1768-) Abdurrahman's daughter Amre narrated as follows: Aisha, the mother of the believers, said to me: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was with me. I heard the voice of a man asking permission to enter Hafsa's house and said, "O Messenger of Allah, this man is asking permission to enter your house." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I think that man is Hafsa's foster uncle or something. I said: O Messenger of Allah, if my foster uncle was alive, could he have entered me freely?' said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Yes, he could enter, because everything that lineage makes forbidden, sucking also makes it forbidden.” Bukhari, Shahadat, 52/7; Muslim, Radâ, 17/1, no:1. he commanded. One of the obstacles that makes marriage haram is breastfeeding. This is fixed in the Qur'an and Sunnah. While those who are forbidden to marry are listed in the Qur'an: "...It is forbidden for you to marry your nurses and nurses who are breastfeeding you." (Nisa: 23) is commanded. The hadiths related to the subject will also be seen in this section. 1769-) Hazrat Aisha (radiyallahu anh) says: My uncle milk came to me and asked for permission to enter me. Me too 
I hesitated to allow him until I asked the Messenger of Allah. When the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) came, I 
asked him about it. He said: He is your uncle, let him come in with you. He said, "O Messenger of Allah, the woman breastfed 
me, but the man did not." He said: He is your uncle, let him come with you. Aisha said: "This incident happened after the verse 
about the veil was revealed." Hadrat Aisha says: "What is haram due to birth (lineage) is also haram due to sucking." Bukhari, 
Nikah, 67/117; Muslim, Radâ, 17/2, no: 7; Shaybani, 617. 
1770-) Urve b. Zubayr narrated that Hadrat Aisha said: After the verse about covering was revealed, Eflâh, the brother of my 
foster uncle Abu Quays, came and asked permission to enter my room. I refused to allow it. When the Messenger of Allah came, 
I told him what I had done. Thereupon, my foster uncle ordered me to let Eflâh enter me. Bukhari, Nikah, 67/22; Muslim, Rada, 
17/2, no:3. 
1771-) Abdullah b. Abbas used to say: "Amse (marriage) is forbidden once a child reaches the age of two." 
1772-) Abdullah b. To Abbas: A man had two wives. One of them breastfed a boy and the other a girl. Now can this young 
man marry the girl?" When asked: No, they cannot get married. Because the man who causes the milk of those two women is 
one.” Tirmidhi, 10-Rada,  2 1773-) Abdullah b. Ömer: "The elder's suckling is not valid. However, he would say, "The one who is 
breastfed at a young age is valid". Shaybani, 615. 

1774-) Abdullah b. Omar's son Salim says: The mother of the believers, Aisha (radiyallahu anh), sent me to Umm Kulthum, the 
daughter of her sister Abu Bakr, when I was at the breast and said to her: "Breastfeed this child ten times so that she can come 
to me when she grows up." But Umm Kulthum only got sick after breastfeeding me three times. She did not breastfeed again. 
Since Umm Kulthum did not breastfeed me ten times, I did not go to Hadrat Aisha (without her mahram). In chapter 623, Shaybani 
said that the fuqaha makes marriage forbidden only ten times. Shafii said that sucking five times makes the marriage haram. 
Hanife and Imam-i  Malik did not limit the amount of suckling, they said that less or more of it, even once, makes it haram. (Ibn 
Rushd, Bidayetü'l-Muctehid,  volume 2, p.38) Ahmed b. 
The famous view of Hanbal is like that of Hanafis. (Bezlü'l-Mechud,  vol.10, p. 43) 
1775-) Hazrat Umar's daughter Hafsa, mother of the believers, Abdullah b. Sa'd's son Asim sent his sister Fatima to breastfeed 
ten times so that she could join him when she grew up. She also breastfed. When Asÿm grew up, he would freely enter Hafsa's 
side. (Because Hafsa became Asÿm's foster aunt.) ÿeybanî, 624. 

1776-) Abdurrahman narrates from his father Kasÿm: The milk sons of his sisters and the milk sons of his brothers' daughters 
used to go to Hadrat Aisha. But men who were breastfed by their brothers' wives would not enter. ÿeybani, 618. 1777-) ÿbrahim b. 
Ukbe says: Said b. When I asked Musayyeb about the ruling on sucking, Said said: "Sucking that takes place in two years makes 
marriage unlawful, even if it is a drop. But sucking after two years is like the food that the child eats. (It does not make marriage 
haram)" he said. Then Urwa b. I asked Zubayr and he was the same as Said b. He repeated what Musayyeb had said. Shaybani, 

620. 
1778-) Yahya b. Said says; Said b. I heard Musayyeb say: “However, if the child in the cradle (sucking age) suckles, who makes meat and blood, that is, food for the child, once the child sucks, it becomes food. Accordingly, the opinion of those who say that a child's suckling once also renders the marriage haram is valid. suction is credible.” Shaybani, 628. (Otherwise, it is not valid for an adult to suckle.) 1779-) Ibn Shihab used to say: A little or a lot of suckling makes it haram. The prohibition of suckling, milk also passes to the father's side. 1780-) Imam-i  Malik says: A little or a lot of breastfeeding within two years makes the marriage haram. As for suckling after two years, neither a little or a lot of it makes anything haram. It's just like a meal. 
(Just as food does not make it haram, so is it). According to Imam-i  Malik, Imam Shafii and Imam Muhammad and Abu Yusuf, the period of abstinence that makes marriage forbidden is two years, and according to Abu Hanifah, it is two and a half years (thirty months). (Ibn Rushd, Bidayetü'l-Mujtehid  v.2 p.31; Meydan, al-Lubâb  fî ÿerh'il-Kitâb  v. 3, p. 31). 1781-) When Ibn Shihab was asked about the ruling on suckling by an elder, he said, Urve b. Zubayr informed me and said: "One of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah, Abu Huzayfa b. Utba b. Rabia, the Messenger of Allah's Zayd b. As he adopted Harise as a son, he adopted and married his freedman Salim. He saw him as his son. He married his brother Velidin's daughter Fatima. Fatima was one of the most distinguished young girls of Quraysh and was one of the first to migrate. Allâhu ta’âlâ, Zayd b. About Harise: “Call them (your sons) by the name of their father. This is more true in the sight of Allah. If you do not know their father, they are your brothers and friends in religion.” Ahzab: 5. When the verse was revealed, these sonships were given to their fathers. If their father is unknown, it was given to their parents. At that time, Abu Huzeyfe's wife Amir b. Sehle, daughter of Süheyl, who was a member of the Lüey tribe, came to the Messenger of Allah and said: O Prophet of Allah, we regarded Sâlim as our child. He was free to come and go with us. My head is clear. There is only one room in our house. What would you say about Salim? Can he stay with us?" He said, The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Nurse him five times, and you will have a baby boy.” (It is permissible to go in and out of him.) He said. Sehle did as she said. Thus, Salimi regarded him as a foster son. Hazrat Aisha wanted her to join him. 
would impose this judgment on anyone. She used to order her sister Umm Kulthum and her brothers' daughters to breastfeed the men she wished to take with her. But the other wives of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) would not accept anyone with this sucking and said: "No, we swear by Allah that the order of the Messenger of Allah to Sahle is only a license for Salim to suckle. (It would not be right for others to apply this decree.) No, we swear by Allah that no one can enter us with this suction.» they would say. Ibn Abdilber says: This is a hadith that is in the musnada (i.e. mawsul type). Because Urwa met Hadrat Aisha and the other wives of the Messenger of Allah. Muslim, 17 -Rada, 7; no: 26-28, 29-31; Shaybani, 627. Sehle's breast-feeding  of Sâlim was when she pumped milk from her breast and made Salim drink it. Otherwise, it is not permissible for a foreign man to touch or even look at a foreign woman's breast, let alone suck it. With this hadith, we see that Hadrat Aisha acted, the other wives of the Messenger of Allah did not act, and they accepted this as a decree of the Messenger of Allah peculiar to Salim. We have previously noted that the period of absorption is two years according to the Imameyn from Malikis, Shafiis and Hanafis, and thirty months according to Abu Hanifa. 
1782-) Abdullah b. Dinar says: A man asked Abdullah b. He came to Omer. I was with him in Dar'ul-Kaza  (in Madinah). When Abdullah listened to the question, he conveyed the following fatwa: "A man, my father, Umar b. He came to Khattab: I had a concubine. I was in sexual relations with him. My wife (who went to avoid it) breastfed her. Later, when I wanted to go to the concubine, my wife said: Don't come near her, I breastfed that concubine. (What should I do now?)", Hazrat Umar said: "Redeem your wife and approach your concubine. Because the sucking that makes marriage haram is the sucking of the younger. he fatwa. Shaybani, 626. 
1783-) Yahya b. From Said: A man asked Abu Musa al-Ashari:  "I sucked my wife's breast. Abu Musa: According to me, that woman is forbidden to you.” When Abdullah b. Mas'ud said: "Be careful how you give the man a fatwa." Abu Musa: "What do you think about this?" When he said that, Ibn Mas'ud said: "The suction will only happen in two years." Thereupon, Abu Musa said: Do not ask me anything while this great scholar is among you. said. Omar says: It is a gruesome hadith, but in various ways. 
is continuous. 1784-) From Hadrat Aisha, the mother of the believers: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Those who are haram by birth (lineage) are also haram by suckling. Tirmidhi, Rada, 10/1; Shaybani, 617 1785-) Hadrat Aisha said that Cüdame, the daughter of Wahb, informed me that she heard the following from the Messenger of Allah: I wanted to prohibit sexual intercourse with lactating women. But I remembered that the Greeks and Persians did this and did not harm their children (and I gave up). Muslim, Nikah, 16/23, no: 140-142. 1786-) Hadrat Aisha narrated the following: "There were ten suckles that made marriage haram among what was revealed in the Qur'an. Then these five were abrogated by certain sucking. The Messenger of Allah passed away while these were recited from the Qur'an (by some people who did not receive the news of naskh). Muslim, Radâ, 17/6, no: 24; Shaybani, 625. says: The abrogation of ten sucklings with five sucking is too late. Even when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) died, those who did not receive the news of abrogation were reciting it from the Qur'an. When they received the news of naskh, they stopped reading it. Let us immediately point out that there are three types of naskh: "five sucking" whose recitation and recitation are abandoned, like "ten sucking", whose recitation is abandoned and its ruling remains. Some of the ulama accepted this ruling. According to the majority of the people, sucking once also makes the marriage haram, and the provision "Dying the old man and woman who commit adultery" is such an abrogation. Just like the verses whose rule is abrogated and recitation is left. There are many examples of this in the Qur'an. (Tekmiletü'l-Manhel  v.3, p.201,202). Malik says: This hadith cannot be acted upon. 
1787-) Amr b. Shuayb narrates from his grandfather through his father: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade shopping with a deposit." he said. 1788-) Imam-i  Malik says; With Allahu a'lam, shopping would be like this.' Kaparo said, "I will give you a dirham—or  less or more—to  buy this thing I bought, or ride on the animal I rented," said the caper, when someone bought a slave or concubine, or hired an animal, and then to the owner, that is, to the seller or renter. If I buy the property or rent the animal, I will deduct the deposit I gave, and if I give up buying the animal or the property or renting the animal, the deposit will be yours, which is false. 1789-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our practice, it is permissible to buy a Natikali, well-spoken,  commercially capable, farsighted and knowledgeable slave in exchange for two or more slaves who are not at the same level. If the difference between them is too small to be known (due to the possibility of interest), it is not permissible to buy and sell a slave to more than one slave on a deferred basis. 1790-) Imam-i  Malik says: You can sell something you bought by paying the price in cash to someone else without taking delivery of it. 1791-) Imam-i  Malik says: When a pregnant concubine is sold, it is not correct to exclude the fetus in her womb from the contract. Because this is an unknown and fraudulent sale: It is not known whether the fetus will be male or female, beautiful or ugly, complete, incomplete, alive or dead. These decrease the value of the concubine. 
1792-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is permissible if someone buys a slave or concubine for a hundred dinars on loan, and then the seller regretfully offers to the customer to pay ten dinars in cash or in the future to break the bargain, and to cancel the debt of one hundred dinars. But if the customer regrets it and offers to pay the seller ten dinars more than their price, in cash or in deferred payment, in order to break the bargain, in order to pay the slave or concubine at a later term than the one he bought, this is not true. Imam Malik deems this disgraceful. Because in this case, it is as if the seller sold his hundred dinars with a maturity of one year before the time comes, in exchange for a concubine and ten dinars in cash or with a maturity of more than one year. This provision also includes the future sale of gold in exchange for gold. 1793-) Imam-i  Malik says: If someone sells a 
concubine to a man for a hundred dinars on loan and then buys the same concubine at a more expensive price than the person to whom he sold it at a later date, this is not true. The reason for this is that he buys back the concubine, which he sold with a certain maturity, with a longer maturity than him. For, when he buys back the concubine, which he sold for thirty dinars with a one-month  maturity, for sixty dinars with a maturity of six months or one year, it would be like returning the goods he sold for thirty dinars with a maturity of thirty dinars back to him for sixty dinars with a maturity of one year or six months. This is not lawful. 1794-) Omar b. Khattab: "Whoever sells a slave who has property, this property belongs to the seller. However, if the customer 
also stipulates his property (while buying the slave), then it becomes the customer'. Bukhari, Shurb, 42/17; Muslim, Buyu, 21/15, no: 80; Shaybani, 793. 1795-) Imam-i  Malik says: The view we are allied with is this: If the customer agrees to buy the goods of the seller and the slave, it is permissible. It doesn't matter whether this property is money, receivables or belongings with the 
slave, whether the amount is known or not, even if the slave's property is above his own price, whether the price of the slave is cash, deferred or goods. Because there is no zakat debt on the property of the slave that his master has to pay. If she has a concubine, it is halal for the customer to have her and to have sexual relations with the concubine. If he regains his freedom or becomes a slave, his property will also belong to him. If the slave goes bankrupt, the debtors can take the slave's property. The master is in no way responsible for the debt of the slave. 
1796-) Abdullah b. Abi Bakr b. Muhammed b. Hazm narrates: "In their sermons, Eban son of Osman and Hisham son of Ismail talked about the responsibilities of the slave and concubine within three days from the moment they were bought, and their responsibilities during the year." 1797-) Imam-i  Malik says: The responsibility of the misfortune that will befall the slave and concubine belongs to the seller within three days from the moment of sale. (The customer has the right to refuse.) There is also a responsibility that continues for a year. This view was shared by the jurists of Medina and Said b. It is the view of Müseyyeb and Zuhri, and Imam-i  Malik also adopted this view. Ahmed b. Hanbal did not accept this, saying that the hadith is weak. Imam Shafii also does not accept the responsibility of the seller for three days and one year (Sehârenfuri, Bezlül-Mechûd,  volume 15, p.183). These are: insanity, leprosy, and baras (chicken) disease. If one year is complete, the seller is relieved of all liability. 
1798-) Imam-i  Malik says: Whoever sells an inherited or another slave or concubine on condition of acquittal (that is, on the condition that he does not accept responsibility for any faults or faults in them), then he is liable for any defect. it is not possible. However, if there is a shame he knows and he has hidden it, then he will be responsible. His acquittal is of no use to him. The contract of sale is broken, the slave is returned to him. This responsibility, in our opinion, exists only in the sale of slaves. 
1799-) Salim b. From Abdullah: Abdullah b. Umar sold one of his slaves for eight hundred dirhams on the condition of acquittal. Customer, Abdullah b. He said to Omar: The slave is sick, you didn't tell me that. Unable to agree on this, Osman b. They were judged in the presence of Affan. The customer said: Abdullah sold me a sick slave, he did not tell me about his illness. When Abdullah said: "I sold the slave by acquittal", Osman b. Affan offered Abdullah an oath that he did not know about his illness when he sold the slave. Abdullah refused to take the oath. He got the slave back. When the slave recovered, he sold it for one thousand five hundred dirhams. According to ÿeybanî, 774. In the purchase and sale contract, the customer has the right to accept or reject the defective goods. In other words, if the customer sees a defect or defect in a product he has purchased while at the seller, he has the right to cancel the bargain and return the goods to the former owner. However, if a good is bought and sold by acquittal, that is, if the seller sells it so that I do not accept any responsibility for any faults or faults of this good, or if the customer says that he accepts the goods with all kinds of deficiencies, he cannot return the goods he bought after the bargain is finalized. (See Mecelle: Art. 337, 342, 343) 1800-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our alliance, whoever buys a concubine and 
gets pregnant or buys a slave and frees him, or if he has an irreparable if the defect is discovered, if it is proven that this defect was present when the goods were received, either by evidence or by the confession of the seller and others; As of the day of purchase, their sick and healthy values are evaluated separately, and the difference is given to the customer. 1801-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our alliance, if someone buys a slave and sees a defect in it that requires his return, while another fault 
occurs on his side, it is considered: If it is important, the customer is made to choose between two things: Either The cost of the fault that occurred while he was with the seller is appreciated and deducted from the amount he will pay, or he pays the price of the fault that occurred with him and returns the slave. If he dies next to him, he is obliged to accept the first form, since it is not possible to return it. For example, if a slave is charged a hundred dinars, but eighty dinars are charged as defective, he will receive twenty dinars less than the customer. 1802-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the person who returns the concubine to her former owner due to a fault she has found, has had relations with the concubine, it is checked: If the concubine is a virgin, she pays the difference in value to the seller. If she's not a virgin, nothing is needed. 1803-) Imam-i  Malik says: If someone sells a slave, concubine or animal inherited or by other means without being responsible for any faults, he will not be held responsible for any of their faults. 
However, if there is a fault that he knows while selling and he has hidden it, then he will be responsible. What he sells is returned to him. 1804-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a concubine is sold for two concubines and then a defect occurs in one of these 
two concubines that will invalidate the contract, first the value of the one concubine, which is the cost of the two concubines, is assessed as of the day of purchase, and then without considering the fault. The prices of those two concubines are calculated and divided into two, so that the price of each concubine is determined. Then, the defective concubine is looked at, and what is reduced from the price due to her fault—whether  it is less or more—is  deducted from what the customer will give. 1805-) Imam-i Malik says: If a man buys a slave and finds a fault that requires returning after he has made it work for a large or small wage, he will return the slave to his owner, and the slave's earnings during this period will belong to the customer. 
The majority in our country is of this opinion. Again, if a man buys a slave, if the slave builds a building for the customer many times higher than his own paw, then if the customer returns the slave to the seller because of a defect that he is aware of, the seller will not receive anything in return for this work. This is also the case when someone else works for a fee, the fee remains with the customer. Because he has the responsibility to protect the slave. This is the verdict for us. 1806-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our alliance, if a person who buys a group of slaves with a contract realizes that one of the slaves has been stolen or that there is a defect in one of them, it is considered: If he also bought other slaves for this, the covenant is basically broken. All slaves are returned. If the stolen or faulty slave is not the best of the slaves, or if the customer did not buy those slaves for this reason and according to those who know, if he is not the best of those slaves, then the defective slave is returned or taken back by calculating the value of the stolen one. 
1807-) Ubeydullah b. From Abdullah: Abdullah b. Mesud bought a concubine from his wife Zeynep, who was from the Sakîf tribe. 
Zeynep to him; If you sell this concubine, you will give me the price you sold," he stipulated. Abdullah b. Masud also gave the verdict 
of Umar b. He asked Khattab. Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said, “As long as there is a condition for a concubine, do not approach 
her.” ÿeybanî, 790 1808-) Abdullah b. 'Umar used to say: "One can only unite with the concubine, whom he can sell, donate, keep 

with him and do whatever he pleases at will." Shaybanî, 791, 1809-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible for a person who buys a 
concubine to have sexual relations with her under certain conditions such as not selling, not donating and similar conditions. Because 

this man does not have the right to sell and forgive the concubine. In the absence of this, the property right of the concubine is not 
complete. Because an exception was made by someone else in his concubine. (Her free use is restricted.) While there is this 
condition, it is not permissible to approach the concubine. It is makruh to sell under such conditions. 1810-) From Ibn Shihab: 
"Abdullah son of Amir, Osman b. He presented Affan with a married concubine he had bought from Basra. When Uthman (radiyallahu 
anh) said: "I will not approach this concubine until her husband leaves her," Ibn Amir consented to her husband. He also divorced his 

wife. Shaybani, 795. 

1811-) According to Abu Salama's narration, his father Abdurrahman b. Avf bought a concubine. When her husband 
realized that he was found, he gave it back. Shaybani, 794. 

1812-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever sells a date palm whose female flowers 
have been grafted with a male flower, its fruit belongs to the seller. But if the fruit is sold to belong to the customer, the fruit belongs 
to the customer.» Bukhari, Buyu, 34/90; Muslim, Buyu, 21/15, no: 77; Shaybani, 792, 793. 1813-) From Ibn Omar: "The Messenger 

of Allah forbade both buyers and sellers to buy and sell the fruit on the tree until its ripening appeared." Bukhari, 34 -Buyu, 85; 
Muslim, 21-Buyu, 13, no: 49; Shaybani, 759. 
According to Hanafis, it is a hawk to sell the fruit that has completely appeared on the tree, whether it is ready to be eaten or 
not. If some of the fruits and vegetables have appeared and some have not, it is valid to sell them by subjecting them to the ones 
that have appeared. (See Mecelle, Art. 206-207). 

1814-) Enes b. Malik reported: The Messenger of Allah forbade the sale of dates on their branches until signs of ripeness appeared. 
He said to him: O Messenger of Allah, what is the sign of maturity?' When he was asked: When it turns red, he answered and 
(continuing): "Tell me, if Allah destroys this fruit (if the fruit on the tree suffers a disaster), what will any of you take the money of your 
believing brother?" Bukhari, Zakat, 24/58, Buyu, 34/87; Muslim, Musâkat, 22/3, no: 15. 

1815-) From Abdurrahman's daughter Amre (radiy-Allâhu  anh): “The Messenger of Allah forbade the sale of 
fruit (until it ripens) until the disaster is over.” This hadith is mursal, Ibn Abdilber made it mawsul. 1816-) Imam-i  Malik 
says: A sale made before maturity is an uncertain sale. Shaybani, 76. 
1817-) Harice b. Zayd says: "My father, Zayd b. He would not sell his fruit on the fixed tree until the star of Sureyya was 

born.” 1818-) Imam-i  Malik says: When watermelons, melons, cucumbers and carrots begin to mature, it is halal and 
permissible for us to sell. Afterwards, all of the product that comes out belongs to the customer until it is cut off and used 
up. No specific time is set for this. Because its time is known among people. Sometimes disaster strikes and destroys the 
vegetables before they are harvested. If the disaster destroyed one-third  or more of the vegetables, then this amount is 
deducted from the money to be paid to the owner. 

1819-) Zayd b. Thabit said: "The Messenger of Allah allowed the Ariyya to sell the fruits he would collect on the tree 
by guessing." Bukhari, Buyu, 34/82; Muslim, Buyu, 21/14, No: 60; Shafii, Risale, no: 908; Shaybani, 757. To donate the 
fruit of the date. As a matter of fact, it is known that the date-owning  Arabs donate the fruit of the date tree to the poor who 
do not have dates. According to Imam-i  Malik, the ariyya exchange is as follows: A person donates some of the dates in his 
palm grove to someone else, then when he is uncomfortable with this man going in and out of his garden, he returns it in 
exchange for dried dates. buys. (San'ani, Subulu's-Salam,  Vol.3, p. 
45). Hanafis also explain ariyya like Imam-i  Malik. (Sehârenfurî, Bezlü'l-Mechud,  vol.15, p. 25). 
According to the ulema, it is permissible to trade ariyyah. But this has been disputed. 
1820-) From Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah allowed the sale of ariyyas of five measures or less." 
Bukhari, Buyu, 34/83; Muslim, Buyu, 21/14, no: 71; Shaybani, 758. David doubted whether it was five measures or less. 
1821-) Imam-i  Malik says: The fresh dates on the tree are carefully estimated and sold with dried dates. It has been licensed. 
Because, this tawliyyah (selling for the price he has received) is regarded as the case of breaking the contract of sale and 
making someone else a partner in the goods he has bought. Apart from these, if it was considered in the contract of sale, 
then no one would be able to make a partner in the food they bought, conclude the contract, and sell the food they bought to 
someone else without profit, without getting their hands on it. 

1822-) From Abdurrahman's daughter Amre: In the time of the Messenger of Allah, a man bought a garden of fruit and took 
care of it. When the fruit was missing, he asked the owner of the garden to either lower the price or break the contract. When 
the owner swore that he would not do this, the customer's mother went to the Messenger of Allah and explained the situation. 
Did the Messenger of Allah swear that he would not commit? said. Hearing this, the owner of the garden came to the 
Messenger of Allah and said: O Messenger of Allah, I do not want anything to be his. This hadith is mursal; Bukhari and Muslim 
have narrated it as: Bukhari, 53-Sulh, 10; Muslim, 22-Musâkat, 4; No: 19. 1823-) Imam-i  Malik, Ömer b. It was rumored that 
Abdulaziz deducted the cost of the fruits that were lost due to the disaster from the customer's debt. Imam-i  Malik says: This is 
the rule for us too. 1824-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is a disaster that destroys one third or more of the amount that needs to be 
reduced from the customer. Losses less than this are not valid. 

1825-) Abdurrahman's son Rabia said "Kasim b. Muhammad would sell the fruit of the trees in his garden, leaving certain 
trees out of sale (for himself).» Shaybani, 764 1826-) From Abdullah, son of Abu Bakr: «My grandfather Muhammad b. Amr 

b. Hazm sold the date palm in his garden in the Efrak district for four thousand dirhams. He put eight hundred dirhams worth of dates out of sale.” Shaybani, 762. 
1827-) Muhammed b. Abdurrahman b. Harise says: "My mother Abdurrahman's daughter Amre would sell the fruits on the tree and leave some trees out of sale for her." Shaybani, 763. 1828-) Imam-i  Malik says: The view that we are allied with is this: If a person sells the dates in his garden, he can put up to one third of it out of sale. Can't leave more than that. 1829-) Imam-i  Malik says: I do not see any harm in him selling the date in his garden and keeping one or a few dates for himself, which he will choose from it and specify the number. For this man would have reserved certain trees from his garden for himself and sold the rest. 
1830-) Ata b. When Yesar said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Dates are sold equally with dates (many times over). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah said: Call him to me. When they came to the presence, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked: Do you buy one measure of dates in exchange for two measures of dates?' said. The officer said, "O Messenger of Allah, they do not give me the same good dates when I exchange them for bad dates." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Then sell the bad type of dates for money, then buy the good type with this money.' he commanded. The hadith is mursal. Ibn Abdilber says: David b. Kays him, Zayd b. He is descended from Ata and Abu Said al-Khudri. We learn that when fruits of the same kind and different qualities are exchanged, their quantities must be equal. Excess interest. This is the view of the Hanafis. (See Square, al-Lubab, 
c. 2, s. 38). 
1831-) From Abu Said al-Khudri  and Abu Hurayra: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) appointed a zakat officer to Khaybar. When the officer returned with quality dates, the Messenger of Allah said: Are all the dates of Khaybar like this? she asked. The officer said: No, by God, O Messenger of Allah, we replace two measures of poor quality zakat dates with one measure of quality dates and three measures with two measures of quality dates. He said, “Sell the poor quality dates for money and buy the quality ones instead.” Bukhari, Buyu, 34/89; Muslim, Musakat, 22/18, no: 95. 1832-) From Zayd Abu Ayyas: "I am Sa'd b. Suite for Ebî Vakkas: It is a grain type thing between wheat and barley. It doesn't have as many pods as barley. In return, I asked (the decision of the purchase) of the barley». Sa'd: Which is more on the scale?» said. When I said: Barley, Sa'd forbade me from it and said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) when asked about buying dried dates for fresh dates; "Does fresh dates become deficient when they dry?" He ordered, and when they said yes, it would be deficient, he did not allow it. Abu Dawud, 22-Buyu, 18; Tirmidhi, 12-Buyu, 14; Nesai, 44-Buyu, 36; Ibn Majah, 12-Ticârât, 53; Shari, Risale, no: 907; ÿeybanî, 765. The sale of barley in return for a suite is either cash or deferred. 
According to Hanafis, it is permissible to exchange them differently if it is in advance. Because the sexes are separated. When the sexes are separate, they are not included in the scope of interest. If it happens with maturity, then it is not permissible. As for buying fresh dates in exchange for dried dates, the issue is disputed by Hanafis. According to Abu Hanifa, it is not permissible according to Abu Yusuf, Muhammad and other madhhab imams. (Sehâranfûrî, Bezlül-Mechud,  vol.15, p. 19-20) 1835-) Said b. From Musayyeb: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): He forbade debate and Muhakala. Müzâbene: To buy the fresh date from the tree by giving dry dates, while Münakala is to buy the wheat from the ear in exchange for the wheat on the ground and to rent a land by giving wheat. Shaybani, 779. 1836-) Ibn Shihab says: Said b. I asked Musayyeb about the ruling of renting land with gold and silver, and he said there is no harm in that. 1837-) Imam-i  Malik says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade mutabah. Müzâbene: It is the sale of things whose scale is disputed and whose number is unknown, presumably because of such and such income. It happens like this: Someone who has a measure of wheat, dates and other similar foodstuffs of unknown size, or clover, safflower, cotton, linen, silk and similar goods for sale, of unknown quantity: “Measure or measure or weigh this commodity. or count. If it comes in less than this many scales or that many kilograms or that many numbers, I'll top it off. If it is too much, let it be mine.” This is not sale. 
It's cheating and gambling. Because he did not buy goods by giving something out of his pocket. He stated that if it is less than the amount specified, it will be completed on it, and if it is more, it will be given to him. This is neither reciprocal selling nor willing forgiveness, but rather like gambling. The ruling on other similar things is the same. 1838-) Imam-i  Malik says: The following also fall under this rule: Someone says to the owner of the cloth: This amount of cloth will come. If there is a shortage, I will complete it, if it is too much, let it be mine. Or you can get that many shirts in these sizes from your fabric. If it is less than that, I will pay for the deficiency, if it is more, let it be mine. Or someone says to the person who has cattle and camel skins: I will cut these skins and make a hundred pairs of shoes according to this man. If you are missing, I will complete it. If it's too much, it's mine. Again, if someone has fruit with him, squeeze these fruits, and if it is less than this amount, I will complete it. If it's too much, he says it's mine. If someone says to the one who has one of the things like gazel, seed, cotton, flax, clover and safflower: I will buy this amount of your gazel in exchange for an equal amount of ghazal to be shaken out in the same way, or I will buy this amount of scale seeds with similar cores. —The  situation is the same for safflower, cotton, linen, and clover.— All of these fall into the musÿbÿn we have mentioned, which is not permissible. 1839-) Imam-i  Malik says: Whoever buys dates from a certain tree or a certain garden, or the milk of a certain sheep's udder, this is permissible. If it is received in advance, he gives the money and takes the goods. This is similar to the oil in the tuluk. 
It is permissible for the customer to take one or two dinars from the oil in the tuluk by calculating the scale. If the tuluk is pierced and oil is spilled after the bargain, the bargain is broken. 1840-) There is no harm in buying things like milk and dates to be delivered as they are milked or collected every day. If the item runs out before the negotiated quantity is received, the seller either returns the customer's remaining money or the customer gets something else they can agree on with the remaining money. It is makruh to leave without receiving what he has received. Because then he will have left his receivable in exchange for a receivable of unknown nature. This is also forbidden. It is makruh to have a maturity date in this type of bargain. However, it is permissible if the nature and time of the thing to be bought is specified. In this case, the seller is obliged to deliver the assigned goods on time. In such cases, the unavailable fruit or milk of a certain garden and sheep is not committed as it is the sale of an unknown thing. 1841-) When Imam-i  Malik is asked about the situation of a person who sells a garden date palm with dates in various qualities to exclude them from the bargain, Imam-i  Malik says: This is not permissible. He may have left the date palm to its owner and replaced it with a tree that yielded ten measures of fruit. For, because the seller was not appointed beforehand, the tree that yielded many dates was given to him. 
chooses. This leads to conflict. If he takes the one who gives fifteen measures and leaves the one who gives ten measures, then he will have bought one kind of date in excess with the other kind. This is just like a customer who comes to a person with a heap of dates of various kinds of dates in front of him, and gives a dinar to buy the heap of dates he wants. This is not lawful. 1842-) When Imam-i  Malik was asked what would happen if a customer bought a certain amount of fresh dates on the branch by giving cash to the owner of the garden, and then some of them were destroyed before they were received, Imam-i  Malik replied: he gets the remaining money back from the owner. For example, if he bought two-thirds of fresh dates, then he gets back one-third  of the date. If he bought three-quarters  of a dinar of dates, he gets back one-fourth  of his dinar. Or, he agrees with the owner and buys dried dates or something else instead of the remaining money. In this case, the customer should not leave without receiving the item he bought. 1843-) Imam-i  Malik says: This is when a man gives his pack camel or house to another for rent, or pays a tailor, a carpenter or a working slave to work, and takes the rent and wages of them in advance, before the desired work is completed, death or other death befalls them. It's like a disaster is coming. Then the owner gives the tenant or the slave worker the right of the remainder by counting. If he has received half of his due, he will also pay the remaining half. If it is less or more than this, it calculates the remainder and returns the remainder. 1844-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not right for him to pay in cash without taking delivery of the slave, camel, house and fresh dates with which he made a contract. Imam-i  Malik says: The explanation of the makruh contract is as follows: One says to the other: "Before the pilgrimage season comes, I will pay you in advance to get on this camel and go on pilgrimage." If death or any other disaster happens to the camel before the pilgrimage season comes and the camel is delivered, the owner returns his money. This is also the case with the slave and at home. 1845-) Imam-i  Malik says: The difference between what is permissible and what is not is surrender. Whoever receives the rented thing is freed from deception and redemption, and receives the particular thing on which they have agreed. An example of this is when a person buys a slave or concubine and receives his money in advance. If one of the situations that requires responsibility happens to them within a year, then he gets his money from the owner. There is nothing wrong with that. Because such is the custom in the sale of slaves. 1846-) Imam-i  Malik says: If he hires a slave or a pack camel to receive it in the future, it will be an incorrect move. Because he neither took delivery at the time of the contract nor determined the qualifications and delivery time of the thing he rented. 1848-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person who buys fresh or dried fruit cannot sell them without receiving them. Also, these fresh fruits and dried fruits can be purchased in advance. It is a dried fruit that can be dried and stored. Dried fruits of the same kind are bought and sold in cash, in return for one another. But if they are of different sexes, there is no harm in selling one to two (in different scales), provided that they are cash. The term is not suitable. Of these fruits, melon, watermelon, cucumber, carrot, citrus, banana, pomegranate etc. Such as, those that cannot be dried and kept waiting can be exchanged in advance. 
1849-) Yahya b. Said said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) Sa'd b. Ebî Vakkas and Sa'd b. He ordered Ubade to sell his share of gold or silver tigers from the booty of Khyber. When they sold a container weighing three dinars for four dinars (4.009 grams of gold) or each container weighing four dinars in coins for three dinars, the Messenger of Allah said, "Your shopping has been paid interest," and they returned what they bought. Mursel. Ibn Wahb, Leys b. Sa'd -Amr b. al-Harith  -Yahya b. Said, Abdullah b. Narrated by Ebi Salama 
it does. 
1850-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Gold is exchanged for gold, 
silver and silver equally, without any excess between them.” When gold or silver is bought and sold in the same kind, it 
must be in cash and in duplicate. Buying and giving a maturity or surplus is interest. Musâkat, 22/150 no: 85; Shafii, 
Risale, no: 759; Shaybani, 816. 
1851-) From Abu Said al-Hudri  (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Sell gold 
with gold only equally. Do not overestimate one of them against the other. Sell silver with silver only in equal measure. 
Do not overestimate one of them against the other. Also, do not sell one of them in cash and the other on loan”. Bukhari, 
34-Buyu, 78; Muslim, 22-Musâkat, 14, no: 75; Shafii, Risale, no: 758; Shaybani, 815. 

1852-) Mujahid says: Abdullah b. I was with Ömer. A jeweler came to him and said: “O Abdullah! I process gold, then 
sell it for more than its own weight. Thus, I take the labor of my hand” Abdullah forbade it. Until Abdulah came to the 
mosque or the animal he was going to ride, the jeweler kept repeating the same question, and he forbade it. Finally, 
Abdullah said: “Gold is sold with gold, and silver with silver, without surplus. This is the order of the prophet to us. This is 
how we command you.” Shafii, Risale, no: 860. Gold bracelets and other used ornaments are replaced with new ones to 
make a difference. This goes into interest. The adornment used to get rid of the interest is sold for money, then a new one 
is bought. 
1853-) Osman b. Affan says: The Messenger of Allah said to me: "One dinar is two dinars, and one dirham is two. 

Do not sell for dirhams.» Muslim Musâkat, 22/14, no: 78, Ibn Vehb Mahreme b. Bukayr-Süleyman b. He narrates with the order of Yesar. coin was called dinar and silver coin was called dirham. They were exchanged in equal measure to each other, when one is more, interest arises. 1854-) Atâ b. From Yesar: Muaviye b. When Abi Sufyan sold my water bowl made of gold or silver with more than its own weight, Abu'd-
Darda said: I heard it from the Messenger of Allah, he forbade it. However, he said (he allowed) to be sold likewise. Upon this, Muawiya said: "I don't think there is any harm in that", Abu'd-Darda  said: Is there anyone who will condemn what I did and support me? I narrate what the Messenger of Allah said to him: He, on the other hand, tells me his opinion. "I can't stay where you are," he said. Then Umar b. He went to Khattab. He told what had happened. Thereupon, Umar b. Khattab wrote to Muawiya: "Sell this to the same weight, many times over." Abu Omar says: I know that this event was presented to Muawiya by Abu'd-Derda  only in this way. Shafii, Risale, No: 1228; ÿeybanî, 718. 1855-) Ömer b. Khattab said: “Sell gold for gold only twice as much, do not overestimate one part for another. Sell silver with silver, but only double. Do not overestimate one part against another. 
Do not sell silver and gold, one in cash and the other on credit. Even if (the customer) asks for permission to enter his house, do not give it. For I am afraid that you will fall into interest.” It was previously narrated from Abu Said as merfu. The reason for this narration is that the practice continues and there is redundancy. 1856-) Omar b. Khattab said: “Sell gold for gold only twice as much, do not overestimate one part for another. Sell silver with silver, but only double. Do not "undercount" one part against another. 
Do not sell silver and gold, one in cash and the other on credit. Even if (the customer) asks for permission to enter his house, do not give it. For I am afraid that you will fall into interest.” 1857-) Omar b. Khattab says: Dinars are sold equally with dinars, dirhams with dirhams, and one scale with one scale. One of them cannot be in advance and the other cannot be on credit. 1858-) Said b. From Müseyyeb: "Interest can only be paid on gold and silver, and on the items to be eaten and drunk, which are included in the measure and scale." Shaybani, 820. 1859-) Said b. Müseyyeb: "To cut off a piece and give it a missing piece (because it enters interest) while corrupting the leaf with gold and silver with silver is to cause mischief on the earth." Shaybani, 829. 1860-) Owner says: There is no harm in buying gold that has been made into ingots or ornaments without weighing it with silver and silver with gold. But numbered dirhams (silver money) and dinars (when it comes to gold coins, it is not permissible to sell them wholesale without informing and counting their amounts. If they are bought wholesale without being counted and weighed, then it is intended to deceive and is not one of the transactions made halal for Muslims. ornaments can be sold without weighing them, such as wheat, dates, and other foodstuffs sold to Kabbalah. 
1861-) Malik says: If someone buys the Quran or hair or ring with gold or silver money, it will be looked at. If the value of the thing he buys is two-thirds  and the value of the gold or silver in it is one-third,  it is permissible, provided that it is paid in advance. 
1862-) Malik b. Evs b. Hadesan an-Nasrî  says: “I wanted to exchange a hundred dinars. Talha b. Ubeydullah called me to get them. After a long bargain, he took a hundred dinars from me, turned it over in his hand, and said, "My cashier is a place near Medina from Gâbe. Bukhari, Buyu, 34/76; Muslim, 22, Musâkat, 15; no; "Let me go until 79," he said. Hearing this, Umar b. Khattab said: "By Allah, do not stay with him until you get his reward." The Messenger of Allah said: "Exchanging gold with silver is interest. However, if both are paid in advance, there is no interest. Exchange of wheat for wheat becomes interest. However, if it is paid in advance, there is no interest. Exchange of dates with dates becomes interest. But not in advance. Exchange of barley with barley becomes interest. However, it is not possible to pay in advance," said Shaybani, 
817. 1863-) Imam-i  Malik says: If someone gives dinars (gold coins) and buys dirhams (silver, coins), then when he finds low quality dirhams in them, if he wants to give it back, This business is fundamentally broken. He gives back all his dirhams and gets his dinars back. The proof that this is makruh is that the Messenger of Allah said: "Exchanging gold for silver becomes interest. It is the promise of Hazrat Umar: "Even if he asks for permission to enter his house, don't give him permission" with the command "Only if you pay in advance". Because after leaving the bargaining place, if only the ayan gives back the low dirham, then it will be like a bargain on debt or on credit. For this reason, it is makruh and the contract is fundamentally broken. Umar b. 
Khattab requested that food items such as gold and silver, barley, wheat and dates not be sold against the cash in advance. Because, even 
if they are of the same type or of a different type, credit and maturity are not permissible. 
1864-) Yazid b. Abdullah b. From Quseyt: « Said b. I saw Museyyeb shopping for gold. He poured his own gold into one pan of the scale, 
and the others into the other, and exchanged it when the scales were even.” Shaybani, 819. 1865-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, 
there is no harm in exchanging dinars for dinars and dirhams for dirhams, even if the number is different, provided that the weights are 
equal and in advance, for example, it is okay to get eleven dinars for ten dinars. 

At that time, dinars and dirhams were different from each other in weight, as they were not in coins. Dirhams too 
they are like dinars in this regard. 
1866-) Imam-i  Malik says: Whoever buys gold by weighing it with gold and silver with silver, and there is a small difference between them, and if he gives silver or something to his friend equal to its value, he should not buy it. Because this is ugly and leads to interest. When it is permissible to buy the value of miskal gold, then it will be as if he had bought it separately. In this case, it is also permissible to take a few times the value of the mishqal in order to make the trade permissible. The owner says: If the customer sells this musk on its own without anything else, the customer will not be able to buy one-tenth  of the price he bought before, in order to make the sale permissible for him. This is seeking a solution to render haram halal. Banned. 1867-) 
Imam-i  Malik says: If someone gives a mix of quality gold and poor quality gold bullion by weighing, and receives an equal amount of Kufa gold, which is not accepted by the people, this is not true, it is makruh. Malik says: Because the owner of quality gold has bought the best of the gold bullion he gave with this gold. However, its gold is still of good quality. Otherwise, his friend would not have bought it by weighing it with his own Kufa gold. This is like buying three measures of good quality dates with two and a half measures of dates that are better dried, when it is said to him that what you are doing is not right, he gives two measures of good quality dates and one measure of poor quality dates in exchange for the dates he bought in order to make it permissible to trade. (Thus, the date that is exchanged becomes three measures, that is, equal). This is not lawful. Because the owner of good quality dates did not give a measure of date for a measure of poor quality date. On the contrary, he gave it for quality dates. Or this is similar to this; When one of them told the other to sell me three measures of white wheat for two measures of Damascus wheat, the other said: This is not permissible. However, when he says that it is permissible to do so, he gives two measures of Damascus wheat and one measure of barley to make the trade permissible this time, which is also not permissible. Because if the bargain had been independent, it would not have given one measure of white wheat for one measure of barley. He gave it because of the superior quality of Damascus wheat. This is not lawful. This is also the case of the gold bullion you mentioned. 1868-) Imam-i  Malik says: However, it is not right to have bad types of gold, silver and wheat, which are 
permissible to sell likewise, in order to make the sale permissible by ensuring equivalence and to make the forbidden thing halal. The one who does so wants to indicate that the quality of what he is selling with it is good. 
However, if he gives the poor quality thing alone, the other person will not accept it. So, he accepts this only for the sake of that quality product. But there is no harm in this if he sells that poor quality wheat by himself in another way, even if he does not mix it with the good ones. 1869-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah said, "Whoever buys any food item, let it not be sold to anyone 
else without receiving it." he commanded. Bukhari, Buyu, 34/51; Muslim, Buyu, 21/8, no: 32. 
1870-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah said, "Whoever buys any food item should not sell it to someone else without receiving it." Muslim, Buyu, 21/8, no: 33. 1871-) Abdullah b. From Umar: "We used to buy food in the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Before we sold it, the Messenger of Allah would send someone who ordered us to transfer it from the place we bought it to another place.” Muslim, Buyu, 21/8, no: 33 1872-) Ömer b. By the order of Khattab, Hakim b. Hizam bought foodstuffs for the people and sold them back without receiving them. Hearing this, Umar (radiyallahu anh) stopped the bargain and said: "Do not sell the food you bought before you receive it". In the hadiths on this subject, we learned that it is not permissible to sell purchased foodstuffs before they are received. Is this provision valid only for foodstuffs or are others included in it? Imam-i  Malik's opinion will be seen in the text a little later. His view is as follows: The thing purchased is either immovable, that is, immovable goods, or movable, that is, movable goods. 
It is permissible to sell immovable goods before receiving them. It is not permissible to sell movable goods before receiving them. (See Mecelle, Mad, 253) According to Shafi'i, both food items and other items and even immovable property are included in the same provision, their sales are not valid. b. According to Hanbel, it is not permissible to sell beforehand before receiving the measure and weighing, but the sale of other items is permissible. (Ibn Rushd, Bidaye-tu'l-Muctehid,  vol.2, p. 158; Sehârenfuri, Bezlü'l-Mechûl  c.15, p. 167). 
1873-) The following was narrated to Malik: "(on the beach) the rationing areas for the foodstuffs in the Câr warehouse were Marwan b. The referee was on time. People would also sell these documents without receiving the food items. Thereupon, Zayd b. Thabit and someone other than the Companions appeared before Marwan and said: “Do you make interest lawful? O Marwan!» When they said, Marwan said: "I seek refuge in Allah from making interest lawful. Where did that come from?' said. These documents... People are taking those documents, they are selling their goods before they are delivered” they said. Thereupon, Marwan sent the police to follow them. The police were taking these documents from the buyers and returning them to their owners. Muslim, manaca Dahhak b. Osman -Bukeyr b. Abdullah b. al-Eÿecc  -Süleyman b. Yesar -Abu Hurayra is reported to have been associated with the promissory note: "sak", which we translate as "reservation certificate", mentioned in Buyu, 21/8, no: 40: It means a paper on which debt is written. Here is the purpose of it. Veliyyü'l-Emr  is a guarantee to the right holders who will receive in the state the food and other rights they will receive; He would write it down and give it away. They would also sell these rights to others without receiving them from the state treasury. (See Sahihu Muslim bi-ÿerhin-Nevevî,  c. 10, p. 171). 
1874-) It was narrated to Malik: "A man wanted to buy wheat from another man on loan. Thereupon, this person took the customer to the market. Pointing to the heaps of wheat there, he said: Which of these do you want me to take for you?' When the customer says: Are you selling me what you don't have?» said and Abdullah b. They came to Ömer. Abdullah b. Omar said to the customer: "Do not buy from this what you do not have" and to the seller: "Do not sell what you do not have". 
1875-) Yahya b. From Said: The muezzin Cemil, son of Abdurrahman, said that Said b. I heard him ask a question to Müseyyeb: I buy the food items that the government distributes to people from the Car warehouse. Then I want to sell it back with maturity.” said. Upon this, Said: Do you want to give them back all the food I bought?' said. When Cemil said: Saîd forbade it. 1876-) Imam-i  Malik says: The unanimously accepted view is as follows: One of the grains such as wheat, barley, oats, denim, or one of the things such as chickpeas, lentils, or vegetable oil, butter, honey, vinegar, cheese, sesame oil and Whoever buys milk and similar additives cannot sell them before receiving them. 
1877-) From Ebuz-Zinad:  Said b. Müseyyeb and Süleyman b. I heard from Yesâr. They forbade a person to sell wheat for gold and buy dates instead, before receiving the gold on due date. 1878-) Kesir b. From Ferkad, "Abu Bakr b. Muhammed b. Amr b. I asked Hazm about the situation of the person who sold wheat for gold on credit and then bought dates instead of gold, and he forbade it, considering it abominable.” 1879-) A similar narration was reported from Ibn Shihab. 1880-) Imam-i  Malik says: Said b. Müseyyeb, Süleyman b. Yesâr, Abu Bakr b. Muhammed b. Amr b. Hazm and Ibn Shihab forbade someone to sell wheat for money and buy dates instead without receiving the money. But if he takes dates from someone else and sends them to the person to whom he sells wheat in order to get the money of the owner of the date, there is no harm in that. Malik says; I asked many knowledgeable people about this issue, and they did not see any harm in it. 
1881-) Abdullah b. Ömer says: There is no harm in buying foodstuffs by paying the other cash in advance, on the condition that they determine the quality, price and delivery time. However, it is not permissible to buy an immature date, with no signs of ripening on the tree or the crop on the ear, under this condition. 1882-) Imam-i  Malik says: Even if someone buys foodstuffs by paying cash and determining the delivery time and price, when the delivery time comes, the owner cannot find the goods to be bought and breaks the bargain, then he must get back the money he has given first. If he buys something else in its place before he receives his money, then it will be as if he had already sold the foodstuffs he had bargained for before he received it. Malik says: However, the Messenger of Allah forbade the sale of foodstuffs before receiving them. The owner says: If the customer regretfully says to the seller: "Let's break the bargain, you will return the money I gave you in the future (I don't want it now)", this is not true. Fukaha forbade it. Because, as a result of the customer's postponement of his receivables from the owner on the condition that the bargain is broken, the food items that are bargained with become halal to the owner, the food items that are paid for for future purchase must also be halal to be sold before they are delivered. (However, both are not permissible.) Malik says: The explanation for this is as follows. When the delivery time of the goods comes and the customer does not like the goods and wants to get his money back at a later date, it is not to break the bargain. Because when the bargain is broken, neither the seller nor the customer is provided with a surplus. The customer gets his money back, and the owner gets his property back as it is. If something happens, such as delaying the specified time in breaking the bargain, or giving something that is not in the bargain to the other, or providing a benefit to one of the parties, it is not called breaking the bargain. Breaking the bargain happens after the contract is completed. It is permissible to break the bargain, to make someone else a partner in the goods bought, and to sell the goods for the price they bought, provided that there is no excess, deficiency or maturity. If there is more, less or maturity in this, it will be a sale. In this case, whoever makes commerce halal makes it halal, and whoever makes commerce unlawful also makes it haram. 1883-) Imam-i  Malik says: There is no harm in buying Mahmule wheat after the maturity of the person who pays cash for Damascus wheat. The owner says: There is nothing wrong with a person who gives money in cash by specifying the type of goods he will buy in the future, when the time comes to receive the goods, he will receive the good or the low quality. For example, it is permissible for a person who pays cash to buy Mahmule wheat in the future to buy Damascus wheat or barley. Again, it is permissible for a person who pays cash to buy dates in acve (good quality) type, to buy dates called seyhanî or cem' (low quality). Those who pay cash for red raisins can also buy black raisins. For these to be permissible, the delivery time must have come and the amount to be received must be equal to the predetermined scale. 
1884-) Süleyman b. From Yesâr: Sa'd b. When Ebi Vakkas' donkey ran out of food, he said to his slave: Buy wheat from the house. Take it, change the amount of wheat with barley, do not overdo it » Mal ii tnc/h''  iuo fjöro, wheat and barley are considered as a genus. For this reason, someone would say 'i:-"i iî rk'Riÿtirilineo, excess is not permissible, but according to the Hanafi sect. hÿm ÿn r nyn r-.yi-\  they are genus. Excess is permissible provided that it is paid in advance. 
1885-) Süleyman b. From Yesar: Abdurrahman, son of Esved, son of Abdi Yegus, to his slave when his animal's food was exhausted: Buy wheat from the house. Then buy an equal amount of barley for this wheat.” he would say. 1886-) A similar hadith was narrated from Ibn Muayqib ed-Devsi.  Malik says: According to us, this is the ruling. 
1887-) Again, Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the consensus is that wheat and wheat, dates and dates, wheat and dates and dates and raisins, raisins and wheat and all kinds of foodstuffs and additives are mutually sold on condition that they are paid in cash. it is permissible. It is haram to exchange them with each other. 1888-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible to sell foodstuffs and additives as different from their own kind. 
For example, it is not permissible to sell one measure of wheat for two measures of wheat, one measure of date for two measures of dates, one measure of raisins for two measures of raisins, and all similar grains and additives of the same kind, even if it is cash, in exchange for two measures. For it is like exchanging silver for silver and gold for gold. Excess and maturity is not permissible. It must be equal and upfront. 1889-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the items that can be measured and weighed are from various classes and the difference is large, then it is permissible to sell them in cash in different amounts. For example, there is nothing wrong with buying one measure of dates for two measures of wheat, one measure of dates for two measures of raisins, and one measure of wheat for two measures of butter, provided that it is cash, and it is not permissible if it is deferred. 1890-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible to change a heap of wheat whose quantity is not known without measuring it with another heap of wheat. However, it is permissible to exchange a heap of wheat for a heap of dates in advance. Because there is no harm in buying wheat in exchange for dates. 1891-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is permissible to buy some of the different foodstuffs and additives in exchange for the other. However, they must be paid in advance. The permissibility of such admission to Kabbalah is like receiving one of them with gold and silver. 1892-) Imam-i Malik says: For example, if you buy wheat for cabala with silver and dates for cabal with gold, it is halal, there is no harm in it. Malik says: Whoever heaps up the wheat of which he knows the amount and sells it to the Kabbalah by hiding it from the customer, it is not permissible. If the customer wishes, he can return it to the owner on the grounds that he has hidden the amount and cheated. Islamic scholars forbade such a sale. 1893-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not appropriate to replace a loaf of bread, one larger than the other, with two loaves and the larger one with a smaller one. But if it is known that they are equal to each other, then it is permissible to change them in this way without weighing them. 1894-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not right to sell one measure of milk and one measure of cream for two measures of cream. This is like selling two scales of kebîs (luxury quality) dates for dates. Because when the person who did this did not want to exchange two measures of kebîs with three measures of acve, he added one measure of common dates to ensure equivalence and make the trade permissible. So is the dairy owner. He gave cream with milk to get more cream. 1895-) Imam-i  Malik says: There is no harm in replacing wheat with flour equally. According to Hanafis, it is not permissible to replace wheat with flour. Because the two are the same genus and must be measured on a scale. On a scale, flour and wheat are not equal. There is a possibility that one is too much. There is excess interest on same kind of things. (Mavsili, al-Ihtiyar,  v.2, p. 32). If he fills half the scale with wheat and the other half with flour, and gives it in exchange for a measure of wheat, as we have stated before, this is not permissible. Because in this case, he counted his wheat as high quality and filled half of the scale with flour. This is also illegal. 
1896-) From Muhammad, son of Abdullah, son of Abu Meryem: Said b. I asked Müseyyeb: “I am buying the food items distributed with the remuneration certificates of the state treasury in Car. Sometimes I get a dinar for half a dirham. In this case, instead of half a dirham, I do not buy food as much as its value.” Said: “No, don't take it short. You give dirhams and buy food on it," he said. 1897-) According to what is reported from Malik: Muhammad b. Sirin used to say, "Do not sell your crop in the spike until 
it turns white." 1898-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person buys foodstuffs by determining the price and on maturity, when the delivery time comes, the owner will say: "I do not have the goods to give you. You sell it back to me on maturity.” it is not permissible. Because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the sale of food items before receiving them. Because the owner first gave the thing he sold to the customer, and then the customer returned it back to him. Then the money that the owner gives to the customer instead of the goods and the food items that the customer does not buy from the owner spoil the sale between them. If the customer sells the food back to him, he has sold it before he receives it. 1899-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a customer buys some food from the owner and does not receive it, if he owes the same amount of food to another creditor, and by sending this creditor to the person from whom he bought the food, "Go, I will give it to you." It is permissible if he says, “I have as much to buy from him, take it from him” is not. Because he sold what he bought before he received it. However, this is not lawful. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade it. However, Islamic scholars have come to a consensus that it is permissible to make a German property partner with someone else, to sell the property for the purchase price, and to break the bargain. Malik says: The jurists considered it cooperation, not sales. This is like giving full dirhams to a person who lends incomplete dirhams, which is permissible. But if he buys full dirhams with missing dirhams, it is not permissible. It is not permissible if he agrees on the condition that full dirhams are paid, and if he himself gives incomplete. 1900-) Imam-i  Malik says: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) forbade the sale of muzabane and allowed the exchange of bees in exchange for dates on the ground by guessing. 
These two are different from each other. Because the sale of muzabane is based on mutual bargaining and trade. Ariyye sales are based on goodness and help. There is no competition for mutual benefit in this. Muzabane: Replacing a fresh date with the same amount of dried dates. Ariyye (Arayâ): Donation of date fruits. 1901-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible for a person to buy food for a quarter or a third of a dirham or less in order to give food in return. It is permissible for a person to buy wheat for a small amount of money on a loan, then complete it for one dirham and get something else in return for the remaining fraction. 1902-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is permissible for a person to give one dirham to another and then buy from him a certain 
amount of goods in exchange for a third or a quarter of the dirham or a certain fraction of it. If the price of the goods is not known and the person who leaves the money says that he will buy it according to the price on the day I will buy it, this is not permissible. Because it can be deceived. Because the price sometimes goes down and sometimes it goes up. In addition, the buyer and the seller leave without bargaining (which is also not permissible). 1903-) Imam-i  Malik says: Whoever sells wheat to the Kabbalah and does not keep it for himself, and then wants to get some of it back when he needs it, it is not permissible. But when selling Kabbalah, he can set aside a third or less for himself. If it is more than one-third,  it is included in the sale, which is muzâbene and makruh. 1904-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Umar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) says: “In our bazaars, black market is not allowed. Those who have excess wealth (in order to raise the price) do not hide their wealth by making sacrifices against us. But those who bring goods on their backs to sell to the market in summer and winter (who work with sweat) are the guests of Ömer. They sell as they wish and hold as they wish.” 
1905-) Said b. It was narrated from Musayyeb: Umar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) stopped by Hatib, son of Abu Beltea, who was selling raisins in the bazaar and said to him: Increase the price or remove your goods from our market. Shaybani, 
789. Apparently, since he sold below the normal market, he must have ensured that he sells it in normal Oya in order not to allow the profiteers to buy and stock up. 1906-) Imam-i  Mâlike Osman b. It was reported that Affan forbade profiteering. 
1907-) Hasan b. Muhammed b. Ali b. It was narrated from Abi Talib: Ali b. Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh) He sold his big camel, called Usayfir, for twenty pack camels, which he would buy after a certain time. Shaybani, 800. 1908-) It was narrated from Nali: Abdullah b. Omar (radiyallahu anh) to his owner in Rebeze Rebeze: It is a place near Medina. He bought a pack camel in exchange for four camels to be delivered. 1909-) When Imam-i  Malik asked Ibn Shihab about the decision of buying one animal in order to give two animals in return later on, he said: "There is no harm, it may be." said. 1910-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the consensus on this issue is this: It is permissible to buy a camel in cash by giving money to a camel like himself and a superior. Again, there is no harm in buying a camel by giving money to a camel like itself and to the top, in order to pay the camels in advance and to pay the money later. However, it is not permissible to take the camel to the camel and to the base in return for money, in cash, and to deliver the camel later. If both the money and the camel take it to be delivered later, this is also not true. 1911-) Imam-i  Malik says: Although it is of the same breed, it is permissible to buy a good camel for two or more camels. There is no harm in giving one camel in advance and buying two camels after a certain period of time, if this difference is clearly seen. they are similar to each other (if there is no difference between them), it is not possible to give a camel in advance and then buy two camels, regardless of their breed. 1912-) Imam-i  Malik says: The unlawful way of doing this is to take two camels, which have no difference between them in terms of the well-being  of the breed, endurance of the load and the journey, on one camel. If you have paid for a camel you bought, you can sell it to someone else before you receive it. 1913-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is permissible for a person to buy an animal by means of salam, by paying cash in advance and specifying its quality and shape. In this case, the buyer and seller must comply with the principles specified. 
This is the way people treat them. This is the opinion of the scholars of Madinah. 
1914-) Abdullah b. It was reported from Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade selling the baby of a 
baby in the womb of a pregnant camel. In the era of ignorance, it was customary to sell the baby in the belly of a loaded camel. 
Again at that time, they were buying and selling a camel in exchange for giving it back when the baby chick in the camel's belly 
grew and gave birth. Bukhari, Buyu, 34/61; Muslim, Buyu, 21/3, no: 5-6; Shaybani, 777. 
1915-) Said b. Müseyyeb says: There is no interest in animals either. Three things about animals are prohibited: 

1916-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible for a person to pay cash and buy an animal that is not with him at the time of bargaining, even if he has seen it before and consented to it. 1917-) Imam-i  Malik says: This is makruh. Because the seller benefits from the money he receives. However, it is unclear whether this item remains as the customer sees it. It would be makruh for this as well. But if its qualification is clear and it is delivered exactly as it is, there is no harm in it. 
1918-) Said b. It was narrated from Musayyeb that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade selling animals for meat. Ibn Abdil-Barr  says: I do not know that this hadith was narrated by a conclusive deed from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Because the above hadith is munqat. Because Said b. Musayyeb is natural. He did not see Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Shaybani, 783. 1919-) Said b. Museyyeb says: Selling animals for meat or two sheep for one sheep is one of the gambles played by the people of ignorance. Shaybani, 782. 1920-) From Ebuz-Zinad:  Said b. Müseyyeb said, "It is forbidden to sell animals for meat." he would say. Shaybani, 781. says: Said b. I asked Museyyeb: "What do you say about someone buying an old female camel for ten sheep?" said. “If he took it to cut it, it is not permissible,” he said. He says: "All of the people I grew up with and talked to forbade the sale of animals for meat. This matter, Ebân b. Osman and Hisham b. In Ismail's times, it was written in the orders of the governors, and they forbade it. 1921-) Imam-i  Malik says: The ruling on the meat of camels, cattle, sheep and other wild animals similar to them is as follows: There is no harm in selling it without weighing it, provided that it is of the same type and in cash. 1922-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is also permissible to buy and sell the meat of fish, camels, cattle, sheep and other similar wild animals for two or more in cash. If it interferes for a while, it is not permissible. 1923-) Imam-i  Malik says: I see all bird meat as different from fish and animal meats. Therefore, I don't see any harm in buying and selling them in advance or in excess of each other. But none of them can be sold on credit. 
1924-) From Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari  (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade dog money, dowry women's mahr and divination fee. A woman's mahr is what is given to her in exchange for adultery. The divination fee is the bribe given to the oracle and the goods he receives to act as a priest. Bukhari, Buyu, 34/113; Muslim, Musâkat, 22/9, no: 39. 1925-) Imam-i  Malik says: I find it makruh to take money from a dog, whether it is offensive or not. because The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade taking money for dogs. Hanafis have allowed the sale of certain breeds of dogs. Because, in a hadith, it is reported that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade the sale of dogs other than hunting and shepherd dogs. As for hunting and shepherd dogs, they are also considered property and it is permissible to sell them, as they are used for waiting for sheep and hunting. According to Abu Yusuf, it is not permissible to sell wild dogs that attack everything they see. According to Shafiis, it is not permissible to sell dogs. (Mergînani, al-Hidaye,  vol. 3, p. 79). 1926-) It was narrated to Imam-i  Malik that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade shopping (Salam) made by paying cash in order to be delivered later. Abu Dawud, Buyu, 22/68; Tirmidhi, Buyu, 12/19; Nesai, Buyu, 44/60. 1927-) Imam-i  Malik explains this as follows: If they say I will buy it at this price, provided that you deliver your goods to me at such and such a time, and they agree in this way, this trade is not permissible. But if he abandons this condition, it will be permissible. 1928-) Imam-i  Malik says: Keten, Shatavi Sata: It is a place name in Egypt. Shatawi is the fabric association made there. or Kasabi It is a soft dress made of linen. îtribî a dress, A type of fabric. Kasst is a cloth attributed to a place in Egypt. or Ziyka Ziyka: There is no harm in buying a fabric dress that is attributed to a neighborhood in Nishapur. The cloth attributed to the city of Herat in Herevi Khorasan. or Marevi, the fabric attributed to the city of Merv in Morocco. There is no harm in buying a dress with a Yemeni chador or an Izan, and buying and selling one of them for two or three dresses, in cash or on credit. But if they are of one kind, it would not be right for them to be bought and sold on credit. Malik says: But if their species are different and the difference between them is clearly seen, they can be bought and sold. Even if their names are different, they are similar to each other. If there is no difference between them, two of them cannot be bought on credit for one dress, for example two Herevi dresses, one Merevi dress or a Kuhf White dress type. A fabric, or a white tent or shade dress made of linen, which is attributed to a dress or two Furkubi Furqubs, cannot be bought and sold on credit, unless they are different from one Shatawi dress. 1929-) Imam-i  Malik says: If you have paid for a dress you bought, before you receive it, give it to someone else. 
you can sell. 
1930-) Kasÿm b. It was narrated from Muhammad: A man Abdullah b. Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "What is the ruling 
if a person who buys a piece of cloth through Salam wants to sell it before receiving it?" 

He asked, Ibn Abbas said: "This is like selling silver for silver." He did not tolerate this kind of shopping. Because it is not permissible to sell silver on credit in exchange for silver and gold. (Mavsili, al-Ihtiyar:  c.2, p. 39). 1931-) Imam-i  Malik says: As you understand, that man wanted to sell the goods he bought to the person he bought again for more than the purchase price. If he was 
going to sell it to someone else, he wouldn't mind. 1932-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, salam is not permissible for a slave or animal by Hanafis. Because they are very different from each other in terms of value, Imam Shafii says that it is permissible because 
it will become clear when its gender, age, type and attribute are explained, (Merginani, al-Hidaye:  Vol. 3, p. 76). The point of agreement about the person who makes salam for salam and other goods is this: If salam is made up to a certain time, knowing all the characteristics of these, when the time comes, the customer cannot sell the good he bought through salam to the same person for more than the price he bought before receiving it. If he does, it will be interest. Because if the customer gives dinar or dirham (money) to the thing he sells, the seller will benefit from it. When the goods that the customer has sold for more than the price he has given before the delivery are left to him, he will give a little more from his side, although he will return the money he has given in advance. This excess is considered interest. 1933-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person makes a salam contract by giving gold or silver in advance for an animal or property whose characteristics are specified, to receive it after a certain period of time, when this customer assigns that property to the person from whom he received it (without delivery). before or after his arrival, he can sell in exchange for 
any goods that he will throw in cash. It doesn't matter how big it is. If the salam is wheat (food), it is not halal to sell it without receiving it. He may sell this property, which he has not received yet, on loan, and sell it in exchange for gold, silver or any other commodity to be received. If he puts it on credit, that wouldn't be right. Because in that case, one man will have sold his debt to another man, which is makruh. It happens like this: A person buys something to receive it after a certain period of time, when the time comes, the seller cannot find the goods to pay for and says to sell it to me to pay a little more after a while, and he sells it, but they do not deliver the goods among themselves. This is makruh. 1934-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person buys an inedible or non-edible  item through salam, he can sell it to someone else in exchange for money or goods before receiving it. He cannot sell it to anyone he buys. However, he can sell it if he does not leave it on credit, but in exchange for a commodity that he will buy in cash. The owner says: There is no harm in reselling the goods to the former owner in return for another property to be purchased in advance, before the time of delivery. 1935-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person gives some dinars or dirhams in advance to receive them after a certain period of time, for four 
clothes with known qualities, when he wants the clothes that he will buy when the time comes, the seller does not have any clothes with those qualities, but of the same type, lower quality. If there were dresses available, if the seller told the customer that I would give you eight of these dresses, and he took them before leaving, there would be no harm in doing so. 
If it enters for a while, it wouldn't be right. If they do so before the appointed time comes, it is not right either. However, it is permissible if he sells another dress, which cannot afford the same dress as the one for which he paid in advance. 
1936-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, apart from gold and silver, there is no harm in buying two for one, copper and lead varieties, iron, plants that are freshly cut and eaten, figs, cotton, etc. a ritÿl ritil: It is a weight measure and varies according to the towns. According to corn measurements, a ritil is 460.8 grams. iron can be taken into two rims of iron, one rtyl of copper and two rits of copper. 1937-) Imam-i  Malik says: If it is of the same sex, it is not correct to take it for one or two loans. But if the species 
change and this change is clearly evident, then it is permissible to buy two of them on loan for one. Although different, lead and anuk Ânuk: Pure and black lead., copper and sheer Shebeh: Golden yellow copper, this is considered superior to the other, or it is a metal called yellow. If a class like this is similar to another class, I do not find it right to buy and sell on one-to-two  credit. 1938-) Imam-i  Malik says: If you bought what you bought from all these classes by measuring or weighing, there is no harm in selling it to someone else for cash before surrendering. If you bought it not by measuring and weighing it, but by a lump sum, then you can sell it to 
someone else both in cash and on credit. Because when you buy a lump sum, you don't have to pay what you have to pay until you weigh it and receive it when you buy it with a scale. This is the best thing I've heard about it. This is how people behave. 1939-) Imam-i Malik says: Usfur, which is sold by measure or weighing according to us, Usfur: It is a summer plant. A red dye is obtained from it, which is used for dyeing silk and similar things. The seed, the leaves that are shaken off the trees as animal feed, and the flax are a plant resembling basil from the myrtle bean family. This plant, also called monkey pepper, grows in Africa and hot countries. It was used in the past to make paint and ink. It is a plant with red stamps on it and is used to obtain black dye. 
Its description in medical books is as follows: It is a plant that grows in the mountains. Its leaves are like basil leaves and its fruit is like pepper. The oil obtained by squeezing from it was put on lamps in the countryside (deserts) and burned. defeated like 
One-to-two  cash benefits of all kinds of non-smoking  items can be bought and sold. Credits of the same type cannot be bought and sold two for one. It is permissible to buy and sell other species on one-to-two  credit with each other. There is no harm in selling the thing bought from all these classes to someone else by taking the money in advance before receiving it. 1940-) Imam-i  Malik says that everything that people use, even small pebbles and lime, is interest to buy one of them twice on loan. Buying and selling a person on credit by adding something to its double and next to it is also interest. 1941-) From Imam-i  Malik: It was reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade two kinds of sales in a bargain. Tirmidhi (Buyu, 12/18, sahih-hasen)  has made it a valid. See also Nesai, Buyu, 44/73. It would be like this: For example, saying I will sell you this property for 100 liras in cash or 200 liras on credit. 1942-) It was narrated from Imam-i  Malik: One man said to another: "Buy this camel with cash. I'll buy it from you on credit," he said. The decree of this was Abdullah b. When asked about Omar, he did not tolerate him and forbade him. This hadith can also be translated as follows: "Buy this camel for me in cash, and sell it to me (for a higher price) on credit." As it turned out, the man needs a camel, he has no cash. He makes someone else buy it in advance, takes it on loan from him at a higher price. The reason why this is not permissible is that when you buy it in cash and sell it on credit for a high price in the same session, even though its appearance is buying and selling, it actually becomes interest. Because the cashier gives the money, after a while he gets more money. 1943-) Imam-i  Malik: It was reported as follows: Kasÿm b. When asked about a person who bought property for ten dinars in cash or fifteen dinars on credit, he saw this as makruh and forbade it. 1944-) Imam-i  Malik says: A customer who buys goods for ten dinars in cash or fifteen dinars on credit has to pay one of these two prices. This is not true. Because if he leaves ten dinars on credit, after a certain time it becomes fifteen dinars. If he pays these ten dinars in cash, he will have bought fifteen dinars, which he would pay when he left on credit. Accordingly, it is not permissible because in the first case, he would have overpaid, and in the second case, he would have bought the excess money with less money. 1945-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man buys goods from someone for ten dinars or on credit, for a sheep with certain qualifications, he has to pay one of these two prices. This is the letter. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade two sales in one bargain. This shopping is like that. 1946-) Imam-i  Malik says: One person to another: This is fifteen hours of acve A date type. dates or ten sâ' Sâ': It is a scale and it is 2.917 kg according to the religious dirham and 3.333 kg according to the customary dirham. sayhani date This is a higher quality date variety than the date called acve. Or if he says he is buying fifteen sa' mahmude wheat or ten sâ'miye wheat for one dinar, it is makruh, it is not halal. Because, while he required ten sa' of dates, he leaves it and takes fifteen sa' of dates. Or, instead of buying fifteen sa' mahmule wheat, he leaves it and buys ten sa' samiye wheat. Both of these are makruh. Such a trade is not halal. Because it's like making two sales in a forbidden bargain. On the other hand, it is similar to selling two measures of the same type of wheat (food) for one scale (which is also prohibited). 
1947-) Said b. It was narrated from Musayyeb that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the Bey gareri (shopping with uncertain outcome). It is mursal with the alliance of muvatta narrators. Muslim, Buyu, 21/2, no: 4; Shaybani, 775. 
1948-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is like this when someone says to a man whose fifty dinars worth of slave has escaped or whose animal is lost, "I am getting it from you for twenty dinars". Because if the customer finds it, the seller will have lost thirty dinars. If he can't find it, he takes twenty dinars from the customer for nothing. Malik says; There is a second shame in this, and that is this: Even if this lost animal is found, it cannot be known whether its value will increase or decrease or whether any shame will arise. This is a great danger and deception. 1949-) Imam-i  Malik says: Buying the baby that is in the wombs of women (concubines) and animals is also such a trade. Because it is not known whether he will be born or not. Even if it is born, it cannot be known whether it will be good or bad, beautiful or ugly, full or deficient, male or female. they may differ (more or less) from each other, with the agreed price of all these being different and their value being different. 1950-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible to sell a female animal and leave the baby out of sale. For example, if a man says to another: "This milking sheep of mine is worth three dinars, but I will sell it to you for two dinars on condition that I keep the baby in its belly", it is makruh. Because there is a danger of ignorance and deception in this. 
(Since the baby to be born is not known, it may cause conflict.) 1951-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not halal to sell olives to olive oil, fresh sesame seeds that are not yet in the shell to sesame oil, fresh butter to melted plain oil. Because, this auction means selling an unknown amount of something to something with a certain amount in the dictionary. According to some, muzabana means shopping made by deceiving each other. According to his view, it is to sell the fruit on the tree in exchange for the harvested fruit, which is estimated to be equal to that amount. (Merginani, al-Hidaye,  vol. 3, p. 44). Müzabene: According to Imam-i  Malik, it consists of selling something whose size, number or weight is not certain, to something whose size, number or weight is certain. that is, Kabbalah (without measuring and weighing) becomes a sale. At the same time, granular things from them again 
Anyone who buys something in return for something obtained does not know whether he will get more or less than he gives. 
There is also the danger of being deceived. Malik says: Sorgun is a tree called al-bari  (sorgun tree) in Arabic. An oil is obtained by mixing the fragrance from the grains of the fruit. Its leaves are like willow leaves and have white flowers. Buying a grain of one grain of plain oil that has not been seasoned with a scent is also from an unknown shopping (bey'i garerden). Because it is an unseasoned oil extracted from sorghum grains. There is no harm in selling sorghum grains for scented oil. Because this scented oil mixes with good smells and its former simplicity is changed. 1952-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person sells a property to another person on condition that he does not sell it at a loss, this sale is not permissible. Because this could be cheating. This means that if the seller makes a profit, he hires the customer for that profit. If he sells that property to his main capital or deficiency, he will be left with nothing, his labor will be wasted, which is not true. In this case, the customer is paid in proportion to his labor. The loss or profit on this property belongs to the seller. It also happens when the goods are sold out. If it does not get out of hand, the trade between them is terminated. 1953-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man definitely sells a good to someone else, then the customer regrets it and tells the seller to lower the price a little, but the seller does not agree to this, and says, "You sell it, the loss is not yours", there is nothing wrong with it. there is no harm. Because this is not a deception, but something left to the customer. They had not made their contracts accordingly. In this regard, it is permissible. 
1954-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the trades made by means of mulâmasa and munababe.” Bukhari, Buyu, 43/63, Muslim, Buyu, 21/1, no: 1. 1955-) Mülâmese: It is buying a (durable) fabric in the dark at night by opening it and feeling it from the outside without looking inside, or without knowing what's inside. On the other hand, it is the shopping made by the seller and the customer, by throwing their own fabric to the other without thinking and saying that they are selling it in exchange for this fabric. This is the prohibited mulâmasa and munababe trade. 1956-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible to buy and sell a taylesan (the caftan worn by the scholars and notables) or a cloth wrapped in its top without opening it and looking inside. Such a purchase can be deceitful. Because this too is considered a mulâmasa. 1957-) Imam-i  Malik says: Selling full sacks according to a list is different from things like selling taylesan (caftan) in its packaging and cloth in balls. This difference has arisen from the way of treatment being done, the awareness of it by people and the practice of those who do this work. This continues as a permissible trade and a trade that is not harmed by people. Because the purpose of selling the sacks on the list without being opened is not deception. In this respect, it is not like a mulâmese. 1958-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our alliance, the agreed point on this issue is as follows: While a person brings the fabric he bought from one town to another and sells it there with murabaha (with profit), he buys commission and packaging fees, his own expenses and the rent of the shop. cannot be calculated by adding to the price. However, the shop is only rented for this item, otherwise, if the shop is not needed, then the rental fee is added to the price of the item. But this amount is not taken into account when calculating the profit. That is, it is added as unprofitable. (Cezîrî, al-Fikh  ale'l-Mezahibil-erbea,  vol.2, p. 279) In the Maliki school, murabaha is not actually one of the shopping that is a child. Because here it is necessary to explain many things such as the price of the goods and the expenses, which is impossible for the public. It may cause the transaction to be corrupt. Murabaha is valid for goods other than gold and silver. Ceziri, al-Fikh  ale'l-zahibu'l-erbea,  c. 2 H. 278-280). may add the shipping fee to the purchase price. Only he does not seek a profit in this, he adds it as unprofitable. If the seller reports all these expenses to the person who negotiated with him, and after he learns this, if he gives profit to the seller on top of all of them, there is no harm in doing so. 1959-) Imam-i  Malik says: Washing, sewing, dyeing and similar things are permanent with fabric. Profit is taken into account in this as well as in cloth. If the seller sells the cloth and doesn't reveal anything about it, he can't count the profits either. In this case, if the fabric is out of hand, it is counted from the price of the transport rental. But profit cannot be added to this rent. If the fabric is not out of hand, the trade between them is terminated. But if they come to an agreement with their own consent, their exchanges between them will be valid. 1960-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person buys a commodity in gold or silver, for example, on a day when ten dirhams is a dinar, and brings it to another town or sells it with murabaha at the price of the day he will sell it, if he buys it for dirhams. If he bought it with a dinar, or if he bought it with dinars and sold it with a dirham, and the goods have not been taken out yet, the customer is free. He can take it if he wants, leave it if he wants. If the goods are out of the hands of the seller, it remains with the customer at the price he has purchased, and the profit is calculated at the rate given by the customer at that price. 1961-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person sells a property that costs him a hundred dinars with a profit of one-tenth  (10%) and then realizes that this property costs him ninety dinars, and the goods are found out of his hands (received by the customer), it would be imaginary. . If he wishes, he takes the value of the goods on the day of receipt from him. However, if the value of the goods exceeds the price agreed at the first sale, he cannot buy more than this price. This is one hundred and ten dinars. 
If he wishes, profit is appreciated over ninety dinars. However, if the agreed price of the goods is less than the price on the day it was sold, the seller would choose between the agreed price and the principal and profit, which would be ninety dinars. 1962-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person sells a property with murabaha and says that this property cost me a hundred dinars, and then it is understood that 
this property costs one hundred and twenty dinars, the customer becomes an option. Either he pays the value of the goods to the seller on the day he is received, or he pays whatever he gets from the profit he gives to him. However, if this is lower than the price at which he bought the goods, then he cannot give the owner less than the price they have agreed upon. Because he had agreed to this price from the beginning. The owner demands more. At the same time, the customer does not have any evidence against the seller that he will reduce the price on the invoice in this regard. 1963-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the situation is as follows: A few people buy a piece of property, for example a cloth or fine fabric, and someone who hears this says to one of them: I learned the quality and condition of the fabric you bought. 
If I gave you such a profit on your share, would you sell it to me?" when he says: Yes.» Even if he sees the goods as poor quality and finds it expensive after he gives the profit and becomes a partner to the others instead, if he has bought it with certain qualifications and an invoice, this purchase has been finalized for him. It has no discretion. 1964-) Imam-i  Malik says: When a few kinds of fabric come to a person and the buyers gather near him, he reads the invoice to them: There are this many Basra sheets, this many Sabur sheets in each bale, and this is the size of it.' He says, explains the type and types of fabric to them and says: "Take it from me with these qualities", they buy the bales according to the qualities they were told, then they find it expensive when they open it and even if they regret it, if the thing sold is suitable for the invoice, they have to comply with it, they cannot go back. This is one of the practices people practice. They consider it permissible among them when there is no opposition to the 
property. in accordance with the invoice, 1965-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu
'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Each of the buyers and sellers are free to the other, until they separate from each other (from the sales council). However, their imagination continues until the time they get and agree on.” Bukhari, Buyu, 34/44; Muslim, Buyu, 22/10, no: 43; Shafii, Risale, no: 863; Shaybani, 785. 1966-) Imam-i  Malik says: We do not have a definite border or a known definition for it. Accordingly, no action is taken. Actually, according to Malikis, there is no discretion in the sales council. There is only "a shame" and "a shame". Because they are looking at the treatment of the people of Medina, saying that this hadith implies a suspicion because it is at the level of ahad. Their treatment was contrary to this hadith. But they prefer this because it is like tawatur. According to this, if the asshole assembly is stipulated, it will be valid. However, according to the Malikis, if the condition is stipulated, shopping becomes vicious. According to him, the asshole assembly is unconditionally fixed. In fact, if the absence of imagination is conditional, the trade will be superstitious. Because the asshole assembly is fixed not by ijtihad, but by nas. Therefore, it was one of the necessities of the contract. (Cezîrî, al-Fikh  ale'l-Mezahibul-Erbea:  c.2, pp. 170-173). Hÿyar-ÿ  Chart: The right of one or both parties to have options to terminate the contract within a certain period of time or to give permission. Hÿyar-ÿ  Ayÿb: The buyer's return or acceptance of the defective goods to the seller. Assembly: Starting from the acceptance and physical separation of the parties from each other. the right to unilaterally withdraw from the contract. 
1967-) Abdullah b. Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whenever two people do a trade, the 
word becomes the word of the seller. Or they give up on this trade.” 
Tirmidhi, Buyu, 12/43; Shaybani, if the 786th seller chooses and the goods are in his possession, after the expiry of the 
discretionary period, this will no longer make the purchase valid. In this case, if the goods are in the hands of the customer, the 
sale transaction becomes final, and the seller cannot take back the goods. The situation is still the same if the customer or both are optional. 

(Bâci, al-Münteka,  v.5, p. 59). 1968-) 
Imam-i  Malik says: If a person sells a property to another person and during the finalization of the sale: "I am selling this to you to 

consult with such and such person. If he agrees, our transaction is complete. If he does not agree, there is no transaction between 

us” and if they agree on it, and then the customer regrets before the seller consults with that person, this transaction becomes 

certain for both of them in terms of the qualifications they have stated. 
There is no discretion for the customer. If the seller wishes to accept with the terms, the same applies. 1969-) Imam-i  
Malik says: When someone buys a product from someone else and they have a disagreement about the price, for example, 

if the seller says: "I sold it to you for ten dinars", if the customer says: "I bought it for five dinars from you", in this case: Give that item 

to the customer at the price he said, or take an oath that you did not sell it for a price other than the price you quoted (ten dinars).” is 
called. If he takes an oath, this time the customer is told: "Either buy at the price the seller said, or swear that you did not buy at a price 

other than what he said (five dinars)". If he also takes an oath, it has nothing to do with the property. Because each of them makes a 
claim against the other. For when both take an oath, the word of one cannot be preferred over the other. When this happens, the trade 

between them is terminated. (Bâcî, el Münteka, vol. 5, p. 61). 

1970-) Abu Salih, the freed slave of Seffah, tells as follows: I sold fabric on loan to the people of a neighborhood in Dâr-i  Nahle 
Medina, where there were bezzazs (drapers). Then when I want to get out of there and go to Kufa 

they offered me to drop some of the money and pay the rest after this discount before it was time to pay. Zayd b. I asked Sabit (radiyallahu anh). He said: "I cannot command you to eat this money and give it to others". This expression shows that it is haram. If it was permissible, he would not forbid eating and feeding. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  Vol. 5, p. 65). 
1971-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): When asked about the situation of a man who deducted some of his 
deferred debt and bought the other part ahead of time, he did not tolerate it and forbade it. 
1972-) Zayd b. From Eslem: In the Age of Ignorance, the interest would be like this: A person who has a deferred 
receivable will tell his debtor when the time comes: Will you pay your debt or increase it?» he would say. If he gave, he would 
take it, if he couldn't, he would delay it for a while with the addition of interest. 1973-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, what 
is undisputed makruh in this regard is the situation in which a person who has a debt on one of them gives up a part of his debt, 
while the debtor pays the rest before the due date. Because this is like postponing the receivable after the payment time comes 
and the debtor paying him more. This, of course, is directly interest. 1974-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person has a hundred dinars 
receivable from another, when the time comes, the debtor says to him: "Sell me a commodity with a cash price of one hundred 
dinars with a deferred payment of one hundred and fifty dinars", this transaction would not be correct. Scientists forbid it. Malik 
says: This is makruh. Because in this case, the debtor paid the price of the thing he sold to the creditor with the same amount 
of the thing, and the creditor deferred the first hundred dinars for a second period, adding another fifty dinars to his receivable 
due to this delay, which is makruh and not true. at the same time Zayd b. 

It is similar to the hadith narrated by Aslem about the trades in the age of ignorance. When the time of their debt came, they 
would say to the debtor: Either pay the debt or increase it (pay interest). If he paid, they would get it, if he couldn't, they would 
increase the amount they would get and extend the time. 
1975-) It was narrated from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 
“It is cruelty for a rich person to delay his debt for no reason. When any of you is referred to a rich person (for payment of his 
debt), let him accept it.” he commanded. Bukhari, Hawalat, 38/1; Muslim, Musâkat, 22/7, no: 33. 

1976-) Musa b. It was narrated from Maysara: A man Said b. He asked Musayyeb: I am a person who sells on debt (what do you say)?» Said b. Musayyeb said: "Don't take delivery and sell something you don't have." 1977-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person buys a product from someone else to receive it after a certain period of time—which  may be due to the hope that that product will be popular in the markets, or because there is a need for that time—then  the seller will make this appointment. If the customer wants to return the goods to the seller because of the opposition to the time they have made, he cannot do so. This trade must match. But if the seller brings the goods before the appointed time arrives, the customer cannot be compelled to buy it. 1978-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person buys some wheat by measuring it himself, then when someone comes to buy from him and informs that he has received it by measuring it, if the second customer confirms it and wants to buy it with the same measure, the sale made in this way there is no shame. However, if it is due, it is makruh unless the second customer measures it for himself. It is makruh when it is due for the fear that it will lead to interest and this will turn into a disproportionate and weightless sale. In this respect, there is no disagreement about whether it is makruh when it is termed. 1979-) Imam-i  Malik says: Unless the debtor's acknowledgment is made, the debt of any person who is present or absent cannot be taken over. Even if he knows that he left property, the debt of the deceased cannot be inherited. There is uncertainty in this. Because (without the debtor's own acknowledgment) it cannot be known that he will collect his receivable in full. The reason why this is makruh is that the actual debtor's confession is not, so the exact amount of the absent or dead person's receivables cannot be known. If the deceased person owes money, his money will be wasted. (Because his debts are paid before the goods left by the deceased, he may be left with nothing.) There is another shame in this, which is this: If he cannot collect it because he has inherited something for which there is no guarantee for him, his money will be wasted. This is an uncertainty, it is not permissible. 1980-) Imam-i  Malik says: There is a difference between selling something that is with him and lending money by means of something that is not with him. ÿyne: It means that a person sells his property on credit and then buys it with cash in order to save it from interest in the same assembly. This is called "Take the Bey". Because the customer who buys the goods on credit receives the price of the goods exactly, in cash. In this case, if the customer requires the seller to buy that good at a certain price from him, it will be haram. The owner buys something for someone with the money he has with him and says, in order to earn interest: Here are ten dinars (for you to pay me fifteen dinars in the future) what do you want me to buy you with this? By giving the ten dinars he has in cash, it would be as if he had received fifteen dinars with interest in the future. This is not lawful. Because there is indirect interest. 1981-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person who sells fabrics from various classes in bulk makes an exception for some fabric with his ornaments and wishes, if he has made it a condition to choose ornaments and patterns from it, there is no harm in doing so. 
If he did not make it a condition to choose when he made an exception, he becomes a partner in the number of fabrics purchased from him. For example, if the variety he made an exception were thirty pieces and he made an exception of ten pieces from it, he would share one-third  of it. 
In other words, one third belongs to him and two thirds to the buyer. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  Vol. 5, p. 78). Although the ornaments and patterns of the two dresses are the same, their values may be different. 1982-) Imam-i  Malik says: In 
our opinion, there is no objection to the company, dissolution and mutual rescission, as long as there is no profit or deficiency in food and other things, whether they are received or not, and the payment of the money is not delayed. If a profit or shortfall intervenes in this, or if one of them (buyer and seller) delays what he has to pay, it is a sale. What makes shopping halal also makes it halal, and what makes shopping haram also makes it haram. This is neither a company, nor a trust, nor a rescission. 1983-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person buys a commodity, for example a cloth or fine fabric, then someone else wants to be a 
partner in it, and he accepts it and they pay the money together to the owner of the property, then this property is in their hands for any reason. If he perished, the partner gets his money from the one who made him a partner. He also asks for all the money from the seller. However, if the person making a partner stipulates that "Your commitment is on the person I bought it from", during the sale and at the time of bargaining with the first sale and before this dispute, this is also valid. When this conflict arises and reaches the first seller, the other's condition is void. The fault is his own. 
1984-) If someone says to another: "Buy this property jointly between the two of us and pay the money on my behalf. I will sell it to you", it would not be true. 1985-) Imam-i  Malik says: If someone buys a property, then someone else says to him: "Make me a partner in half of this property, If he says, "I'll sell the whole of it for you," that would be halal, he wouldn't mind. Because this is a new purchase. Here, the customer sells half of the property to his partner on the condition that he 
sells the other half for himself. 
1986-) Abu Bakr b. Abdurrahman b. Harris b. From Hisham: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Any person sells a property, the person who buys that property goes bankrupt, and the seller has not received anything from its price, but if he finds the same property, he can buy it. If the person who bought the property dies, the owner here is like other creditors.» Ibn Abdilber says: It is like that in all Muwattas. All narrators narrate from Malik as mursal. Abdurrezzak, on the other hand, narrates the mawsul. Shaybani, 787. 1987-) It was narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) "If a person goes bankrupt and one of his (creditors) finds his property exactly, the owner of that property is more worthy of the oboe than the others." he commanded. Bukhari, Istikrâd, 43/14; Muslim, Musâkat, 22/5, no: 22, 1988-) Imam-i  Malik says: Even if someone sells a piece of property to another (on loan), the customer goes bankrupt, if the seller finds the same item, he will buy it. Even if the customer has sold and reserved part of the property, the owner is more deserving of receiving it than other creditors. The fact that the customer divides that product does not prevent him from buying exactly what he found. Even though he took some of the price of the goods he sold, he returned it and took what he found from his property. If he/she  wishes, he/she  is deemed to be entitled to the part he/she  cannot find together with other creditors. 1989-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person buys any property, such as a thread, a commodity, (things like food and clothing), or a piece of land, then a business on this purchased thing, for example a building on the land. If he does it or weaves cloth from yarn, then goes bankrupt and the owner of the land says, "I will buy the land and the building on it", he cannot do this. But the land and the things the customer does there are valued. Then, the value of the land and buildings is investigated. Once this is determined, they too become partners. The land owner's share is his own, and the buildings are the other creditors. Malik says: For example, if the value of all of them is one thousand five hundred (1500) dirhams, and five hundred of the land and one thousand of the buildings are worth, one third will be left to the landlord and two thirds to other creditors. 1990-) Imam-i  Malik says: Thread and its like are like that. If such a change is made in them and the customer is in debt and cannot pay, the same treatment is applied here as well. 1991-) Imam-i  Malik says: The customer does not do anything for the goods sold. However, if this property becomes popular, its price rises and the owner wants to buy it, and the other creditors do not want it to be given to the owner, then the creditors either pay the owner the full price at the price they sold to the owner and take the property, or deliver the property to the original owner. If the price of the good has decreased, the seller will choose between two things. Either he takes his property and does not want anything on it; Or he gets his share along with other creditors. 1992-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person (on loan) buys a concubine or an animal and this one (concubine or animal) goes bankrupt after giving birth with him, it remains with the seller along with the concubine or animal cub. However, if other creditors want it to remain theirs, they must give the seller full credit. 
1993-) It was narrated from Abu Rafi (radiy-Allâhu  anh), the freed slave of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam), that: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) borrowed a young camel. Finally, a lot of camels from zakat goods came to him. Since zakat property was not halal for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), it is possible that he borrowed this camel for one of the people of zakat. Or, after this camel, which is one of the wealth of zakat, has reached its place. 
He may have come to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) later, either by purchase or by other means. If it is bought for someone from the people of zakat, it is permissible to give it from that property. If he bought it for himself, it can be given when it is bought after reaching the place. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  Vol. 5, p. 96). Rafi' says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered me to give that man his young camel. I said: I could not find any other camel other than a good seven-year-old  camel among the camels. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Give it to that man. Because the best of people is the one who gives the most in giving.” he commanded. Muslim, Musâkat, 22/22, no: 118; Shafii, Risale, no: 1606 1994-) It was reported from Mujahid: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) borrowed a few dirhams from a man. Then he paid that debt with better dirhams. The man said: "O Abu Abdurrahman! These are better than the dirhams I gave you.” said. Abdullah b. Omar said: "I know, but my heart wanted it that way". The superiority understood from this is the superiority in qualification. Otherwise, if the amount is excessive, it is not permissible. 1995-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person who lends gold, silver, food or animals can take something better than he has given, if there is no condition or custom between them. If such a condition is a promise or custom, it is makruh and not permissible. Malik says: Because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave a better seven-year-old  camel to replace the young camel he borrowed. Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) gave more than the dirhams he borrowed. If this borrower comes to his heart, if there is no condition, promise or agreement, it will be halal, there is no problem. 1996-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Umar 
b. 
Khattab (radiyallahu anh) did not approve of someone lending food to another to buy in another town. "Where's his shipping cost?" said. This shows that he forbade it and that it is haram. Because when it stipulates that it is delivered in another city, transportation costs are added to it. This would be a surplus. It counts as interest. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  Vol. 5, 

p. 
98). 1997-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: A man Abdullah b. He came to Umar (radiyallahu anh) and said: O Abu Abdurrahman Abdullah b. It is the nickname of Omar, I loaned a man a loan and stipulated that he should give more than I gave». Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: This is interest. Man: How do you order me to do it, O Abu Abdurrahman?» When Abdullah b. Omar (radiyallahu anh): There are three ways to lend money: 1998-) Abdullah b. It was narrated that Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: "Whoever gives a loan should not stipulate anything other than that it should be paid in full." 1999-) From Imam-i  Malik: Abdullah b. It was narrated that Masud (radiyallahu anh) said: "Whoever lends a loan, should not make it a condition to take more than it. Even if it is a pinch of grass, it is interest.” 2000-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the point agreed upon is this: There is no harm in borrowing an animal with certain qualifications and forms. An animal like him must pay. However, if it is a concubine who is asked to borrow money, it is feared that it will cause something that is not halal to be considered halal, and it will not be correct. That is, it would not be right for a person to borrow a concubine and have sex with her, and then return the same concubine to her owner. This is not halal, scholars forbid it and do not give anyone a license to do so. In other words, it is not halal for concubines to borrow money. Abu Hanifa, Imam Shafii and Cumhur-i  Fukaha also hold this view. (Bâci, al-Münteka:  Vol. 5, p. 99). 


2001-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "None of you should sell on the sale of someone else." Bukhari, Buyu, 34/58; Muslim, Buyu, 21/4, no: 7; Shaybanî, 784. Here is what happens: After the seller and the customer have agreed on the price of a good, another one, without making a contract yet, harms the first seller by saying, "I will sell you just such a good at a lower price, or I will give you a better one for this price". gives. It could be this way: After the seller and the customer agree on a price, another person says: "I'm giving this item a higher price", and the seller sells it to him. These two ways, which will occur after the seller and the customer agree on the price, are makruh tahrimen according to Hanafis, and haram according to Shafi'i, Maliki and Hanbalis. However, as long as they do not have an agreement on a certain price, it is permissible to sell by auction. (Cezîrî, al-Fikh  ale'l-Mezahibu'l-Erbea:  vol. 2, pp. 277-278). 2002-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Do not greet people who bring goods to the market for sale on the road (to get their goods before entering the market and knowing the prices). Do not let any of you sell on someone else's sale. Even if you do not want to buy a product, we do not increase the price to anger the customer. A city dweller should not sell on behalf of a Bedouin (who lives in the fields and oases). It happens like this: A broker (broker) in the city buys the goods of a person who brings goods from the provinces to the city, puts them on the market little by little, people fall into a shortage, so the price rises. According to Hanafis, if this is done at a time when the public is in need and the market is shrinking, it is makruh tahrimen. It is not makruh if it happens in times of abundance and when people do not need it. (Cezîrî, al-Fikh  ale'l-Mezahibi'l-Erbea,  Vol. 2, p. 276). Here, one of the aims of the Messenger of Allah is to sell the goods from the producer to the consumer and to remove the middleman. Also, as in our time, brokers may cheat on the price and quantity of the goods, so that the peasant will benefit, and the consumer may have bought the goods more expensive. Do not leave the milk ready to be milked in the udders of camels and sheep (for the customer to see big and think too much). A person is such an animal 
If he takes it, he can milk it and after understanding the situation, he can choose one of two things: He either accepts it as it is, or gives it back with one sa' of dates. » One sa of dates given with it is given as the price of milk or to eliminate strife. Instead, value or other items may also be given. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  Vol. 5, p. 106). Bukhari, 34 -Buyu 64; Muslim, Buyu, 21/4, no: 11. 2003-) Imam-i  Malik says: The interpretation of the statement of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam): No one among you should sell on the sale of someone else' is as follows; While the seller turns to the customer he is negotiating with and starts to count the conditions of collecting the money, the quality of the goods and other things that show that he wants to sell it, another person comes and wants to buy the goods by making a new bargain on the bargain of his Muslim brother, this is what is prohibited. 
2004-) Otherwise, there is no harm in participating in a bargain about a good that is offered for sale and that is being negotiated by many people, which would be an auction. If the people participating in the bargain leave it to the first bargainer, that goods will be bought at a price similar to falsehood and the goods of the sellers will be mixed with makruh. This is the verdict in our opinion. 2005-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade the Najashi (raising the price of goods by pretending to be a buyer, although there is no buyer). Bukhari, Buyu, 34/60; Muslim, Buyu, 21/4, no: 13. 2006-) Imam-
i Malik says: Necesh: It is the price of the seller's goods more than they are worth, in order for others to follow you and give you a high 
price, although your intention is not to buy. According to Shaybani, 772. According to Hanafis, it is makruh tahrimen if the price of the goods exceeds its value. (Cezîrî, al-Fikh  ale'I-Mezahibü'l-Erbeâ,  Vol. 2, p. 273). 
2007-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): A man This man's Habban b. It is narrated that he is Munkiz (radiyallahu anh). (Bâci, al-Münteka:  Vol. 5, p. 108). When you tell (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) that you have been deceived in shopping, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) said when you shopped: Do not cheat. This deception and cheating means not only selling a commodity expensively or buying it cheaply, but also hiding the defect and defect in the commodity. (Bâci, supra, vol. 5, p. 108). No, he said. Malik says: This man used to say, "There is no cheating," while shopping. Bukhari, Buyu, 34/48; Muslim, Buyu, 21/12, no: 48. See also. ÿeybanî, 788 2008-) Said b. Müseyyeb says: When you come to a place where the measure and weight are respected, stay there for a long time, and when you come to a place where the measure and scale are missing, do not stay there for long. Because, where measure and weight are respected, there will be goodness, justice and abundance. Those who stay in such a place for a long time will see no good. In a place where measure and weight are not respected, there will be no blessings in shopping. On the contrary, there will be injustice and oppression. These cause Allah's torment. (Bâci, supra, p. 5, p. 109). 
2009-) Muhammed b. Munkadir says: "Allah loves people who are willing to pay a small profit when selling, who give their money willingly when they buy, who pay their debts quickly and who do not bother their debtors." Bukhari (34-Buyû,  16) narrates it as 
merfu as Mutarrif. 2010-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person cannot buy camels, sheep, cloth, slaves or any other property that can be bought and sold with a lump sum. This needs some explanation. Things that are sold by numbers are divided into two: horses, camels, sheep, slaves and other animals, as well as those with various qualities, such as clothes, that it is not permissible to sell them to the kabbal (bulk). Those whose characteristics have not changed, such as walnuts (formerly sold by numbers) and eggs, are also permissible to sell with a lump sum, even though they are sold by numbers. 2011-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person assigns a price to someone else and gives something to sell on his behalf: “If you sell it at the price I quoted, I will give you a dinar—or  something else to be agreed upon between us. If you can't sell it at that price, I won't give you anything, there is nothing wrong with it. If he has determined the price he will sell and the price he will pay for this sale, the other gets that price when he buys at the same price. If he can't sell, he won't get anything. 
2012-) Imam-i  Malik says: This is also the case when someone says to another person: "If you can catch my escaped slave or my camel, I will pay you this much." This is a fee. Otherwise, he is not hiring the man. If it was a rental, it wouldn't be right for him not to pay when he couldn't catch the escaped. 2013-) Imam-i  Malik says: But if someone were given property and said, "Sell this, I will pay you this much for each dinar", it is not permissible. Because every dinar that will decrease in the price of the goods means that the wage he will receive will also decrease. There is an uncertainty because he does not know what to buy. Because when the price is not certain, the wage that the person who will do the work will not be determined. If the fee is not known, it is not permissible unless it is necessary. (Bâcî, al-Münteka v. 5, p. 112) The thing that Malik does not consider permissible is the things that can be easily counted because they are usually few and cannot be appreciated by measuring and weighing. Otherwise, it is also permissible to sell things that are sold by measure and weight. (Bâci, al-Münteka;  Vol. 5, p. 110). According to Hanife, for example, it is vicious to sell a flock of sheep by saying that each for this price or for each meter of cloth for that price. This is only the case if the value of the beginning and the end of the fabric are different from each other. According to Abu Hanifa, it is permissible only for one mistress. 
According to Imam Muhammad and Abu Yusuf, it is valid for all of them. According to the other three madhhab imams, the rule is the same. As for the sheep issue, even if he learns the number of sheep in the same assembly, according to Abu Hanifa, it does not turn into a sahih and remains a vice. However, if both the customer and the seller are satisfied, the contract of exchange can be realized by means of taâti (taking and giving without speaking). The rule is the same for things sold by numbers. Imam Muhammad and Abu According to Yusuf, all of these are permissible. Because it is in the hands of the customer and the seller to eliminate ignorance in this matter, (Ibn Abidin, Reddül-Muhtar,  volume 4, p. 540, Ibnu'l-Humam,  Fethül-Kadir,  volume 5, p. 475) 2014-) Imam -i Malik to Ibn Shihab; What do you say about someone hiring an animal and then renting it out to someone else for a higher fee?” he asked. He said: "There is nothing wrong with that." According to Maliki and Shafiis, he can rent it out to someone else, whether before or after delivery. According to Abu Hanifa, a person who rents such an animal or a house cannot rent it to someone else before receiving it. 
He cannot give more than the rented price after receiving it. It can be given at the same price. (Bâci, al-Münteka:  Vol. 5, p. 114). 2015-) Zayd narrated from his father, Eÿlem: Omar b. Abdullah and Ubeydullah (radiyallahu anh) sons of Khattab (radiyallahu anh) went on a campaign to Iraq with an army. On their return, they stopped by the Basra governor, Abu Musa al-Ash'ari.  Abu Musa al­Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh) welcomed them very well and said: "If I had a job that I could be useful to you, I would definitely do it." And then: Yes, here is some treasure belonging to the treasury. I want to send him to the Emiril Believer (caliph). Let me loan it to you, you can buy some goods from Iraq with it, sell it in Medina, and hand over the main money to the Caliph. The profit you make will belong to both of you.” said. They also accepted. Abu Musa al-Ash'ari  (radiyallahu anh) did so and Umar b. He wrote to Khattab (radiyallahu anh) to take the property from them. And when Ubeydullah (radiyallahu anh) came to Medina, they sold the goods they bought and made a profit. When they gave that property to Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: Did the whole army borrow money like you? she asked. And they said: "No". Thereupon, Umar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh): O sons of Emiril-Muminin,  so you took a loan, pay both the property and the profit.» Abdullah fell silent. Ubeydullah said: "O you amiral believer, this profit does not belong to you, because if this property was deficient or destroyed, we would still pay for it". When Hazrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said: “Pay it” again, Abdullah remained silent, while Ubeydullah objected in the same way. Abdullah's silence is due to the fact that he did not oppose him as a sign of respect for his father. Ubeydullah's answer was to demand his right by bringing evidence. After that, Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) said "Pay the goods and profits" again to emphasize that the owner of the capital has a right to the profit obtained from the goods. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  volume 5, p. 150) It is admirable that Caliph Ömer listened to the sign of the man next to him and accepted it exactly. This means that no matter how great a person's rank is in Islam, he should listen to the signs and criticisms of one of the people and evaluate him. 
Thus, it demonstrates the importance and usefulness of consultation and discussion. Thereupon, one of the people in the assembly of Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) declared: “If you exchange that property, O Commander of the Believers”. Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: I made him a kirad (mudabere)" and he took half of the capital and profit. His sons Abdullah and Ubeydullah (radiyallahu anh) also received the other half of the profit. 2016-) Ala b. Abdurrahman narrates from his grandfather and his father: Osman b. Affan (radiyallahu anh) Ala b. He gave qirad (a property, a capital as mudaraba) to Abdurrahman's grandfather in order to make the blood work jointly between them. 2017-) Imam-i  Malik says: Kirad (mudaraba = profit partnership), which is known to be permissible, without the responsibility of paying from someone's friend — when the capital is lost — The person who works takes the property and makes it work. However, it cannot be held responsible for the destruction of the goods. The damage belongs to the owner. Because the goods are entrusted to the recipient to operate. He must preserve it. However, if it is lost due to unforeseen reasons, it is not obliged to pay it. in the form of buying a property to run. The expenses of food and clothing during the absence of the profit partner when he goes on a journey related to the partnership are paid out of that goods in proportion to the amount of the goods, without going to waste. If he is doing this trade in his own country, clothing and expenses belong to him, it is not given from the capital. 2018-) Imam-i  Malik says: There is no harm in helping each of the partners to his friend. 
2019-) Again, there is no harm in the owner's unconditional purchase of some of the goods purchased by the person to whom he has given the goods. It is not permissible only if it is used as a gift in order to leave the property in his hands a little longer, or if it is for the purposes of getting something from the profit before the division. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  Vol. 5, p. 153). 2020-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person gives his slave and another man something to work together (with profits being shared between them), it is permissible, there is no objection. Because profit becomes the malt of his slave. He will not be his master until he gives up on him. Because he is a foreign person in his earnings, 2021-) Imam-i  Malik says: Even if a person has receivables from another person, if the debtor wants it to be left to him as rent (a capital to work), it is makruh unless the creditor takes delivery of his property. After receiving it, he gives it as a gift or not. Because there is a fear of squeezing the debtor because of his property. He also wants to be delayed in order to increase the property. 
2022-) Imam-i  Malik says: Even if a person gives a piece of property to someone else, if some of it is destroyed before starting to work, then he makes a profit by making that property work, and if the worker wants to capitalize on the part other than the destroyed property before he starts working. His word is not accepted. It is forced to supplement the original capital from its profit. Then, the remaining part of the capital is divided between the two according to the partnership conditions. 2023-) Imam-i  Malik says: Red can only be the same as gold or silver. It cannot be traded with other goods. As a matter of fact, there are some transactions that are not permissible when the rejection is not pleasant and the situation is different. This is said as an example. In other words, just as there are things that are makruh and haram in profit sharing, there are also things that are makruh and haram in shopping. As for the interest, a little or a lot of it is not permissible under any circumstances. Things that are permissible in other places are also not permissible in this regard. Because Allahu ta'ala says in the Qur'an: If you repent (interest), your capital is still yours. (Thus) you will neither be wronged nor be wronged. (In other words, you will neither get more nor less) » Baccarat: 2/279. 2024-) Imam-i  Malik states the following about a person who gives property to someone as a gift and stipulates that you will only buy these goods with my property, or says that you will not buy this property by stating: If he stipulates that you will not buy a certain property or animal), there is nothing wrong with that. However, it is makruh to stipulate to the person to whom the capital is given that you will not buy any other goods other than this or that. However, if the goods that he has ordered not to be taken are found in abundance and do not change in summer and winter, there is no harm in that either. 2025-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person gives another person a property as rent (capital) and puts forward a special profit condition separate from his partner, even if it is one dirham, it is not permissible. Because the stipulated amount may cover the entire profit. In this way, nothing will be left for the other partner. Therefore, it is not known who will get what. Therefore, if such a condition is stipulated, the agreement will be invalid. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  volume 5, p. 160). All of them are halal and it is a Muslim's profit partnership. But as a private profit for himself, apart from his friend; If he sets aside a dirham or something less and stipulates that the remaining profit is half between them, it will not be permissible. Muslim profit sharing is not like this. 2026-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible for the owner of capital to stipulate something special for himself from the profit, apart from the employee. Likewise, it is not permissible for the employee to stipulate a special profit for himself, apart from his friend. Again, together with profit partnership, shopping, rent, work, salam and anything that provides benefits that one of the partners would stipulate for himself apart from his friend cannot be found. In other words, a contract cannot cover all of them. A separate agreement must be made. However, if it is suitable for both of them, they can help unconditionally within certain measures. One of the partners cannot stipulate that he receives more gold, silver, wheat or anything else than his friend. If something of these enters the profit partnership, it becomes a lease. On the other hand, the rental is made only for a fixed and certain fee. The person who buys the property cannot make it a condition to receive the property but to give a reward (from it). He cannot help anyone from the common trade goods, nor can he buy anything for himself. When the goods increase, they divide the profit according to their agreement after the capital is separated. If the property has not gained or caused a loss, the employee does not need anything because of what he spent on himself and for the loss. In other words, if there is no profit to be divided after the capital is separated and given to its owner, there is nothing in favor or against the employee. If there is a loss, the employee will not be paid. Because he is considered a trustee, he is not obliged to pay it. Again, he does not pay the expenses incurred during his journey for the goods. All this belongs to the capital given by the owner. Profit sharing is permissible in a way that the owner and the employee (in terms of the division of profit) agree. The profit between them may also be half, a third, a quarter, less or more than that. 2027-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible for the person who buys the property as profit, to require the owner of the capital to work for many years without drawing the capital. Nor is it appropriate for the owner to stipulate that you will not return this property to me for so many years, by designating a time. Because qirad (mudaraba) is not for a certain time. According to Hanafis, it is permissible to record mudaraba in time. For example, stipulating that it only works in summer or winter or for so many years. When this period expires, the partnership also ends. (Cezîrî, al-Mezahibu'l-Erbea,  vol.3, p. 51). However, if the owner gives his property to someone who will make him work, if one of them wants to quit this job, he can quit. The owner receives the property. If a trade item is purchased with mudaraba goods, the owner of the capital cannot get his goods back unless that good is sold and transformed into the previous good. If the employee wants to return the capital as goods, he cannot do so either. However, he sells the item and returns the capital in the same (money) form as he received it. 2028-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person who gives capital to a person cannot stipulate that the zakat of that capital must be paid, especially from the profit pertaining to his share. Because when he stipulates this, he stipulates a fixed surplus for himself from the profit to be allocated to his share. Also, once the stipulated amount is subtracted from profit, there may be no other good left. This amount may cover the entire profit. As such, an employee's share 
nothing remains. Since this situation cannot be known, such a condition is also not permissible. (Bâci, al-Münteka:  c.5, p. 163). Again, it is not permissible for a person to make a condition for a person to whom he has given capital for the partnership, that he will buy goods from someone alone. According to Hanife, such a condition is permissible. This is because that person is a reliable person. There is also the interest of the partners in this. Because in that case, the working partner becomes a wage earner who works for an unknown wage. 2029-) Imam-i  Malik says about a person who gives a person a property in profit and stipulates the responsibility of paying it (in case of loss of property): It is not permissible for the owner to stipulate anything about his property other than the principles of redemption and the past customs of Muslims. Requiring payment responsibility to the person working in the profit partnership requires this contract to be vicious. Because in this contract, the goods are considered as escrow in the hands of the employee. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  Vol. 5, p. 164). If the goods increase on the condition of daman (responsibility to pay), the profit for himself will increase due to this liability. They also divide the profit between them as if they had given it without any responsibility to pay. If the property is destroyed, I do not see any responsibility on the profit partner who runs it. Because the obligation to pay (in mudaraba) is void. 2030-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person gives property to another person in the form of rent (capital) but requires him to buy only date palms or animals in order to protect himself by taking its fruit or progeny, this will not be permissible. The practices of Muslims in profit sharing are not like this. However, if he buys them and then sells them as other commercial goods are sold, it is permissible. 2031-) Imam-i  Malik says: There is no harm in the mudarib (working partner) requiring a servant to help the owner of the capital with his property. He cannot help him in other affairs by exceeding his service in the matter of that property alone. 2032-) Imam-i  Malik says: No one can give another person any property other than cash for profit sharing. Because there is no mukarada (profit partnership) in other goods. Because in commercial goods, mukara can only be done in one of two ways: Either the owner of the property says to his friend: "Buy and sell this property. It happens by saying "Buy other goods with its price and sell it with qirad (mudaraba)", in which case the owner stipulates for himself a surplus from the sale of his property and necessary expenses. Or: “Buy and sell this good, and then buy something for me as I have given you. If anything increases, we will divide it between us.” by saying it. In this case, maybe the owner gives the employee that good when it is in demand and at a time when the price is high. The employee may also have bought that good for a third or less by returning it at a time when it was cheaper. 
In this case, the employee gains half of the amount reduced from the price of the goods in his share of the profit. Or he buys the goods when 
the price is low. He works until he can multiply in his hands, then this good becomes more expensive, and when he returns it, the price rises, 
he can give all he has to buy it. 
Thus his work and effort go in vain. This is an uncertainty, it is not true. If this is done unknowingly, the fee of the person to whom the 
capital is given for making that sale and working is considered and paid. 
Then, from the day this property turns into cash and becomes money, it becomes mudaraba and is treated like similar mudarabas. In 
other words, when the goods are in the hands of the employee as money and become suitable for the mudaraba contract, the contract is 
corrected. For the former, the wage is paid to the employee who employs the capital. 2033-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person gives a 
property to another person as rent (capital), he buys an item with it and takes it to a town where he can trade, even if the prices fall there too 
and he is afraid of loss when he sells it, he pays rent and moves to another town. If he sells it at a loss by transferring it and the rent covers all 
of the original property, if the goods he sells meet the rent, there is nothing else to be done. If the cost of rent is more than the capital, it is not 
the owner of the capital who pays, but the employer of the money. Because the owner had ordered him to trade only in his goods. He does 
not pay anything for the excess rent. If such a thing were to be requested from the owner, there would be a debt on him other than the property 
he gave as capital, and the working partner cannot impose such a thing on the owner of the capital. 2034-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person gives 
a property to another person as rent (capital), and he makes a profit by making this property work, then he makes a merger with the profit of 
this property or by buying a concubine with that property, and this concubine from him. If she becomes pregnant and then the property is lost 
(damaged), if she has any property, the value of the concubine is taken from that property. 

The shortcoming of the goods is also paid. If there is a surplus after the goods are paid, it is divided between them on the first partnership. 
If there is not enough property, the concubine is sold and the goods are paid at its value. 2035-) 
Imam-i  Malik says: If a man gives a piece of property to another person in redemption, and he buys a commodity more than the 
capital by paying the shortfall, the owner of the capital becomes the owner of the capital, whether this property is sold with a profit, at 
a loss or not. If he wants to buy that property, he takes it and pays his debt. If he does not want to buy, he becomes a partner in profit 
and loss in proportion to the price of that good, taking into account that the employer adds the capital from his own side. 

2036-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person buys a property from someone else as profit, but gives it to someone else, and he works that property without the owner's permission, he will pay the first mudarÿp property. Because, giving the property to another person without the permission of the owner is deemed to be outside his authority. Therefore, he has to pay for the damage. (My translator). If the property is damaged, the damage belongs to him. If it makes a profit, the owner gets the profit he stipulated. Then the employee mudarÿp, back 
from the remainder he takes the required amount. 2037-) Imam-i  Malik says: When a person buys an item for himself by borrowing money from the rent (capital) in his hand, if he makes a profit, they divide it between them according to their conditions. If it hurts, it pays for itself. 2038-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person gives a piece of property to another person, if he borrows a little from this property and buys something for himself, the owner of the property will have a choice. If he wishes, he becomes a partner in that property according to his capital, if he wishes, he leaves it to his partner and takes all his capital from him. This is how it will be treated against all those who do injustice in this regard. 2039-) Imam-i  Malik says: When a person gives a piece of property to someone else in Qara, if that 
property is enough to cover expenses and the employee goes on a journey for that property, he can eat from it and dress normally 
in accordance with the amount of the property. If he has a lot of property and cannot afford to protect it, he can hire someone to help him and pay his wages out of that property. There may be some work that should not be done by him and should be done by someone else. Such as collection of receivables, packaging and transportation of goods. He can also hire someone from the capital to do them. But if he lives with his family—unless  he goes on a voyage to trade—he  cannot withdraw money from the capital for food and clothing. 2040-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person gives a piece of property to someone else, and he goes on a journey (for trade) with both that property and his own property, he will cover his expenses from both goods according to his shares. 2041-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person has money with him, he will cover the expenses of food and clothing from it. But he cannot donate anything of that property. He cannot give it to beggars and similar people, and he cannot reward anyone with it. But if he is with a group and they bring some food and he brings some food, it is permissible as long as he does not intend to offer a treat to the others. Because, mostly traveling companions, they also eat their meals together. In this respect, as long as it does not exceed the normal limit, there is no harm in it. If he turns to such a thing without the permission of the owner, he must ask for halal from him. If it is halal, nothing is needed. If it is not halal, he has to pay the same amount of what he spent. 2042-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the point that we agree on is this: If a person gives a piece of property to another in rent, he buys an item with it, sells it on credit and makes a profit, and then dies before receiving his debt, his heirs If they want, they can take delivery of that receivable. If they are sure about this, the profit stipulated to their father is their right. If they do not tolerate demanding the receivable and leave the owner and the debtor alone, they will not be held responsible for demanding it. That is, after transferring it to the owner, they do not get involved in profit and loss. If they collect that debt, the profit and alimony stipulated for their father belong to them. Because they are considered to be the representatives of their fathers in this matter. If they are not reliable in this regard, they can bring someone reliable and sure. When he collects all his property and earnings, they have the right of their father. 2043-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person gives a property as capital to someone else to work, he has a responsibility to pay for the things he sells on credit. If he sells on credit, he pays the owner. 
This liability exists when the owner makes it a condition not to sell it on credit and there is a loss in that sale. Because the mudarib would have exceeded his authority here. If there is profit in this sale, it will be divided between them according to their terms. Because the fact that he exceeded his authority by selling on credit does not reduce his right to profit. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  vol.5, p. 176). 2044-) Imam-i  Malik says: A man can also lend money to a person to whom he has given capital by making a profit partner. He can also borrow from her. The profit partner can buy and sell goods for the account of the capital owner without receiving any profit. Mutual assistance, which is not required by the partnership, will only be the result of religious brotherhood, there will be no afterthoughts from both sides, such cooperation will not be stipulated when establishing a partnership, and if I do not see my partner's business, the owner will not employ my capital, I will return it, and if I do not see my partner's business, he will withdraw his capital, and they will have no worries. Otherwise, the above cooperation will be out of place. Scholars did not allow such afterthought cooperation. 2045-) Imam-i  Malik says about a man who, after borrowing money from a man, wants that property to remain as capital, says: I do not find it appropriate unless he takes it from him, and after he receives it, he either gives it as capital or keeps it. 2046-) Imam-i  Malik says: Again, if a man gives someone else a property as capital (after he has worked for a while), he makes a profit, informs that the capital has increased and asks him to write it down as a loan, I do not like this either. After receiving his property, he either lends it to him or does not. This is due to the fear that the item is in short supply and the employee wants to delay payment of the item in order to make up for the missing item. Because this is makruh, it is not true. 2047-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person gives a piece of property to another person, if he makes a profit by working and he wants to get his own share of the profit while the owner of the capital is absent, it is not permissible to buy anything unless he owns the property. If he receives something that has not been calculated with the goods during its distribution, he has to pay it. 
2048-) It is not permissible for the shareholder and the working partner to settle accounts and separate from each other without the property being with them. The owner first receives his capital and then they divide the profit according to their agreement. 2049-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a debtor buys a property with the capital he has received, and his creditors call him and catch him with a profitable property in a town where there is no capital, and they want the property to be sold and the share that will fall from the profit, in this case They cannot receive anything from that profit until the owner comes and takes the capital and divides the profit according to their agreement. 2050-) Imam-i  Malik says: Again, a man gives a property to another as capital, and he gains profit by trading. Then, if he separates the capital, takes his own share by taxing the profit, adds the share of the capital owner to the capital and does this in the presence of witnesses, it is not permissible to divide the profit without the presence of the owner. If he has taken something, he will return it until the owner has received his capital and divided the rest according to their agreement. According to Hanafis, it would not be right to divide the profit before the owner receives the capital. If it is divided, it is stopped. That is, if the owner receives his capital, it will be valid. Otherwise, the division transaction will be invalid, and according to the Shafiis, profit may be divided even before the delivery of the capital. However, it cannot be divided before the commercial goods are sold completely and the capital is converted into cash. (Cezîrî, al-Fiqh  ale'l-el­Mezahibu'l Erbea, vol.3, 2051-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person gives a property to someone else as capital, he will make that property work and say to the owner: « This is your share of the profit. I bought this for myself. Your capital is also right next to me.” If so, I don't welcome it. All of the goods are ready, the owner is accounted for, the capital is revealed, he knows that it will reach him exactly, then they divide the profit between them. After that, he either gives the property to him or not. The necessity of the goods being ready is due to the employee's concern that he has reduced it and therefore wants it not to be taken from him and left in his possession. 2052-) Imam-i  Malik says: A man gives a property to another as capital, and he buys an item with it, the capitalist wants that item to be sold, and the buyer says, "I do not find it appropriate to sell," and if there is a disagreement between them, nothing happens. one's word is not taken into account. Experts who have experience about that item and understand this business are asked. If they see fit to be sold, the item is sold. If they deem it appropriate to wait, they will be kept on hold. 2053-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person takes capital from someone else, then when the capitalist asks for his property, if he answers, "Exactly with me", when he wants to buy his property, he also says: "This much of that property has lost in my presence. But if he says, "I told you so so that you would leave the property with me," it would not be beneficial for him to deny it after first admitting that he was with him. The property is taken (completely) upon his confession about himself. However, if he brings evidence to support his statement that the property is damaged, he will act accordingly. If he cannot bring any evidence, the goods are taken with his previous confession. Denial is of no use to him. The owner says: Again, in the same way, after saying "I made such a profit with the capital", when the capitalist asked for his profit with his property: "I did not gain anything with that capital. However, if he said, "I told you so, so that you would leave the capital in my hands," it would be of no use either. The goods are taken from him as he confessed. However, if he brings evidence to support his word and telling the truth, he does not have to pay for the property in full. 2054-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man gives capital to someone and he makes a profit with it, then the working partner will say to him: "You gave me capital, two thirds of the profit for me." If the owner says, "I have given you a third of the capital, one third of which is yours, the promise of the person who makes the money is accepted -if he complies with the partnership rules of that neighborhood, he is also given an oath". If it does not comply, what they say will not be accepted, and similar partnership procedures will be followed. 2055-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man gives a hundred dinars to another person in rent, and he buys a property with this money, then when he wants to pay the price, if the money is stolen, the owner of the capital says: “Sell the goods. Pay the owner. 
If it's too much, it's mine, if it's short, you complete it. Because you wasted the money.” says, the debtor says, “It is up to you to pay for the loss. If he says "I bought that good with the money you gave me", then the working partner has to pay the seller for the goods he bought. It is said to the owner of the capital: "If you want, pay one hundred dinars to the mudarib (employee), let the purchased goods be common between you and the current one hundred dinars as capital, if you want, stop your interest in that property". If he gives one hundred dinars to the profit partner, this too becomes a partnership, according to the terms of the initial partnership. If he does not, the property remains with the employer, and he pays the price. 2056-) Imam-i  Malik says: When the two profit partners separate from each other, invaluable and worthless things, such as the old pots and clothes that the employee uses, belong to the employee. I have not heard of anyone giving a fatwa about their return. Only things of value are returned. I find it appropriate for him to return what is left of things that have a name and value, such as animals, camels and goats. But if he gets halal from his owner because of these, he will not return it. 
2057-) Said b. From Musayyeb: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to the Jews of Khaybar on the day he conquered Khaybar: And just as Allah, the Exalted, made you reside here, the fruits (dates) from your gardens will be shared between us and you, so I will make you here (at your place). I'm leaving." said. Ibn Abdilber says: All Muwatta narrators, most Ibn Shihab narrators have narrated it as mursal. See. 
Shaybani, 831. b. Musayyeb says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said that Abdullah b. He would send Ravaha 
(radiyallahu anh). He estimates the amount of fresh dates on the trees, then says to them: If you want, you can keep 
it (if you pay for our share), if you want, I will take (our share) as dates.» he would say. and they would take those 
dates. As it is understood from this hadith, after the conquest, dates belonged to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and 
Muslims. These places were given to them by way of musâkat. Thus, in return for their work, some of the dates were 
left to their cats. After the amount was estimated, it was left to them through sales. Because they wanted to eat or sell 
when they were rutab (ie age). The Companions, on the other hand, took it only as temr (dry dates). (Bâci, al-Münteka,  
vol. 5 pp. 118-120) 
2058-) Süleyman b. from Yesar; Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam), Abdullah b. He would send Rawaha 
(radiyallahu anh) to Khaybar. He used to estimate the amount of fresh dates between them and the Jews. They 
gathered some ornaments for her from their women's ornaments and said: Take this, ignore us during the division and 
act in our favor. Abdullah b. Rawaha (radiyallahu anh) said: O Jewish community, I swear by Allah, you are one of the 
creatures that Allah hates the most in my opinion. By this he meant their disbelief and their enmity towards the 
Messenger of Allah (pbuh). As a matter of fact, Allahu ta'ala says regarding this: "You will find the Jews and those who 
associate partners with Allah the most severe of people in enmity with the believers." (Maida: 82). But this (your 
behavior) will not lead me to persecute and unjustly towards you. The bribe you want to give me is absolutely haram. 
We won't eat it." said. Thereupon they said: Thus do the earth and the heavens stand.” All muwatta is mursal in his 
narrations. they said. It is possible that they confessed the truth by this. They said this in order to avoid the punishment 
they thought would come to them and to show that they kept their word and were satisfied with what he did. (Bâci, al-
Münteka, Vol. 5, p. 121). 2059-) Imam-i  Malik says: When a man gives his date grove, which has an empty land, to the 
keeper, the agriculture that the caretaker will do in that empty place will belong to him. If the owner, in vain, stipulates 
that he should cultivate for himself, this would not be right. Because the working man grows the trees for the land 
owner. That would be an extra job. 

2060-) If it stipulates that agriculture should be common among them, there is no harm in it if all the expenses such 
as seeds, irrigation and work belong to the working man. But if the employee stipulates that the seed will belong to 
you, it will not be permissible. Because in this case, he would have stipulated a surplus against the owner. 
Musakat, on the other hand, takes place at the expense of the employee. Nothing is charged to the owner. This is 
the known form of the contest. 2061-) Imam-i  Malik says: When the water of a water cell (or well) that is common 
between two people is cut off, one of them wants to build and operate it, the other says: "I can't find anything to do." 
If he says, then to those who want to run it: “You do it and cover your expenses. All the water will be yours. You 
water the garden with your partner until they bring you half of what you spent. He gets his share of the water when 
he brings in half of what you spent.” is called. Here, all of the water is given to the first man, as he covers the 
expenses. If he does not get anything as a result of his work, the other does not pay anything at the expense. That is 
why it is more worthy of being entitled to water than the other. He also uses the first man until he pays his own 
expenses and becomes a partner. 2062-) Imam-i  Malik says: All alimony and expenses belong to the owner of the 

garden, and if the employee does not interfere with anything other than his work and gets paid from some of the fruits, 
this is not true. For, unless he appoints a certain thing and fights against it, he cannot know how much his wage will 
be, and he cannot determine whether he will receive a little or a lot. 2063-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible for 

any owner of capital or a person who gives his garden to a caretaker to make an exception from that property and that 
date palm (that is, to say that you will do this job only for me). Because then he becomes a paid worker. For example, 
if he says: "I am giving you my garden to look after so many date palms for you to work, water and grow, or I will give 

you this amount of capital on the condition that you employ ten dinars (the blood belongs to me), which is not from the 
mudaraba property that I will give you," this is not true. It's not okay. 

Such is the case with us. 
2064-) Imam-i  Malik says: The customs that it is permissible for the owner of the garden to stipulate the 
worker in the musakat; turning the garden walls, cleaning the water cells, scraping the channels, improving the dates, 
cleaning the roots, picking the fruits and so on. The gardener may be stipulated to give half, less or more of the fruit, 
according to their agreement. However, the real land owner cannot stipulate a new job for the employee, such as 
digging a well or opening a water cell. Nor can he stipulate that he plant a tree that he will bring his sapling from, or 
that he build a pool of water, which requires great expense. Because this means to any person of the garden owner; 
before the fruit grows and is lawful to sell: "Build a house for me here, or dig a well, or run a water, or do any work for 
me, for half of the fruit in my garden." as he says, which is to sell the fruits before they begin to ripen. However, the 
Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 

He forbade the sale of fruits before they began to ripen. 2065-) Imam-i  Malik says: After the fruits begin to ripen and it is halal to be sold, one man said to another: "Do these things for me on half of the fruits in this garden." there is nothing wrong with that. In this case, he will have worked for a certain fee. He sees it and accepts it. But when it comes to musatis, if there is no fruit in the garden, or if it is scarce or spoiled, the employee cannot get anything else. Workers are employed only for a certain fee. Working for a fee is also considered a kind of shopping. The employer buys the business from him. This is not true when it comes to deception. Because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade shopping, which is deception and deception. 2066-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our sunnah, musakat is permissible on all date, olive, peach trees, grape vines and similar things. According to the Shafis, musâkat is permissible only for dates and grapes, not for others. According to Hanafis, it is permissible for all plants that stay on the ground for a year or more, whether they bear fruit or not. (al-Fiqhu  al-Mezahibul-Erbea,  vol. 3, p. 25 and 28) The owner may agree to receive half, one-third,  one-fourth,  or less or more of the fruits. 2067-) Imam-i  Malik says: Again, musakat is permissible in agricultural plants. When agricultural plants rise from the ground and their owner is incapable of watering and working and cultivating, they can be given to the partnership, it is permissible. 
In one of the halal things, when the fruits ripen and develop and can be sold, it is no longer allowed. Because musakat is to be a partner in the produce that will be produced by working in someone else's garden. When the fruits are ripe and ready to be sold, there is no need for labor and service. 
it is not possible. 
2068-) In such a case, the competition is only made for the next year. A concession to be made on fruits that are halal to be sold is leased. Because in this case, he would have made an agreement with the owner of the garden to protect the ripened fruits and to collect and cut them. This is in the amount of money that the owner will give him (as a wage). This is also not acceptable. The permissiveness is made only between the pruning of the trees and the ripening of the fruits. 2069-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person gives his garden to a partner before the fruits are ripe and ready to be sold, this is permissible as it is permissible. 2070-) Imam-i  Malik says; It is not permissible to give an empty land to a partner by way of musakat. Its owner can give money or a similar value. 
2071-) But if a man leases his vacant land for one-third  or one-fourth  of the product to be rented from there, there may be uncertainty. It is not permissible by Malikis to rent an empty land in return for some of the things to be obtained from it. According to Abu Hanifa, it is permissible. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  volume 5 p. 132). Because agricultural products are once less, once more. Sometimes it will be completely destroyed. As such, the landlord leaves a certain amount of rent at which he can lease his land and takes on a job that may be uncertain whether it will be completed or not. This is makruh. For this is a man's charge for a certain thing for a journey, and then to him: "Shall I give you a tenth of what I earn in wages this time?" It is like saying that this is not permissible. 2072-) Imam-i  Malik says: A man can work for wages, rent his land and ship, but only for a certain fee that he will receive himself. 2073-) Imam-i  Malik says: The difference between date palm holder and vacant land is due to this: The owner of the date cannot sell the fruits until they are ripe. The owner of the land can rent it even though there is nothing there, that is, it is empty. 2074-) Imam-i  Malik says: Date palms can also be given to the partner for three years, four years or less or more through musakat. 
2075-) This is what I heard. Other trees are like dates. What is permissible in one is permissible in the other. 2076-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person who gives his garden through musakat cannot get more gold, silver, food or anything else from the other party. This is not true. Likewise, an employee cannot receive such a thing from the garden owner. This multiplicity between them is not permissible. 2077-) Imam-i  Malik says: Likewise, the profit partner is in this situation. If there is excess in musakat or mudaraba, there is a fee. It wouldn't be right if they were charged a fee. It is not permissible to work for a wage in a place where it is not known whether it will be profitable, whether it will be less or more, and where there may be uncertainty. 2078-) Imam-i  Malik says: When a man gives his land with dates, grape vines and similar trees to someone else through musakat, even if there are vacant lands, if those spaces are never subordinate, and the original land covers a large part of it. or if it constitutes the majority, there is no harm in making a contest there. Even if the date palm is two-thirds  or more, and its empty part is one-third  or less, then the gap will never be subordinated. If there are dates, grape vines and similar trees on the vacant land and the actual land is one-third  or less, but the space is two-thirds  or more, then it is permissible to rent it out. Permissible if it is permissible 
is not. Giving a tree-filled  land with an empty space to the partner through musakat, renting out a vacant land with few trees, or selling a silver-adorned  mushafi or sword for silver, selling a ring or necklace with eyebrows and gold in it for dinars are among the things people do. This transaction continues as permissible. In this regard, nothing (a quick evidence) has come to explain this, that if there is this much, it will be haram, and if it is less than that, it will be halal. In other words, there was no serial rule determining the limit of whether it is permissible or not. One third of it is stated by the ijtihad of scholars. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  Vol. 5, p. 138). According to this, what people do and regard as permissible among themselves is this: If gold and silver are subject to what they contain, it is permissible to sell them. For example, if the iron of the sword, the eyebrow of the ring or the mushaf is two-thirds  or more, the value of gold and silver ornaments is one-third  or less. That is, it is permissible to sell them for gold or silver. 2079-) Imam-i  Malik says: The most beautiful thing heard about the worker slaves that the worker in the musakat will stipulate to the owner is that there is no harm in it. Because they are the workers of the commodity. They are like property. There is no benefit to the employee. However, because of them, his work will be lighter. Without them, he will have difficulties in business. 
This is the same as irrigation with spring and carrying water. You will not find a person who is allowed under the same conditions in two lands, one of which was irrigated with abundant spring water and the other with transport water, although they were once equal in terms of trees and benefits. Because the labor to be given to the spring water is light, the labor to be given to the transport water is heavy. This is the verdict in our opinion. The minister cannot employ the worker slaves working there in another place, and cannot make this a condition for anyone to whom he gives permission. 2080-) Imam-i  Malik; He says: It is not permissible for the person who looks after the garden to stipulate to the owner that the slaves who were not there at the time of the settlement agreement should work in the garden. Because, this would be an excess on the conditions of musaqah, which is also not true. 2081-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible for the owner to make it a condition for the person who looks after the garden to take out one of the slaves who served there. 2082-) Imam-i  Malik says: A musakat on a land is made on the condition it is in during the contract. If the owner wishes to remove one of the slaves serving there, he should do so before the concession agreement. 
After that, he can make a deal if he wishes. if someone dies, disappears or becomes ill, the owner must bring someone else in his place. 2083-) Hanzala b. Kays' Rafi' b. According to a hadith, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade leasing agricultural lands. Muslim, 21/ Buyû, 19, no: 115. says: Rafi' b. To Hadid: Even in exchange for gold and silver?” When I asked him: There is no harm even in exchange for gold and silver.” he replied. 2084-) From Ibn Shihab: Said b. When I asked Musayyeb to rent the lands in exchange for gold and silver, he replied: "There is nothing wrong with it". 2085-) In Ibn Shihab: Salim b. When I asked Abdullah to rent the agricultural lands to Omar, he said: It is okay if it is in exchange for gold and silver (money).» he replied. Shihab says to him: Rafi b. What do you think about the hadith narrated from Hadith?» When I said: Rafi made many narrations that led to undesirable meanings. That is, he narrated what is prohibited and what is not prohibited among the prohibitions. (al Munteka, vol. 5, p. 143). If I had an agricultural land, I would rent it out,” he replied. On another note, see Shaybani, 830. This is proof that he considers it permissible. 2086-) According to what is reported to Imam-i  Malik, Abdurrahman b. Avf leased a piece of land. He remained on rent until his death. His son said: I thought it was ours because it was in my father's hands for a long time. He told us about it as he was dying, and ordered the payment of the debt on the gold or silver, which is the rent there.” 
2087-) Hisham b. According to what is reported from Urwa, his father used to rent his land in exchange for gold and silver (money). 
2088-) When Imam-i  Malik was asked about the situation of a man who rented his agricultural land in return for a hundred hours of dates or wheat or something else, he did not tolerate this. 2089-) Abdurrahman b. From Abu Salama, son of Awf: The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) decreed that there is security in the common goods that can be divided among the partners. There is no right to preemption where there is a border between partners. Ibn Abdilber says: Most Muwatta narrators have narrated from Malik and others as mursal. Malik says: This is how we act unanimously. 2090-) Said b. Al-Museyyeb  was asked: Is there a principle in Shuf?» Said: Yes, Shufa happens in houses, on the land, and only among 
partners. 
2091-) Malik'e Suleyman b. A similar hadith was reported from Yesar. 2092-) Imam-i  Malik says: A man took a piece of land belonging to a community by giving a slave or a concubine or similar commodities. Then one of the partners came and took the land back by using his right of preemption, but (in the meantime) the slave or concubine had died. No one knew their worth. Thereupon, the customer said: “Your slave 
And the value of the concubine is one hundred dinars,” he said. “No, fifty dinars,” said the partner, the owner of the sufa. Malik (on this subject) says: The customer swears that the price he gives is worth a hundred dinars. Then, if the owner wishes (by giving this amount, he takes the purchased land) back, he does not take it if he wants. However, if the owner proves that the value of the slave or concubine is lower than what the customer says, he will buy it at that price. 2093-) Imam-i  Malik says: If someone donates a part of a common land or house, the donor also gives money or property to the donor in return for the thing donated, if the partners want, they can give the donated dinar or dirham to the donated person. they can get it. 2094-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person donates a common land or house, he does not receive anything in return and does not want what he has donated back. If something is given in return, the owner of the partner has the right to receive it by paying the price of what is given. 2095-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person has bought a piece of common land for a sale price until a certain time on credit. If the partner is rich, he can buy it for the same price until the same time, by chufa. If it is feared that the partner will not be able to pay the money in the same time period, if he brings a reliable and wealthy guarantor like the man who can buy this joint piece of land from the owner, this right is granted to him as well. 2097-) Imam-i  Malik says: A (deceased) man inherits a land to his children, then the children of one of the children are born, then the father dies, and if one of his children sells his right on this land, the seller's brother is one of his uncles, who are his father's partners. comes first in terms of the right of preemption. Malik says: This is how we think the rule is. 2098-) Sufa is between the partners in the amount of their shares. In the Hanafi school, it is not according to the shares of the shareholders, but according to the number of them. Each receives in proportion to his share. If his share is less, he will buy less, if he has more, he will buy more. This is the case when the partners claim that their shares are in excess in Shufa. 
2099-) If a man buys his share from one of the shareholders and another shareholder says: “I will get my share from the pre­emption”, and the customer says: “You either get all of it or not at all”, the one who wants the right to preemption either gets all of it, or he also gives up his right. When you want to take it, the right is yours. 2100-) Imam-i  Malik says: A man takes a whole piece of land and after he has built it with a permanent thing like planting trees or building a well or by digging a well, a second person proves that he has a right to a part of that land beforehand, and takes the whole land by way of intercession. If he wishes, he has no right to take this land from the hand of that man unless he gives the value of what he has built by supplication. If he appreciates the things he has done in the land, he can take the land through secession. The client's development of a land can be done in two ways: a) The things he does are either rooted things that remain fixed on the land. Like building, planting trees, digging a well. b) Or they are temporary things that do not remain constant. It's like planting crops and improving the land. In this second part, there is no preemptive right. If he enters the first part, if the owner gives the value of the things done on the land, he has the right to preemption. If he doesn't, he can't claim rights. In fact, he does not have the right to buy his own share, unless he gives the value of the things done on his share. It cannot order the client to demolish the building or uproot trees. Because the buyer made them with the conviction that they are his own property. If the shareholder does not want to value what has been done, the client is asked to give the value of the shareholder's share. If he also does not want to give, the customer becomes a partner in this share in return for the value of the shareholder's share. 2101-) Imam-i Malik says: When a person who sells his share in a common house or land learns that the shareholder will receive it by preemption, a mutual rescission with the customer at his own request (to prevent it) is the cancellation of a sale by the parties. If they do, it cannot prevent the right, the owner has the right to buy that share in return for the money sold by the owner. If the shareholder buys a piece of land or a house, together with animals and commodities, by bargaining, and the shareholder wants to buy only the plot or a share in the land by preemption, the customer will say, “Take all that I have bought, because I have them all at once. If he says "I bought it", Imam-i  Malik says on this subject: The shareholder gets the share in the land or house by giving only the amount of their share from the price given to all of them. Everything the customer buys is separated from the others at the price at which it can be purchased separately. Then, the owner of the preemption receives the share he will receive in exchange for the value corresponding to his share of the general price. If he doesn't want to, he may not get any of the animals and meta. 2103-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person sells a part of the common land, some of the shareholders transfer their rights here to the seller, and if they do not transfer the others but want to buy as much as their shares by using their preemption rights, those who have not transferred their pre-emption  rights can buy the whole share. They do not have the right to buy as much as their shares and leave the rest. 2104-) Imam-i  Malik says: If there is a multi-partner  land, one of the shareholders is ready, while the others are not, a shareholder wants to sell his share, and the existing person is offered to buy or give up this share by using his preemptive right, and he says, "I will share my share in this piece. I buy it, I leave the shares until my other partners come. If they say, "If they buy their shares in this piece, they will buy it, if they don't, I will buy all the shares", this person has no right other than to buy the whole share or to give up immediately. Then (if he takes) the partners come, they can take it from him if they want or leave it to him. If this person does not accept the offer made to him, I do not think that the right will continue. 
2105-) Osman b. Affan (radiyallahu anh) says: "There is no question of suf'a in the land with certain boundaries (in the garden of the house), the well and the male date palm garden. If there is no garden to be grafted, then its ruling is like a date, that it can be suffused. There is no shuf in his tree.» Malik says: This is how we think the rule is. 2106-) Imam-i Malik says: Whether it can be divided or not, there is no suffus on the roads and in the garden of the house. partners have no right to suffocation on this land. Because with the division of the houses, the land becomes promiscuous and ceases to be subordinate to the houses. not for Shuf. 2108-) Imam-i  Malik says: A man has bought a piece of common land on condition that it is free. 
If the partners want to buy this place sold by the seller partner through suffa, without the customer definitively agreeing to buy it, the rights of the vendor will not be fixed until the customer buys that part and the sale is fixed. If the sale is finalized, the rights to the suf will also be fixed. 2109-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person buys a piece of land and the land remains in his possession for a while, then if another man claims that he has a share in that land by inheritance, his right to suffocation becomes fixed. If the land generates income, it is the first customer until the day when the income entitlement is fixed. Because, if the trees planted in the field perish or if it floods, the first customer will swallow it. If it is long or witnesses die, or the seller or the buyer dies, or both are alive, if the shopping is forgotten because it has been a long time, there is no right of pre-emption. The man only gets his fixed stake. If the situation of the man is not as above regarding the imminent sale, and he thinks that the dealer concealed the price of the land in order to cancel the right of the owner, the land is evaluated over the estimated value and the price of the land is based on the new value. Then the buildings added to the land, trees and other repairs are looked at. Thus, first the condition of the land that the customer bought for a certain price, then the building he built on this land and the trees he planted are evaluated. After that, the owner takes the land. 2110-) Imam-i  Malik says: Shufa takes place in the property of a dead person as well as in the property of a living person. 
If they are afraid that the value of the deceased's property will decrease (because it is rich), they divide the property first and then sell it. Thus, these people do not have the right to preemption on the property. 2111-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, there is no safety in slaves, concubines, camels, cows, sheep, other animals, cloth and a well without water. It is on the land that can be divided and border can be drawn. There is no shufa in things that are not accepted. 2112-) Imam-i Malik says: If a person buys a land in the presence of the shareholders (if he wants to cancel the preemption right of the shareholders), he takes them before the judge. In this way, they either have the right of preemption, or the judge cancels these rights and delivers the land to the customer, if the customer does not take them to court, they do not demand preemption until a long time has passed, even though they know that the customer has bought (this land). 2113-) Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu  anha), the wife of our master, said: “I am human (I can be wrong) He states that he does not know the ghayb by saying that he is human, and that he cannot distinguish the right from the wrong without apparent evidence, and informs that there is no difference between him and other judges in this regard. Because he can only know the unseen through revelation, and since this world is a place of offer, he gave his judgments according to the methods of other judges while giving judgments. And from what I've heard from him, I'll rule in his favour. According to Imam-i  Malik, the judge should act not on what he knows, but on what he hears (from the witnesses in the court). In this regard, Abu Hanifa and Shafi'i are of the opinion that if what they know conflicts with what they know, they should generally judge according to what they know. Therefore, whoever I have judged anything from his brother's rights, should not take it away from his brother. Because I cut a piece of (hell) fire for him.” Bukhari, Shahadat, 52/27; Muslim, Akdiye, 30/3, no: 4. It means that the misguided judgment of the judge does not require that a right be anyone other than the owner of the right and does not make it permissible. Because that right becomes a part of the fire of hell. Accordingly, the judge's decision cannot make a halal haram or a haram halal. For example, if a person claims with false witnesses that a foreign woman is his wife, and the judge decides on this, it will not be lawful for this person to have intercourse with that woman. According to Abu Hanifa, it is halal. Because the judgment given by the judge is valid both externally and internally. This process takes the place of marriage. (Bâcî al-Munteka,  vol.5, p.182). 
2114-) Said b. From Müseyyeb (radiy-Allâhu  anh): A Muslim and a Jew, Hadrat Umar b. They were judged in the presence of al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh). Seeing that the Jew was right in Hadrat Umar (radiyallahu anh), he decided in his favor. Thereupon, the Jew said to Hazrat Umar: By Allah, you have judged correctly. Hazrat Umar hit him with the whip. Hadrat 'Umar must have punished the Jew for speaking definitively on a matter based on ijtihad, that is conjecture, or because he took an oath about something he did not know. 
punished. Another possibility is that with this word, the Jew purified Hazrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh), and he punished the Jew for 
finding it strange. Then: How did you know?” she asked. The Jew replied to him: We know that every judge we know for his righteous 
judgment has an angel to his right and an angel to his left. 
As long as these angels are with that prevailing truth, they straighten it and bring it to the truth. If the judge really leaves, the 
angels will ascend (to the sky) and leave that judge.» 
2115-) Zayd b. From Khalid al-Juhani  (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Shall I not inform you of the best 
witness? He is a person who testifies without being asked, or who declares that he is a witness without being asked. Muslim, Akdiye, 
30/9, no: 19. 
2116-) Rabia b. Abi Abdurrahman said: Umar b. An Iraqi man came to al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh): I came to you for a job that 
has no beginning and no end.» said, Hazrat Umar: What is it? said. The man replied: False testimony that has emerged in our country. 
Hadrat 'Umar said: Did it really happen?' said. When the man said, "Yes", Hadrat Umar said: "No one in Islam is imprisoned with the 
martyrdom of sinners." 
2117-) According to what was reported to Malik, Umar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh): "The witness of the enemy and the accused 
is not permissible." According to the Hanafi school, it is not permissible for the enemy to testify for worldly reasons. For this reason, 
witnessing is haram. In this way, I can show my hostility. However, if it is just, his testimony is accepted according to the sound and 
trusted opinion. (Dâmâd, Mecmau'l-Enhur,  c.2, p.197-8). said. 
2118-) Süleyman b. To Yasar and others: "Is it permissible to testify of a person who has been subjected to hadd?" he was asked. 
And they said: "If he has repented, yes." they said. 
2119-) Imam-i  Malik says: Ibn Shihab was also asked about this issue: He was Suleiman b. Answer as Yesar said 

gave. 

2120-) Imam-i  Malik says: This is how we think the rule is. This judgment was given because of Allah's command: “Those 
who accuse chaste women and then fail to bring four witnesses, slap eighty lashes, and do not accept their testimonies again. 
They are noble people. However, Allah forgives those who repent of what they have done and correct themselves. He forgives his 
sins.” Nur, 24/4,5. Malik says: According to us, the unanimously accepted verdict is that the testimony of a person who has been 
limited and then repented and reformed himself is permissible. Of all the things I've heard on this subject, this is my favorite. According 
to Abu Ilanife, even if a person who is punished for slander and other crimes repents, his testimony is not accepted forever (Bâci, 
Münteka, v.5, p. 207). 
2121-) From Cafer's father, Muhammad (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) decreed that 
an oath be taken with the witness.10 2122-) From Ebuz-Zinad:  Ömer b. Abdulaziz, the governor of Kufa Zeyd b. al-Khattab's  
grandson Abdulhamid b. 
He wrote to Abdurrahman: Decide by oath with the witness.” Ibn Abdilber says: Muwatta is mursal. 
See also Muslim, Akdÿye, 30/2, no: 3. Abu Hanifa generally does not consider it permissible to pass judgment by taking an oath 
together with a witness. (Bâcî el-Münteka,  vol.5, p.208). 
2123-) It was reported to Malik: Abdurrahman's son Abu Salama and Sulayman b. To Yesar: Can it be ruled with a witness and 
an oath?» he was asked. They said yes. 2124-) Imam-i  Malik says: The practice (implementation) was in the form of making a 
decision to take an oath with a witness. The owner of the right takes an oath together with the witness and is entitled to receive 
his right. If he refrains from taking an oath, the other party is sworn in. If he takes an oath, the person claiming to be right loses that 
right. If the other party refrains from taking an oath, the right will be in favor of the plaintiff against him. According to the Hanafi 
school, apart from the hadds, retaliation and things that men cannot see, it is obligatory to have two male or one male and two 
female witnesses. The situation does not change whether the subject of witnessing is property, marriage, breastfeeding, divorce, 
power of attorney and will. 2125-) Imam-i  Malik says: This is reserved for the provisions regarding property. It cannot be ruled with one 
witness and an oath in terms of marriage, divorce, emancipation, theft and slander. If a person says "freedom is also a property", he 
has made a mistake. The provision is not as he says. If the verdict is as he says, the slave will testify and swear that his master has 
freed him. The slave brings a witness that any property belongs to him and swears with the witness as if he is free and becomes the 
owner of that property. 2126-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our sunnah (practice), if a slave brings a witness that he is freed, an 
oath is offered to his master that he did not free the slave. If he does, the slave's claim will be void. 2127-) Imam-i  Malik says: This is 
also the rule regarding talaq with us. If the woman brings a witness that her husband has divorced her, her husband is made to swear 
that she cannot divorce him. If he takes an oath, he is not considered to have divorced his wife. 2128-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the woman 
claims that her husband has divorced by bringing a witness, and the slave claims that his master has freed him with another witness, 
the way to be followed is one. This is an oath that the husband does not divorce, and the master does not emancipate. To emancipate, 
had This means that when the slave is freed, Allah's right is involved. Even if the slave and his master try to stop the emancipation by 
agreement, they cannot do it. 

(Bâci, al-Münteka,  vol.5, p. 218). Testimony of women is not accepted here. Because when a slave is free, he is treated like a free person. For and against (complete) hadd is applied. commit adultery while married 
is reckoned. If he kills a slave, he is killed in return. Inheritance is also entitled. By presenting evidence, a person says: "If a master frees his slave, and another person comes and asks for what he will get from the master, if a man or two women testify that this person will receive from the master, this testimony proves that the master has a claim, and even if the master has no property other than the slave, the debt is fixed. It is denied that he frees the slave because he is a slave.” If he says this and wants to have women testify about freeing slaves with this word, he cannot get them accepted. 2129-) It is similar to this: The master frees his slave, then someone who demands his right from the master brings a witness. He takes an oath along with the witness's martyrdom. Then he gets his due. Thus, the emancipation of the slave is denied. In Judah, a man who has a business relationship with the slave's master comes and claims that he has a right from the master. 
If he refrains from taking the oath, the plaintiff is given an oath. (If he does) his right over the master becomes fixed. The fact that the claim on the master is fixed invalidates the emancipation of the slave. In the Hanafi sect, the freeing of the slave remains in effect, but the slave pays the debt by working. 2130-) Again, when a person marries a concubine and becomes his concubine's wife, his master comes to the man whom his concubine married and says: "You bought so and such a concubine from me for such a price", and when the concubine's husband refuses, the master brings a man and two women as witnesses. If they also testify confirming what the master said, the sale becomes final and the master gains his right. A concubine becomes haram for her husband and in this case it is considered empty. It is not permissible for only women to testify about divorce. 2131-) Imam-i  Malik says: When a man slanders a free person, he is punished for slander. If a man and two women come and testify that the slandered person is a slave, this testimony will reduce the penalty of slander from the slanderer. The testimony of women alone is not accepted regarding slander. One of the places where women testify is this: The inheritance becomes fixed when two women testify that the child was born alive, and the child is entitled to the inheritance. If the child dies, the property becomes his heirs. The presence and swearing of two female witnesses and male witnesses are in precious things such as gold, silver, mansions, farms, slaves and other goods. If two women testify about something more or less a dirham or less, no judgment can be passed without a male witness or an oath with them. 
2132-) Imam-i  Malik says: Some fuqaya say "an oath is not accepted with a witness" and they bring evidence for their words: "Bring two witnesses from your men, two male witnesses." Otherwise, one man and two women will testify from among the witnesses you will be pleased with.” al-Baqara,  282 and they say: If a man and two women cannot bring witnesses, there is nothing to be done. An oath cannot be taken with a witness. Malik says: It will be said to the person who says this: If a man claims that he will receive property from another person, wouldn't the requested person swear that he does not have this claim? If he takes an oath, it is 
understood that he does not have such a right. If he refrains from taking an oath, the creditor is made to swear that he really has a right in that person. If he does, his receipt will be finalized on the other side. There has been no dispute on this issue by any person, in any town. On what basis did the claimant make the above judgment and where did he find it in the book of Allah? If he accepts what we said, he also accepts that he will be sworn in with a witness. Although this is not in the book of Almighty Allah, the deeds done in this regard are sufficient. But one should know the right side of something and the place to bring evidence. Here in these explanations – God willing – there is an explanation for the difficult issues on this issue. 2133-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person dies even though he is a creditor, there is a witness that he will take it, he has debts to others, and if these people have only one witness about their receivables and the heirs of the deceased, together with the witnesses of the creditors, refrain from taking an oath, the creditors take an oath. and get their rights. After the debt is paid from his property, the heirs cannot take the remainder unless they take an oath. This provision is due to the fact that the oath was first offered to the heirs and they did not take the oath. However, the heirs say that they did not know that the deceased owed much debt, and if it is understood that they did not take an oath because of this, in my opinion, they take an oath and take what is left of the debt. 2134-) Abdurrahman's son, muezzin Cemil, says: Ömer b. I was with Abdulaziz when he was judging people. One person, Umar b. When he came to Abdulaziz and claimed that he had a receivable from a person, he would look at it, if there was a relationship between the creditor and the debtor, he would make the debtor take an oath, if there was no such relationship, he would not. 2135-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, the action is as follows: If a person claims that he has a right to a man, it will be considered. If there is a relationship between them, such as shopping, the defendant is sworn in. If he takes an oath, his right will fall from him. If he does not swear and leaves the oath to the plaintiff, if he takes the oath, he gets his right. 
2136-) Hisham b. From Urve (radiyallahu anh): Abdullah b. Zubayr (radiy-Allâhu  anh) used to judge children injuring each other according to their testimonies. 2137-) Imam-i  Malik says: The unanimously accepted rule is this: The martyrdom of children is permissible for injuries among them. It is not permissible for children to testify to others. Only their testimonies are accepted for injuries among themselves. Other than that, it is not accepted. This issue is in question without the children being scattered, indoctrinated, or influenced. If they disperse, their testimony will not be accepted. However, if they bring just people as witnesses to their testimony before they disperse, their testimonies are accepted. in the Hanafi school 
Children's testimony is not accepted. However, it is permissible if they witnessed it while they were slaves or children and 
they gave their testimonies after the slave attained freedom and the child after reaching puberty. It is not permissible otherwise. 
(Dâmâd, Mecmau'l-Enhur,  s. 2, s. 190-196). 
2138-) Jabir b. From Abdulah al-Ansari  (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: 
“Whoever takes a false oath by my pulpit will have prepared his place in Hell.” Abu Dawud, Eyman, 21/2; Ibn Majah, 
Ahkam, 13/9. 
2139-) From Abu Umama: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever takes the right of a Muslim 
person with a false oath, Allah forbids Paradise and makes Hell obligatory." Even if it's a little thing, O Messenger of Allah?" 
they said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whether it is a stick from the Erak tree, whether it is a stick from the 
Erak tree or a stick from the Erak tree.” He repeated this word three times. 
Muslim, tman, 59, no: 218 
2140-) Ebu Gatafan b. Tarif al-Muriy  says: Zayd b. Thabit al-Ansari  and Ibn Muti, Marwan b. They were judged in the presence 
of al-Hakam.  Marwan, Zayd b. He decided that Sabit should take an oath next to the pulpit of the Prophet. Thereupon, Zayd b. 
Fixed: I swear,” he said. Marwan: No. By Allah, when he said, "You have to take an oath only where the rights are separated 
(near the pulpit)", Zayd b. Thabit, refraining from taking an oath by the pulpit, swore that he was right. Marwan b. Al-Hakam  was 
astonished that Zayd did not swear by the pulpit. Zayd b. Thabit may not have taken an oath there, out of respect for the Minbar­i Rasûl. Abdullah b. According to what is reported from Umar, Zayd b. 

The fact that Thabit did not take an oath even though it was true is to prevent the people from saying "his oath caused this 
to happen to him" if something happens to him as a result of divine providence. (Bâcî, al-Münteka  v.5, p.233). 2141-) Imam-
i Malik says: I do not think that someone should take an oath by the pulpit because of an amount less than a quarter dinar. 
This is three dirhams. 
2142-) Said b. From al-Museyyeb  (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A pledge 
is not bound.” Ibn Abdilber says: Muwatta narrators narrate as mursal. However, Ma'n b. Jesus quotes Abu Hurayra. 2143-) 
Imam-i  Malik says: --Allah  knows better --in our view, this means: A person leaves a pledge in exchange for what he has 
received, and this pledge is more than what is received in return, and the pledger accepts the pledge. If he says to the person, 
"If I bring your right to you until such a time, I will take the pledge, if I do not bring it, let the pledge be yours in return for what 
has been taken (by me)", this is not right and lawful, and it is forbidden. After the deadline, if the pledger gives what he received 
in return for the pledge, he will receive what he has pledged. Accordingly, the condition put forward by the pledgee is invalid. 
2144-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person has pledged his garden until a certain time and this garden has given fruit before the 
appointed time, the fruits cannot be pledged together with the garden. However, if the pledger has met this condition in the 
pledge, the fruits will be pledged. According to the Hanafi school, it is not permissible to pawn only the fruit, not the tree, and it 
is not permissible to leave the field and pledge only the crop. (Dâmâd, Mecmeu'l-Enhur  v.2, p. 592). If a person accepts a 
pregnant concubine as a hostage or becomes pregnant after accepting him as a hostage, his child becomes a hostage with 
him. It is not permissible to pawn a free person, Müdebberi (a slave whose liberation is due to the death of his master), Umm 
Veledi (a female slave with a child by his master), and Mükatabi (a slave who made a contract with his master to pay the price 
of freedom). Because these last three are considered free because they are willing to be free. 2145-) Imam-i  Malik says: There 
is a difference between the fruit and the child of the concubine. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If a 
person sells a grafted date tree," the fruit will be available to the seller. However, if the customer also stipulates that he buys 
the fruit, the fruit becomes the customer.» 2146-) Imam-i  Malik says: The consensus we have is as follows: If a person sells a 
pregnant concubine or an animal with a baby in its womb, the customer becomes the customer, whether he stipulates it or not. 
The date palm is not like an animal. The fruit is not like the baby in its mother's womb. Malik says: The following points also 
explain this issue: According to custom, a person cannot pledge the date tree, but only its fruit. No one from the public will pawn 
the baby in the womb of its mother (concubine or animal). 2147-) Imam-i  Malik says: The consensus on pledge is as follows: If 
a field, house or an animal is in a condition to be known, it is destroyed in the hands of the pledgee, and if it is known, the 
damage will belong to the pledger. This does not detract from the rights of the hostage taker. If the pledge is destroyed in the 
hands of the pledgee, and the destruction is known only by his word, the loss will belong to the pledgee and it will pay its value. 
It is said to the hostage taker, "Report the property of the destroyed hostage". They are sworn to the truth of what they say. 
Then the expert evaluates it. At the discretion of the expert, if the value of the destroyed pledge is more than the pledgee's 
receivable, the pledger takes the excess. If the value is undervalued and the pledger does not accept it, the pledger is made to 
swear. Upon taking the oath, the pledgee's excess claim is not accepted. If the pawner refrains from taking the oath, he pays 
the difference between the value appreciated by the expert and what the pledgee will receive. If the hostage-taker  says "I do 
not know the value of the destroyed hostage", he is sworn to the discretion of the hostage. With reasonable discretion, the 
pledger's word becomes valid. Malik says: Pledge 

If the buyer has taken the pledge into his own custody, the provision is as above. If the pledge is entrusted to someone else, the provision changes. 2148-) Imam-i  Malik said: There is a (joint) pledge between two people. One of these two people wants to sell his own pawn. The other gives a grace period of one year (to the debtor). Imam-i  Malik says about these two people: If the pledge can be divided and the right of the person who postpones his debt is not deficient, half of this joint pledge is sold and that person's debt is paid. (With the division of the pledge) if it is feared that his right will be deficient, the pledge is completely sold and the person who wants to sell the pledge is given the right of its money. The person who delays his receivables, if he wishes, gives half of the pledge price to the pledger, or if he does not want it, he is made to take an oath saying, "I have postponed the pledge in order to keep it as it is". After taking the oath, he is immediately paid his due. 2149-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a slave with property is pledged by his master, the property of the slave cannot be pledged unless the pledgee has stipulated a condition. 2150-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person takes any item as a pledge, and this item is lost with him, and the debtor confesses his debt, if they agree with the creditor on this issue, if they cannot agree on the value of the pledge, the pledger: "The value of the pledge twenty dinars.” If the pledgee says, "(No) its value is ten 
dinars" and he is to receive twenty dinars, the pledgee is said to "Declare the characteristics of the pawn." When he declares, the expert evaluates the pledge according to this statement. If the value is more than the debt, the pledgee is called: "Return the remainder of the debt to the pledger". If its value is less than the debt, the pledgee receives the remainder of the debt from the pledger. If the value of the pledge is equal to the debt, they are even. 2151-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, if two people who were treated as pledges could not agree on the pledge and the pledger said: "I have given you this pledge for ten dinars", the hostage taker says: "(No) it is twenty thousand dollars from you. If he says, "I took a pledge for dinars" and the pledge is in the hands of the pledgee, Imam-i  Malik says: If it is understood that the value of the pledge in his hand is as much as his receivable, he will take the whole pawn in return for his receivable. Since the pledge is in his own hands, it is appropriate to make the pledgee take an oath first. However, if the pledger gives his debt to the pledgee and wants to take the pledge back, he will not be given an oath. If the value of the pledge is less than the specified twenty dinars, the pledgee is made to swear that it is worth the twenty dinars specified by the pledge. Then the pawnbroker is told, "Either by giving twenty dinars, you get your pledge back, or you swear that the debt you pledged is ten dinars, and you do not give what you said in excess of the value of the pledge." If the pawner takes an oath, he will not give this excess; if he does not take an oath, the pledgee must pay the twenty dinars that he has sworn in. 2152-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the pledge is lost, if the creditor and the debtor do not know how much the debt is, and the creditor says, "I have twenty dinars in you", and the debtor says: "(No) I only have ten dinars". If the creditor says: “The value of the pledge was ten dinars”, and the debtor says: “Twenty dinars”, the creditor is called: “Notify the pledge's qualifications”. When he declares his qualifications, he is sworn to the truth of what he says. Then the expert evaluates this statement and appraises the hostage. If the value of the pledge is more than the claim of the pledgee, he is sworn to the accuracy of his claim. Then the pledger is given the remainder of the value of the pledge. If the value of the pledge is less than the amount claimed by the pledgee, an oath is sworn to the correctness of the claimed receivable. It is then compared to the amount of the pledge. Then, the debtor is sworn in (after the debt is paid) how much is left over in his favor from the amount of the pledge. This provision is due to the fact that the pledgee makes a claim against the pledger. If he takes an oath, the pledgee does not pay the remainder of the pledge, which he claims will get more than the value of the pledge and has sworn to be true. If he does not swear, he must pay. 2153-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, regarding a person who rents an animal up to a certain place and then moves further from that place, the ruling is as follows: The owner of an animal is free. If he wants to buy the animal rent between the place mentioned before and the place to be moved forward, he gets this together with the previous rent and owns his animal. 
If the owner wants the animal, the tenant gets the value of the animal because it has passed the specified place. If the lessee has hired the animal for departure only, he will receive this rent as well. If the lessee rents the animal for departure, and then advances when he arrives at the rented place, the owner of the animal receives only half of the first rent, together with the value of the animal. This provision is due to the fact that half of the rent is on the way out and half on the way back, and the lessor is unfair to the animal, and he has to pay only half of the rent they have agreed. If the animal dies when it arrives at the rented place, the tenant does not have to pay the price of the animal (unless it passes further than this place). The lessor is entitled to receive only half of the rent. The provision to be given to those who use it contrary to the purpose for which it is rented is similar to this. 2154-) Again, if a person like this takes money from a second person for the purpose of making a profit partnership, the owner of the money says to him: "Do not buy with my money that commercial item whose names I have forbidden you to use and for which I do not want you to spend my money", even though (despite these conditions) the profit If his partner buys the prohibited item and with this action he wants to pay the owner his share of the profit with the principal, the owner of the money is free. If he wants to be a partner in the goods bought by complying with the conditions they have accepted in terms of profit, it can be. If he wishes, he can break the agreement and withdraw his money from the profit partner who does not comply with the terms. 2155-) Another issue similar to this is this: A man gave money to someone who was with him and said, "Tell me this. 
If he says "Take this," and he gets something other than what he said, it would be unfair. In the face of this situation, the giver accepts the received thing as it is. If he wishes, he will make that person pay. 2156-) From Ibn Shihab: Abdulmalik b. Marwan forced the person who raped a woman to pay her dowry. 
ruled. 
2157-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, the verdict regarding a person who forcibly commits adultery with a woman, whether he is a virgin or widow, is as follows: If the woman is free, the man must pay the woman's dowry (emsal mahr). If she is a concubine, she has to give what is less than her value. In all these, the penalty of adultery is not applied to the forced woman, but to the man who compels her. If the perpetrator of this rape is a slave, the punishment belongs to his master. However, if the master surrenders the slave, the penalty is imposed on the slave. Abu. According to Hanife, the person who forcibly commits adultery with a woman is punished for adultery. Mahr is not paid. Imam al-Sevri  is of the same opinion. (Bari, al-Münteka,  vol.5, p.269). 2158-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, if a person takes an animal without the owner's permission, even if it harms him, he will pay the price of the animal according to the value of the days he took. The animal does not need to take the like. This is the just judgment. 
2159-) Imam-i  Malik also says about a person who wastes a food without the permission of the owner: This person must give the food owner the same amount of food of the same type. Food is like gold and silver. The loser gives gold for gold, silver for silver. But in this respect, the animal is not like gold. This is separated by sunnah and custom. 2160-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person is given goods in trust, he also trades with it on his own behalf and even if he makes a profit, this profit will be entirely his own. Because until he gives it to the owner, he is held responsible for paying the goods. If the escrow had remained escrow, there would be no payment liability. 
2161-) Zayd b. From Eÿlem (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Smite the neck of those who change their religion.” He is mursel with all narrators. It is valid in Bukhari (Jihad, 56/149). 2162-) Imam-i  Malik says: (Allah knows better) In my opinion, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Beat off the neck of those who change their religion." The meaning of the command is this: If apostates and similar people who have left the religion of Islam and converted to another religion are caught, they will be killed without repentance. Because their repentance is not accepted Abu Hanifa has two views on this issue. One is that his repentance will be accepted and the other is that he will not be accepted. And I don't think they will be repented because they hide their unbelief and look Muslim. They cannot be trusted to say that they have repented. However, if he leaves Islam and enters another religion and explains this as well, this person will be called to repentance, if he repents, it's fine, if he doesn't, he will be killed. If a society (rather than an individual) does this, the ruling is the same. I think they are invited to Islam and asked to repent. If they repent, their repentance will be accepted. If they do not repent, they will be killed. In my opinion, (Allah knows better) with this hadith, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not mean those who converted from Judaism to Christianity, those who converted from Christianity to Judaism or those who changed their religion from other religions, but only those who left Islam. What is meant by this hadith (Allah knows better) are people who left Islam and converted to another religion and explained this as well. 
2163-) Muhammed b. Abdullah b. Abd el-Kari  says: From Abu Musa al-Ash'ari,  Ömer b. A man came to al-Khattab.  Ömer asked the man about the people, and the room made statements to Ömer. Then Hazrat Umar said to him: Do you have any news about that place?' she asked. The man said: "Yes, a man's apostasy is called irtidat apostasy, leaving Islam and entering into disbelief after becoming a Muslim. did,” he said. Hazrat Umar: "What did you do to him?" she asked. The man replied: "We caught him and we hit his neck." Hadrat Umar: Didn't you imprison him for three days, give him a loaf of bread every day, and invite him to repentance? It is possible that he would repent and return to Allah's command (Islam). said. Hazrat Umar continued his words as follows: "My God, I have not been there. Nor did I order him to be killed. Had I been informed, I would not have consented to his murder.” The fact that Abu Musa al-Ash'ari  acted against the opinion of Hadrat Umar shows that the incident of apostasy at that time was very rare and no one knew the exact verdict of it. 
2164-) From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): Sa'd b. Ubade asked Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): What would you say? If I (O Messenger of Allah) catch a strange man with my wife, shall I give him respite until I can bring four witnesses?' said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied: Yes. Muslim, Lian, 19/15. 
2165-) Said b. From al-Museyyeb  (radiyallahu anh): When a man from Damascus named Ibn Khaybari caught a foreign man with his wife, he immediately killed that man; or killed both the man and the woman. Muawiya b. Abi Sufyan could not pass judgment on this matter. He wrote a letter to Abu Musa al-Ash'ari  and addressed the issue to Ali b. He asked Abi Talib to ask him. Abu Musa al-Ash'ari  also asked Hadrat Ali about the issue. Hazrat Ali: Such a thing has not happened in my region. I want you to research this matter and let me know." Abu Musa said to him: Muawiya b. When Abu Sufyan wrote that I should ask you about this issue, Hadrat Ali said: I am Abu Hasan, Arabs say this when they hit on an issue. For, Hazrat Ali was correct in his opinion when he said, "This did not happen in my region." If he cannot bring four witnesses, the word "rope" was used because the person whose rope was to be retaliated was carried away with a rope tied around his neck. It's an excuse to deliver. (to the parents of the murdered). (They also retaliated him 
they can kill)" he said. 
2166-) From Abu Cemile Sunayn: A man from the sons of Sulaym, Omar b. He found a boy thrown (on the street) during the Khattab era. «Umar b. I brought him to Khattab," he said. Umar b. Khattab said: Why did you take this child?' When he said it, the man said: I found it in danger of death and bought it. Umar b. When a person who knew the man said to Khattab: O Emir'el Mu'minin, that man is a true person, Omar said to him: Is that so? said. Someone familiar replied: Yes. Thereupon, Umar b. Khattab said (to the man): You can go, he is free, his inheritance belongs to you, and his care belongs to the treasury. 2167-) Imam-i  Malik says: A discarded child is free, his parents are Muslims. When he dies, Muslims become his heirs. If he gets into debt or commits a crime, the financial burden belongs to the Muslims. In our opinion, this is the case. 2168-) Hadrat Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh), the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) says: Abu Waqqas' son Utba said to his brother Sa'd, "The son of Zam'a's concubine is from me. He would deliver his concubine to this person and would not approach them until she became pregnant from that person. 
When the woman did not have a husband, she would have intercourse with the person or persons she wanted, and when she was pregnant, she would call someone with whom she had intercourse and say, "This child is from you," and the child would be considered that person. Some women also commit adultery openly, hanging flags in their homes to let everyone know that they were open. Anyone who saw this flag would understand that it was a brothel. Countless people came and went. When she became pregnant, she called some of her adulteresses, told one of them that the child was hers, and the child was hers. True marriage. He nullified the first three of these marriages and accepted the authentic marriage. (Bâci, Münteka, c.6, p.5), he had willed to have it. In the year of the conquest (of Mecca), Sa'd took him: He is my brother's son; My brother had bequeathed it to me,” he said. Thereupon, Abd b. He was thrown into Zem and said: (He is) my brother, the son of my father's concubine, born when my father had the right to be united with his mother. Upon this, when the parties could not come to an agreement, they went to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Sa'd: O Messenger of Allah! He is my nephew. My brother had bequeathed it to me," he said. Abd b. Also to Zem: He is my brother; son of my father's concubine; He was born when the right to unite with his mother belonged to my father.” Thereupon, Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): It belongs to you, O Abd b. He said to Zem. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The child belongs to the person who has the right to unite with his mother. The adulterer has no right over the child.” he commanded. Later, he said to Zem's daughter, Sevde, because he compared the child to Utba, the son of Abu Vakkas: Cover him in front of him. Thus, that child could not see Sevde until he died. Bukhari, Buyu, 34/3; Muslim, Radâ, 17/10, no: 36. The saying of (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) to cover is not because it is haram to open it in front of him, but out of precaution. Apparently, this child's lineage became stable and he became the brother of Hazrat Sevde. The Messenger of Allah did not respect the child's resemblance to Utba, and gave the child to sahib-i  firash (the one who made the union). For this reason, according to precaution, the order given is not contrary to the outward order. Because, on the one hand, the fact that the child was given to Zam'a necessitates that Hazrat Sevde should not avoid him, on the other hand, the child's resemblance to Utba necessitates that Hazrat Sevde should be covered in front of him. Therefore, in this regard; There is a suspicion that it is halal in one way and haram in the other. Therefore, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered cautiously. (Kastalânî ÿrÿadü's-Sari,  vol.4, p. 10). 2169-) From the son of Abu Umayya, Abdullah: A woman whose husband died waited for iddah for four months and ten days. Then, when her iddah was over, she got married and, after staying with her husband for four and a half months, gave birth to a full-fledged  baby. Thereupon, her husband, Umar b. He came to Khattab and explained the situation. Umar also called some (experienced) women from the old and ignorant period and asked them about this subject. A woman among them: Let me explain this woman's situation to you. When she became pregnant with her first husband, her husband died. Even though she was pregnant, when she saw menstruation, the development of the child in her womb stopped. When the semen of her second husband came into contact with the child, the child started to move and grew in her womb," she said. Thereupon, Hadrat Umar found the old woman's statement true and affirmed that, according to the verses, the child would not be born fully formed in less than six months. He separated them due to the fact that they were married in the same period and the marriage was not valid in this state. Since she accepted their apology, she did not impose any punishment on them and said (to them): All I know about you is kindness.” And she gave the child to her first deceased husband. 
2170-) Süleyman b. From Yesar: Hazrat Umar b. Khattab considered his children born before Islam as his own whoever said that when Islam came, he was mine. (To Ömer) Two men came to claim that a woman's child belonged to them. Thereupon, Hazrat Umar b. Khattab called someone who knows. He looked at these men and said: This child may belong to both.' When he said, Hazrat Umar b. Khattab flogged the expert (for his haste and failure to examine). Then he called the child's mother and said, "Tell me who the child is from." And the woman: This child must belong to one of these two men. When someone was herding our camels with me, he would always fall and get up. We thought I was pregnant. Then she broke up with me. While I think I am pregnant; I have a menstrual period. Then that second guy with me started falling off. So which child is 
I don't know, he said. Ravi says: When his word was confirmed by the woman, the person who knows said, "Allahu Akbar". 
Then Umar (radiyallahu anh) said to the boy: Go to whichever you want. 2171-) Omar b. Khattab and Osman b. One of the Affans decreed about a concubine who deceivingly married a man and bore him children (who later turned out to be someone else) by deceiving her as free: Their fathers save their children by giving (to the concubine's master) the value of the like of children. 2172-) Imam-i  Malik says: Insha Allah, it would be more appropriate to give his value in this regard to justice. 2173-) Imam-i  Malik says: Regarding a person who died leaving children behind and one of his children said, "My father said that such and such person was his own son," the verdict is unanimously as follows: This person's lineage cannot be determined by the martyrdom of a person. The word of the person who conveys his father's confession is valid against himself, in his share of his father's property. Whoever testifies in his favor from the property in his possession is given the property of his share. Each of these two sons receives three hundred dinars. Then, if one of these two children testifies that a deceased third person is the son of his father, one hundred dinars from the share of the witness is given to the person whose lineage is claimed. This hundred dinars is half the share of the person who is asked to join the family. If his other son also testifies in favor of this, he will receive the other hundred dinars. Thus, his right will be completed and his lineage will be fixed. The witness here is similar to this woman; The woman says that her deceased father or husband owes her debt, and she has to give her share of the debt as if it were paid by the debtors. If the woman in question is the wife of the deceased, who owns one-eighth  share, she pays one-eighth  of the debt to the creditor. If the heir to half of the estate is the daughter of the deceased, he pays half of the debt to the creditor. All women who testify in favor of the creditor pay him according to this het. 2174-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man, like a woman, testifies that his father owes him, the creditor is sworn in with this testimony and the creditor is paid in full. There is a difference between men and women in this regard, because the testimony of a man is valid for the whole of the debt. In order for him to receive the full amount of his debt, he must take an oath with this martyrdom. If he does not take the oath, he only takes his share of the debt from the inheritance of the person who testifies in his favor. Because he is the only one who accepts the debt. Other lenders do not admit that there is such a debt. The word of the one who accepts is valid about himself. 
2175-) Hazrat Umar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) says: What is the matter with those masters who have concubines, they first contact their concubines, then they do not want to have children. If a concubine, whom the master agrees to marry, appeals to me, I will enroll her child in her master. Considering this, you can dismiss the semen with the intention of not having children. whether you have a child. 2176-) Omar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) says: What is wrong with these masters who have concubines! First, they were in contact with their concubines, then they were allowed to go out. they do. If a concubine, whose master admits her union, appeals to me, I will enroll her child in her master. After that, either release them or keep them at home. 2177-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the verdict is as follows: If Umm Walad commits a murder, her master will compensate her for the murder as much as her worth, but she does not have the right to hand over the concubine (for the murder). She is not obliged to pay more than the value of the concubine. 
2178-) From Urwa, Hisham's father: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The vacant land belongs to the one who reformed 
it. He who sows, plants and builds therein (afterward) unjustly has no right.” 2179-) Imam-i  Malik says: An injustice to the 
land that someone has improved is done by digging a hole there or adding it to his own land or planting trees there. 

2180-) Salim narrates from his father Abdullah: Omar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) says: "The empty land belongs to the 
one who improved it." Malik says: This is also the case for us. 
2181-) Amr b. Hazm's grandson, Abu Bakr b. The following was reported to Abdullah, the son of Muhammad: The 
Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about the water flowing from the Mazhur and Müzeynib streams: "The people above keep the 
water until their garden and crops are completely irrigated, then they release it to the lower ones." Abu Dawud, Akdiye, 23/31; 
Ibn Majah, Rusn, 16/20. 
2182-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah said: “Excess water is not spared for the protection 
of grasses” Bukhari, Shirb, 42/2; Muslim, Musâkat, 22/8, no:36. 
2183-) Abdurrahman's daughter Amre-The  Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "The water of the well 
(those who come to get water) will not be withheld." This is mursal. Ebu Kurra Musa b. Tarik and Said b. Abdurrahman 
al-Jumahi  was attributed. The deed of both are the same: Malik -Abu'r-Rical-mother-Hazret-i  Aisha. 
2184-) From Amr's father, Yahya al-Mazinî:  The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Just as it is not right to 
harm someone, it is also not right to repay someone who has been harmed with harm." he commanded. Ibn Majah (Ahkam, 
13/17) narrates it as apocalyptic. See also Shaybani, 804. 
2185-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "Let no one of you prevent his 
neighbor from putting a beam on his wall." Then Abu Huraira says: "I don't want you to be afraid of this. 

I'm surprised. By Allah, I will put that beam on your shoulders" Shafiis, Hanafis and Malikis are of the opinion that the ban here indicates mandub. The above statement of Abu Hurayra must have arisen from the fact that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered him to be very kind and benevolent towards his neighbor. Bukhari, Mazâlim, 46/20; Muslim, Musâkat, 22/20, no: 136. 
2186-) From Amr's father, Yahya el-Mâzini:  Dahhak b. The caliph opened a water channel for himself from a river called al-Urayd.  This 
water was given to Muhammad b. He wanted to pass it through Mesleme's land. (Because this person had land between the water 
and his own land.) Muhammad did not want to let it pass. Dahhak to him: Why are you stopping me? You benefit from the water that 
will pass through here, you drink from that water. It won't hurt you," he said. When Muhammad did not consent, Dahhak took the issue 
to Umar b. He told Khattab. Umar b. Khattab also Muhammad b. He summoned Maslama (into his presence) and ordered Dahhak to 
let him go. When Muhammad said: No, it won't happen, Omar: Why do you prevent something that a Muslim brother can benefit from? 
However, you can also benefit from it, you can always irrigate your land with this water, it will not harm you at all. When Muhammad 
said: "No, I swear by God," Umar said: "I swear by God, this water will pass over your stomach." Thereupon, Omar ordered Dahhak to 
run water from that land. He had it too. 

2187-) Amr's father, Yahya el-Mazini,  says: In my grandfather's garden, Abdurrahman b. Avf had a water arc. 
Abdurrahman b. Avf wanted to take this water arc to a side of the garden closer to his land. When the owner of the garden did not 
consent to this, Abdurrahman b. Awf said that Omar b. He told Khattab. Umar, Abdurrahman b. He decided to replace the water in favor 
of Avf. 
2188-) Sevr b. It was reported to Zayd ed-Deylemî:  The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Any house or land that was divided in the 
Age of Ignorance will remain as it was divided in that period. Houses and land that were not divided when Islam came, are divided 
according to the principles of Islam. Abu Omar says: Only Ibrahim et-Tahman  narrates it as apocalyptic. Ot Malik -Sevr -îkrima-It is tight 
in the deed of Ibn Abbas 2189-) Imam-i  Malik says about a person who died and left land in the aliyah (upper) and sâfile (lower) aspects 
of Madinah: Land that does not need irrigation without the consent of the shareholders , transportation shall not be divided together with 
the irrigated land. The land that does not need irrigation can be divided if there is a similarity with the irrigated land. If there is a closeness 
between the two lands as they are in the same region, the lands here are divided between the lands after they are added to each other. 
Houses and houses with gardens are also divided in the same way. 

2190-) Said b. From Haram, son of Muhayyisa: Bera b. Azib's camel entered a man's garden and harmed him. Thereupon, the 
Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) decreed: Garden owners will guard their gardens during the day. Animals harmed at 
night will be paid for by the animal owners. Ibn Abdilber says: The narrators of Malik and Ibn Shihab thus narrate it as mursal. The hadith 
is one of the mursali of the sikas. The Hejaz and a group of Iraqis accepted the Iraqis, and the Medina custom was like that. See also 
Abu Dawud, Buyu 90. 

2191-) Abdurrahman b. From Hatib's son Yahya: Hatib's slaves stole a camel belonging to a person from the Muzeyne tribe and 
slaughtered it. Situation Umar b. Khattab was reported. Hazrat Umar, Kesir b. He ordered es-Salt  to cut off the hands of the thieves. 
Then (abandoning this) Hazrat Umar said (to Hatib) "I think you are starving them." Then, Hadrat Umar continued: "By God, I will make 
you pay for this as it will be heavy." Then to Müzeni: "How much does a camel cost?" When he said it, Müzeni said, "By God, I wouldn't 
have given him for four hundred dirhams." 
Thereupon, Hadrat Umar said (to the addressee) "Give him eight hundred dirhams." 2192-) Imam-i  
Malik says: Our deeds are not in the form of double the value of our deeds. However, in our opinion, the provision is that a person 
pays the camel or animal over its value on the day he bought it. 2193-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, the person who harms 
animals pays the difference between the value of that animal before and after the damage. 2194-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person 
who is attacked by a camel kills the camel or breaks its legs, fearing that it will harm him, and if this person has proof that the camel 
wants to attack him, he does not have to pay for the camel. If he has no evidence other than his own words, then he pays the price of the 
camel. 2195-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person gave a dress to the painter to paint and he dyed it. Dress owner: I didn't want you to paint it 
that way." he said. The painter also said: That's how you wanted it. In this regard, the word of the painter is accepted. So are the tailor 
and the jeweler. All swear by the truth of their words. 

However, if their work is faulty, their words will not be accepted. In this case, the owner of the fabric swears. 
If he refrains from taking an oath, the painter is made to take an oath. 
2196-) Imam-i  Malik says: A dyer is given cloth (for dyeing), and he spoils the cloth, then gives the handicapped cloth to someone 
else, and if the man he gave wears that dress, the person who wears the dress does not pay for it. 
If the wearer does not know that it does not belong to the painter, this is the ruling. If he wears the dress knowing that it does not 
belong to the painter, he pays the value to the owner. 2197-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the debtor transfers the debtor to 
another person who owes him money to pay his debt, the person who accepts the transfer goes bankrupt without paying the debt, or 
the property that will die and close the debt. 

If he does not, the creditor does not have any rights in the transferor and does not want anything from him. Our rule is like this by consensus. 2198-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man dies or goes bankrupt after taking on someone's debt, the first creditor asks for his debt from the first debtor. 2199-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person buys a fabric that has a torn or similar fault, which the seller knows to be informed or the seller will detect, then cuts this fabric to a degree that will reduce its price, then if the customer learns about the fabric's excuse, return it. give it to the seller. Because he reaps, he does not pay the seller. 
2200-) If a person buys the fabric that has an excuse such as torn and cut, but the seller claims that he does not know the excuse and that the buyer or the painter cut the fabric, the customer is imaginary. If he wants, he can buy the fabric by reducing the amount that the torn and cut has reduced from the price of the fabric. If he wants, he pays the amount that mowing and dyeing has reduced from the price of the fabric, and returns his fabric. If the price has increased when the customer dyes the fabric, the customer is still imaginative. If he wants, he can reduce the price of the fabric as much as the excuse decreases, or he can share the fabric with the seller. In this case, the value of the torn and cut fabric is checked. If the fabric is ten dirhams and the value added by the dye is five dirhams, each party becomes a partner in the fabric in the amount of their shares. According to this calculation, the excess dye added to the dress is also found in the (new) price of the dress. 2201-) Nu'man b. From Bashir (radiyallahu anh): My father, Bashir, took me to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: I want to forgive my slave to my son. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked: Did you give each of your children a grant like this? he commanded. Bashir replied: No. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Give up on this. It is tanzihi makruh for a father to donate to one of his children more than the other. (Kastalânî, ÿrÿadus-ÿari,  c.4, p.343). Bukhari, Grant, 51/12; Muslim, Hibat, 2473, no: 9; Shaybani, 807. 
2202-) Hadrat Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh), the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) says: Abu Bekir as-Sÿddÿk  (radiy-Allâhu  anh), twenty vesk that will be gathered for me in a place called Gâbe. One vesk is 60 sa. One sa' is equivalent to 1040 dirhams custom. The custom of 1040 dirhams is approximately 3.333 kg. Thus, 20 vesk= 3.333 kgx60x20=3999.6 kg= about 4 tons. donated persimmons. When he was about to die, (my father) Abu Bakr said: My daughter, I swear I want you to be rich after my death more than anyone else. I am also very sorry that you are poor. I donated to you twenty vesk dates to be collected. What you've collected so far is yours. But today they have become the property of heirs. You have two brothers and two sisters. Share the remainder among yourselves in accordance with the book of Allah.” I say: Father, by God, I will leave it (to the heirs) even if it is this and that much. One of my sisters is Esma, and the other is who?» My father, Abu Bakr: He is the child in the womb of Harice's daughter. I think that child will be a girl" Some jurists said that Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) had a dream and interpreted that the child in Habibe bint Harice's womb would be a girl. Abu Bakr hit his point. (Bâci, al-Munteka,  v.6. p. 104). gave the answer. ÿeybanî, 808. 2203-) Ömer b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) said: Why don't people who donate to their children donate their donations? A man whose son has died says, "I have my property, I have not donated it to anyone." If he were about to die, “that property belongs to my son. I donated that property to my son.” If the donor dies leaving what he has given, and the donor does not receive the donation until he dies, this donation becomes void. If the child is older, the child who is wajib or efdal is respected as a foreigner, the older child must receive the donation from his father's hand. If the child is small, the grant is given to a safe person who will keep it on his behalf (liâcî, al-Münteka,  vol. 6, p. 104). 2204-) Imam-i Malik says: Here is the rule for us. If a person makes a donation to a person with the intention of getting his reward only from Allah, and if he proves this donation with witnesses, the donation will be forgiven. However, if the donor dies before the donor has received the donation, he will not be forgiven. 
2205-) If the donor wishes not to donate after holding a witness that he has donated, he has no right to do so. If the donor wishes, he can receive this donation from him. 2206-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person makes a donation, then gives up this donation and brings someone to witness that the donated person has made this donation to him, whether it is a gift, gold, silver or an animal, the donor will be given the testimony of his witness. are sworn together. If he refrains from taking an oath, the donor is made to take an oath. If he also refrains from taking an oath, he will give the donor the donation he claimed if he has a witness. If the forgiven has no witnesses, he has no right. 2207-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person asks for his reward from Allah and makes a donation, then if the donor dies, they will take his place and get his rights. If the donor dies before receiving the donation, the donated person has no rights. Because a donation was made to that person, and he did not receive this donation. If the donor does not want to donate, even though he has evidenced it with a witness, he has no right to do so. The donor can take the donation (from his hand) at any time. 2208-) Omar b. Khattab (radiy-Allâhu  anh) says: “A person becomes a gift because of kinship or as charity. 
If he makes a grant, he cannot return from this grant. If a person makes a donation by saying that he expects something in return, he can withdraw from his donation if he is not satisfied.” 2209-) Imam-i  Malik says: Our rule unanimously is as follows: If the grant made with the expectation of a return undergoes a change, such as an excess or deficiency compared to the donor, the donor must give the donor the value it was on the day he received the grant. Shaybani, 805. The donor should not expect anything in return. If it expects a return, it ceases to be a grant and cannot receive rewards or rewards. 2210-) Imam-i  Malik says: The unanimous decision is as follows: If a person gives alms to his son and his son receives that alms, or if the child is in his father's home and his father witnesses that he gave alms to him, the one who gives alms has no right to withdraw from alms. . Because that person cannot return from his alms. 2211-) Imam-i  Malik says: The unanimous decision is as follows: If a person donates to his child or gives a gift other than charity, the child will not be able to show that he owes him a debt that some people have given him by trusting this gift his father gave him. The person may withdraw from this gift. 
After the existence of such debts is in question, the father has no right to withdraw from the gift given. 
2212-) Or, the father gives a gift to his son or daughter and a woman marries this man, the reason for marrying is the wealth of 
that man and the gift his father gave him. In this case, the father wants to withdraw from the gift he has given, or a man marries 
a girl whom his father gave a gift, and the reason for marrying her and increasing her mahr is the wealth of the woman, her 
property and the gift given by her father. If the father then says: "I'm giving up on this job", the father has no right to withdraw from 
the gift he gave to his son and daughter. 
2213-) Jabir b. From Abdullah al-Ansari  (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If an Umra is donated to 
any person and their children, that person will receive it. This Umra never returns to the donor. Because the grant of the donor is a 
grant in which the inheritance provisions are valid.» 
Muslim, Hibat, 24/4, no: 20; Shaybani, 811. 
2214-) Mekhul ed-Dimeshki,  al-Kasim  b. He asked Muhammad about Umra and the opinions of the people about it. b. 
“All the people I have lived with maintain conditions regarding their property and the grants given to them,” said Mohammed. 
2215-) Imam-i  Malik says: The rule we have is as follows: If the donor did not tell the record of "Umra to you and your 
children", Umra can come back to him. 

2216-) Nafi (radiyallahu anh) says: Hadrat-i  Omar's son Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) inherited a house from his sister, Hadrat Hafsa. Hazrat Hafsa (radiyallahu anha) bought this house from Zayd b. He gave it to Khattab's daughter to use as a lifelong residence. When Zayd's daughter died, Abdullah b. Omar took possession of the house with the view that it was his own. Shaybani, 812. 2217-) Zayd b. Khalid al-Juheni  says: A man asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) the verdict of the found thing. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Know its container and vineyard, then make it known to the public for a year. If the owner comes, you give it to him. If he doesn't come, you can spend it." Man: O Messenger of Allah! 
What if the sheep was found?» said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): He is yours or any of your other religious brothers or wolf.” That means you can get it if it doesn't have an owner where you found it. gave the answer. Man: What is the ruling on the lost camel?» said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): What is it to you? That means you can't get it where you found it. It has a well-watered  belly and strong feet. Until the owner comes, he can fill his stomach with the leaves of the tree and go to the water” (So you cannot touch him). Bukhari, Lukata, 45/4; Muslim, Luke, 31/3. 2218-) Abdullah b. Badr says: I was a guest in the house of a tribe on the way to Damascus and I found a sack containing eighty dinars, it was sent to Umar b. When I told Khattab, Hazrat Umar said to me: Announce it at the mosque gates for a year and announce it to those coming from Damascus. After a year, you can spend it however you want," he said. 2219-) From Nafi: A man found a lost. In this connection, Abdullah b. He came to Omar and said to him: I found a lost person, what do you think about it?' Abdullah b. Umar said to him: Announce him to the people. He said: "I have declared". Abdullah said: Announce more. The man replied: I have announced it. Abdullah b. Omar: I can't say "eat" it, if you wanted it, you couldn't have bought it (from where you found it)?" said. The meaning of (I can't "eat" it) means that I can't command you to take it into your possession without the responsibility to pay it, you can spend it with that responsibility. 2220-) Imam-i  Malik says about a slave who 
finds a lost item and spends it before the end of the time allowed for the lost -this period is one year-: This loss is fixed in the 
dhimma of the slave. The master either pays for the loss the slave has spent, or delivers the slave to its lost owners. He keeps what he has lost until the allotted time is up, then if he spends it, the slave becomes indebted. Slaves are not given in place of this debt. His master is also not responsible for this debt. 
2221-) Ansardan Sabit b. ed-Dahhak  (radiyallahu anh) says: I found a camel in a place called Harra and tied it up, then Umar b. I presented him to Khattab (radiyallahu anh). Hadrat Umar ordered me to announce him to the public three times. When I told Hadrat Umar that the camel was in my land, he ordered me: Release him where you find him. 
2222-) Said b. From al-Museyyeb  (radiyallahu anh): Omar b. Khattab (radiy-Allâhu  anh), leaning his back on the Ka'ba, said: 
Whoever buys a lost animal has done wrong.» In fact, Zayd b. He is deceased from Halid. See also 
Muslim, 31-Lukata, 1, no:12. 
2223-) Ibn Shihab says: Umar b. In the time of Khattab (radiyallahu anh), the lost camels were safe. 

They are cubs and no one would touch them. Osman b. During his caliphate, Affan (radiyallahu anh) ordered that these camels be announced, then sold, and if the owner comes, his money will be given to him. 2224-) ÿurahbîl b. From Said: Sa'd b. Ubade had participated in a war with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). His mother was dying in Medina. His mother was told: Make a will. He said: What should I bequeath? He said that the property belongs to Sa'd and he died before Sa'd came. When Sa'd arrived, the situation was explained to him. Sa'd: O Messenger of Allah, if I give alms instead of my mother, will it benefit her?' she asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) replied: Thereupon, Sa'd said their names and said, "This garden is charity for my mother." Nesaî, Vesâya, 30/7. 2225-) From Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Prophet: A man said to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): "My mother died suddenly. I think that if he could talk, he would be giving charity. May I give alms on his behalf?” said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Yes. Bukhari, Vesaya, 55/19; Muslim, Zakat, 12/15ÿ no: 51, Vasÿyyet, 15/2, No: 12-ia  2226-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: al-Haris  b. A man from the Ansar, one of the sons of al-Hazraj,  gave charity to his parents, and when they both died, a date palm fell from the property he had given to this man. He asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about the issue: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: You have been given the reward of charity. Inherit it” he said. Ibn Abdilber says: This hadith has been narrated in various ways. 
2227-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is not right for a Muslim person who has property to bequeath to sleep for two nights without his will written." Bukhari, Vesaya, 55/1; Muslim, Testament, 25/1,2,3. The word two nights in the hadith is not a limitation. This expression is used to describe scarcity. It expresses that even for a short time, that time should not be spent without a will. 2228-) Imam-i  Malik says: The consensus we have is as follows: A person who makes a will in which a slave is freed from slavery or something else, in his health or illness, can change this will until he dies, and make it whatever he wants. If he wants to throw this will aside and change it completely, he can. However, if he has willed that a slave be freed after his death, there is no way he can change that. This provision of the will is in accordance with the commandment of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) "It is not right for a Muslim person who has property to bequeath to sleep for two nights without his will written." 
Malik says: If the testator did not have the right to change his will and the freeing of the slave announced in the will, then the testator would not have been able to save on his slave and other willed goods. However, the person makes a will while the cantor is alive and the cantor is a passenger. The person who makes a will while he is alive and while traveling needs this property. If their power of disposition is taken away from their will, this will cause them not to make a will. All humanity will suffer from this. Since you cannot deprive them of their power of disposition, this right should not be taken from them, since changing the will later is also a disposition. Malik says: The unanimous decree is as follows: A person who makes a will can change his will if he wishes. However, if he has willed to free a slave after his death, he has no right to change it. Shaybani, 734. To make a will to free a slave is a binding, irrevocable contract. Other wills are not binding, they can be changed 2229-) Amr b. From Suleym ez-Zuraki: Ömer b. It was said to al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh) that: There is a rich boy from Gassan who has not reached puberty here. His heirs are in Damascus. There is only one uncle here. (What should be done?)" Hadrat Omar said: Let him make a will to his uncle's daughter. The boy also bequeathed the place called "Bi'r-i  Cüÿem" to his uncle's daughter. This item was sold for thirty thousand dirhams. His uncle's daughter, Umm Amr b. Suleym ez-Zuraki.  Shaybani, 735. 
2230-) Abu Bakr b. From Hazm: A Ghassan boy was dying in Medina, and his heirs were in Damascus. The subject was told to Hazrat Umar: So-and-so  is dying, should he make a will? it was said. Hazrat Umar said: Let him do it. Bekir says: The child was ten or twelve years old. He bequeathed the place called "Bi'r-i  Cûÿem". Its owner sold it for thirty thousand dirhams (silver money). 2231-) Imam-i  Malik says: If they are smart enough to know what they have willed, then the will made by a weak, stupid, and sometimes recovering insane person is acceptable. If they are not smart enough to know what he willed and if they are too stupid, their will is not permissible. 
2232-) Sa'd b. Abi Vakkas (radiyallahu anh) narrates: When my illness increased in the year of the farewell pilgrimage, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to visit me and said to him: O Messenger of Allah, as you can see, my illness has intensified. I am the owner. I have no heirs other than a daughter. I can give two-thirds  of my property as charity. 
am i?» said. (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): No, you cannot.” Can I give half of it as charity?” said. No,” he commanded. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): You can give one-third  as charity, not less than one-third.  It is better for you to leave your heirs rich than to leave them as benevolent poor. Every alimony you give to earn Allah's approval, and even every bite you put in your wife's mouth, will be a means of earning rewards.” O Messenger of Allah, my friends will go to Madinah with you. I said, 'Am I going to die in Mecca? Some of the Companions were worried that his migration would be incomplete because his death was in Mecca. (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: (No) you will not die in Mecca (now). you will do more righteous deeds, and your rank will rise. You will live until the Muslims take advantage of you and the polytheists suffer from you. my god! Complete the migration of my Companions and do not turn them back. 
Bukhari, Cenaiz, 23/37; Muslim, Testament, 35/1, no: 5. Among these immigrants, Sa'd b. How miserable is Hawla (he later 
had to return to Mecca and died there). Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) 
He was saddened by the death of Sa'd in Mecca. Bukhari, Cenaiz, 23/37; Muslim, Vasiyet, 25/1, no: 

5. 2233-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person will bequeath one third of his property to a man, the same person will also make a will to another man: Let him serve him as long as he lives, then he is free. » If it says: If the value of the slave is one-third  of the property of the deceased, the service of the slave is valued. Then it is divided between these two people. One-third  of the one who will receive one-third  of the property; the remainder is given to the person whom the slave will serve. Both receive from the slave's service or, if employed, from his wages in the amount of their shares. When the person whom the slave will serve dies, the slave becomes free. 2234-) Regarding those who bequeath one-third  of their property, saying, "I have bequeathed to such and such and such and such property," and those who say, "this property is more than one third," Imam-i  Malik says: They have the choice between giving the whole of the bequest and taking the rest themselves, or separating one third of the deceased's property and giving it to the bequests. If they wish, the rights of the bequeathed persons will be equal in this third. Shaybani, 736. According to his sect, a will is permissible for one-third  of the property after debts. More can be done with the permission of the heirs. The heirs cannot return from this trace. 2235-) Imam-i  Malik says: The best thing I've heard about a pregnant woman's will and the judgments she makes in her property, and the things that are permissible for this woman, is this: A pregnant woman is like a sick person, if the disease is so mild that it doesn't frighten her, she will do whatever she wants with her property. If the disease is severe enough to be feared, this patient has the right to save only one third of his property. Malik says: So is the pregnant woman. Her first pregnancy consists of good news and joy. Illness and nothing to be afraid of. For, Almighty Allah states in the Qur'an: "We gave him the glad tidings of Isaac (Sarah, the wife of Hazrat Ibrahim). After Isaac, he felt a slight discomfort. We gave Ya'qub» Hud 71 became pregnant. When time passed and her pregnancy became heavy (a child grew up in her womb), she and Adam prayed to their Lord: O Lord! If you give us a good child, we will certainly be among the grateful.” A'raf, 189 When a woman becomes heavy, she can only judge one third of her property. The period during which he can save all his property is the entire first six months. Almighty Allah, in His Book of the Holy Quran, "Mothers breastfeed their children for two full years" Bakara, 233 "The period of separation of the child from the mother by being pregnant is thirty months" Ahkaf, 15. A woman six months from the day she got pregnant only has a say in one-third  of her property. 2236-) Imam-i  Malik says about a man who fought at the front: When this man attacks the enemy from the front, he has a say in only one-third  of his property. As long as this man fights, he is like a pregnant woman and a patient with fear of death. 2237-) Imam-i  Malik says: "It has been prescribed for you that if one of you is about to die, if he has wealth, he must bequeath it to his parents and relatives." The provision of the 180th verse of Bakara is abrogated by the verses about the division of inheritance in Allah's book. 2238-) Imam-i Malik says: In our opinion, the unanimously accepted rule is this: It is not permissible to make any will to the heir. However, it is permissible if the heirs accept it. If some of the heirs accept but others do not, the shares of those who accept the will are permissible, those who do not accept the will receive their rights in the will. 
2239-) If he asks the other heirs for permission to bequeath more than one third of the property to one of the severely ill heirs, who can only bequeath one-third  of his wealth, Imam-i  Malik says in this regard: If it is permissible for the heirs to reverse their decision, they will all return. Even when the testator dies, they would take all the property themselves, and they would prevent him from bequeathing the property that he was allowed to bequeath as one-third  or more than one-third.  2240-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person asks the heirs for permission in a bequest he will make to one of his heirs while he is in good health, it will not be binding if they give this permission. The heirs can return if they wish. The reason for this rule is as follows: As long as a person is healthy, it is his natural right to spend on all of his property. He can save whatever he wants on his property. If he wants, he can give all of his property as charity, or he can give it to anyone he wants. However While making a will to the heirs who cannot receive a share from the inheritance due to the existence of other heirs, the will is permissible if the heirs ask for permission if they give permission. In this case, the will that he made on one third of his property is valid. In two-thirds,  the other heirs have more rights than the disinherited person. This provision is valid if the situation of the heirs and the property they allow are not available. While the testator is about to die, if one of the heirs wants to donate his inheritance to him, he can donate it. Then, if the deceased has not made any savings on this property, the property returns to the donor. However, if the deceased said to an heir that "he is so weak, I want you to donate his inheritance to him" and the donor donated his inheritance to this weak person, then this will is permissible if the deceased gave his name to that person. If a deceased person dies after one of the heirs donates his inheritance, he saves a part of it and dies without saving the other part, the remaining property will return to the donor. The donor receives the remaining property after the death of the donor. 
2241-) If a person makes a will, he says that he gave something to one of the heirs, but that heir did not receive it, and what happens if the heirs do not accept this will? In this regard, Imam-i  Malik says: Ita mal returns to the heirs as an inheritance to be divided in accordance with the book of Allah. Because the deceased did not want to have one-third  of this property. For this reason, people, one third of which was bequeathed to them, cannot distribute this property. 
2242-) From Abu Urve (radiy-Allâhu  anh): A mild-mannered  and virile person was with Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu  anha), the wife of the Prophet, Abdullah b. He said to Abi Umayya (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) heard his words: Abdullah! If Allah (swt) grants you the opportunity to conquer the city of Taif tomorrow, I advise you to go to Gaylan's daughter, she is so fat that when you look from the front, the flesh of her stomach is four times, and eight times from the sides.» Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (Now) they should not come near you. The majority narrated it in this way as mursal. Bukhari (Magazi, 64/56) and Muslim (Salam, 39/13, no:32) narrate it consistently. 2243-) al-Qasim b. Muhammad (radiyallahu anh) says: Umar b. al-Khattab  (radiyallahu anh) was married to a woman from the Ansar. He had a son named Asim from this woman. Then they divorced. When Hazrat Omar came to Cuba, he saw his son Asim playing in the courtyard of the mosque. She embraced him. He sat on the animal in front of him. Thereupon, his grandmother came to him and wanted to take the child from Hazrat Umar, and he did not give it. They came to Hazrat Abu Bakr together. Hazrat Umar said: This is my son. The woman said: My son. Bakr said to Hazrat Umar: "Do not come between the child and him, let them go". Omer did not fall on him either. Malik says: This is how I apply it. 2244-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the shopping done by a person who buys animals, fabrics and other commercial goods is not permissible, this person is ordered to return the goods he bought to their owner. The owner says: The owner pays the money for the goods he bought back, not according to the day it was returned to him, but according to the day he sold it (exactly the money he received). Because the payment is based on the day the customer receives the goods. If the value of the goods has decreased with the customer, the loss belongs to the owner; The excess value is still the owner's property. When the customer receives the goods, the goods are in demand, the price may be high and the price may be low when the goods are not in demand while returning them. (The customer is not responsible for these. Because the sale is actually void. The goods are deemed to be entrusted to the customer). For example, if the value of the goods was ten dinars when purchasing the goods and decreased to one dinar when returning it, the owner cannot demand nine dinars from the customer. Or, if the value of the goods increased to ten dinars when they were selling the goods, but the value of the goods increased to ten dinars, the customer cannot ask the owner for more than nine dinars. However, he receives one dinar, which is the value of the day he receives the goods. Malik says: This is explained by the following issue: If a thief steals any item, its value is checked on the day he stole it. If the hand reaches the amount to cut, his hand is cut off. If the cut off work is delayed due to his imprisonment or escape, and in the meantime, if the value of the thing he stole falls to the amount that does not require the beheading, his hand is cut off. If the value at the time of stealing is so low that it does not require cutting off the hand, the subsequent increase in the value of the goods does not require cutting the hand. 
2245-) Yahya b. From Said (radiyallahu anh): Abud-Darda  wrote to Salman Farisi, "Come to the holy land". Salman wrote to him as follows: “No land makes any person holy, it is his deeds that will make man holy. From what I've heard, you've become a doctor and you're treating, if you can heal, good luck. If you're pretending to be a doctor, avoid killing a person and going to hell." When Abud-Darda  had judged between two people, and after those two had turned and left, he would look at them and say: "Go back to me and tell me your story again." By Allah, Abud-Darda  was pretending to be a doctor. 2246-) Imam-i  Malik says: If someone asks a slave for help in an important job without permission from his master, and if such a job is done with a wage, if something happens to the slave, that person will pay the value of the slave. If nothing has happened to the slave, if the master wants the wages of his work, he has the authority to do so. This provision is for us. 2247-) Imam-i  Malik says: The personal property of a person who is partly free and partly slave is kept with him. However, he can spend from this property to eat and wear. If this slave dies, his property partially goes to his master. 2248-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our 
opinion, the rule is as follows. If the father wishes to have the property of his child, he will calculate (and take from his property) the cash or property he has spent on the child since the day he has the property. 
2249-) Abdurrahman b. From Delâf el-Müzenî:  A man from the tribe of Juhayna used to pass the pilgrims and buy camels and profit from these camels. Then he would go fast again, passing the pilgrims. It went bankrupt once. Situation of Umar 
b. It was transferred to Khattab. Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: O people! Useyfia, Useyfia of the Cüheyne tribe; He is a person who likes to be praised for "passed the pilgrims" rather than being pious and trustworthy. Now, this person has done shopping as a debt and has not come close to paying his debt. The debtor has become to take away all his property. Whoever has it should come to us in the morning. We will divide the property among the creditors. Avoid borrowing. The front of the debt is sadness, and the end is the taking away of the property.” 2250-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, the following should be done for crimes committed by slaves: If a slave injured someone or took something secretly or stole something under protection, or plucked or damaged a fruit hanging on a branch, or committed a theft that did not require his hand to be cut off. In all these, the slave himself is taken as punishment, and it goes no further than that. Whether his crime is little or much. Only if the master of the slave wishes to give the value of what his slave took or damaged, or the food of what he injured, he can give. His slave remains himself. If the slave wants to give himself, he can. Other than that, the master does not have to give anything. The master is free in this regard, he chooses the path he wishes. 
2251-) Said b. From al-Museyyeb:  Osman b. Affan (radiyallahu anh) said: If a person makes a donation to his young 
son, who has not reached the age to have the donation given to him, announces it, confirms it with witnesses, this donation 
is valid if it is under the supervision of his father. 2252-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person dies after donating gold or silver to 
his young son—while  the donor is still in his own hands—the  child will not receive anything from it. However, if his father 
appoints this donation and separates it or puts it with someone else on behalf of his son, this donation is valid for his son; it 
will be your son. 
2253-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If a person who frees his share in 
a slave has enough to free the remaining shares of the slave, the slave will be valued fairly, he will pay the share of the 
other partners, and the slave is freed. If that person does not own any property, his mandate for his own share is valid.” 
Bukhari, Itk, 49/4; Muslim, Itk, 20, no: 1. 2254-) Imam-i  Malik says: We unanimously believe that the action is as follows: 
Whether the master frees one-third,  one-fourth,  half or any of his shares in the slave after his death, this slave is freed only 
to the amount of the share declared by the master. This provision is due to the fact that the emancipation of that share is 
obligatory, it comes into effect after the death of the master, and it is optional as long as the master is alive. If the slave's 
emancipation takes place in the name of the master who made his will, the amount of the master's property (when he died) 
will be freed. The rest will not be freed. Because the owner's property belongs to others. How can the part that is not 
emancipated be emancipated on behalf of others!? Just as they were not the ones who freed some of the slaves, their 
guardian does not belong to them either. The person who frees is the person who dies. Vela is also his right. It cannot be 
attributed to the property of others. However, if the Master has willed that the remaining part of the slave be freed from his 
property, this will is binding on both the givers and the other partners. Partners have no right to refuse to accept this. This 
will is valid for one-third  of the deceased's property. Because there is no harm to those who give in a third of the goods. 
2255-) Imam-i  Malik says; If a person frees one third of his slave while he is sick, all of the slave will be freed from one third 
of his property. Because there is a difference between a person who freed one third of his slave while he was sick and a 
person who freed one third of his slave after his death (by will). If the one who frees one third of his slave after his death is 
alive, he can give up the emancipation and the emancipation will be abolished. But if the master who freed one-third  of his 
slave during his illness survived, the entire slave would be freed in his own name. When he dies, one third of his property 
becomes free. Because, in his life, his declaration is valid for all of his property, and in death, his declaration is valid for one 
third of his property. Shaybani, 840. 2256-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person who definitively frees his slave can no longer 
stipulate the services and jobs that he stipulated to his normal slave after the slave's martyrdom becomes acceptable, his 
immunity is finalized and his inheritance is fixed, and He cannot make slaves do the work they would do. Because the 
Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If the master who frees his share in a slave has enough property to 
free the remaining share of the slave, the slave is valued fairly, he gives the money to the other partners, and the slave is 
freed on his behalf." Malik says: If the slave is only a person and freed some of it, what is worthy of this person is to complete 
the freedom of the slave. Part slave cannot be left partly free. 

2257-) Muhammed b. From Shirin (radiyallahu anh): In the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), 
a man freed six of his slaves while he was dying. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) accepted the emancipation of two of 
these slaves by drawing lots among the slaves. Malik says: This man had no property other than slaves. 
2258-) Rabia b. From Ebi Abdurrahman: Ebân b. In Osman's governorship, a man freed all the slaves. 
He had no other property. On Eban's order, these slaves were made into three companies. He drew lots to find out 
which group would count as one-third  of the deceased's property and be freed. One of these three divisions was hit by 
lots and the slaves hit by the Quran were freed. 2259-) Ibn Shihab says: When the slave is freed, his property will be 
yours. Such is the exercise. 

2260-) Imam-i  Malik says: The following issue explains the issue that when the slave is freed, his property will be his own: Mükatep, Book, means to collect in the dictionary. In the language of fiqh, it means making an agreement to the master of the slave to work freely and pay the price of his freedom. Mukatep is the name of the person who is free in terms of earning and is a slave himself. When he provides the provision in the agreement, he becomes free. When the contract is made, the property becomes his own. Even if it doesn't require it. Because when the contract of mukataba (kitabet) is finalized, it replaces the contract of vela. The mukatab and the slave's property are not like their own children. His children are still considered slaves, not like his other possessions. Because, according to the unanimous act, when a slave is freed, his property will be subject to him, and his child will not be subject to him. In the same way, when a contract of inscription is made, his property becomes subject to him, and his child is not subject to him. In other words, their children are not freed or considered to have been. 2261-) Imam-i  Malik says: The following issue explains this: When the slave and the mukatep go bankrupt, their property and the concubines of the ummu-elad  are taken from them. Their children cannot be taken away. Because their children are not their property. 2262-) Imam-i  Malik says: Another thing that explains this is this: If the slave is sold, the child of the slave will not be included in his property, even if the buyer of the slave makes it a condition to buy his property together with the slave. 2263-) Imam-i  Malik says: Another explanatory issue is this: If a slave injures a person, he and his property are taken in return, but his child cannot be taken. 
2264-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): Umar b. Al-Khattab  said: “If a concubine bears a child from her master, her master cannot sell her, forgive her, or inherit her. He takes advantage of it. When the master dies, the concubine becomes free.” 2265-) The following is reported from Imam-i  Malik: When a concubine tortured by her master with fire, when she complained to Hadrat Umar, she freed her. 2266-) Imam-i  Malik says: The unanimous decree is as follows: It is not permissible for a person who covers all of his debt to free a slave. It is not permissible for a child to free a slave until he reaches the age of puberty. Even if the child who is appointed as a guardian on the property reaches puberty, it is not permissible to free a slave until he manages his property. 2267-) Omar b. Al-Hakam  (radiyallahu anh) said: I came to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and said: O Messenger of Allah! My concubine used to herd my sheep. When he came to me, one of the sheep had disappeared. I asked my concubine about this sheep. He said: "The wolf ate him". I'm sorry that the wolf ate the sheep. I'm a human too, I slapped him in the face. I only have one concubine. Am I going to free him?” Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said to my concubine: Where is (jalla celâluh)?” said. Concubine: In the sky » In the sky, the concubine wanted to express the existence and majesty of Allah. he replied. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Who am I?” she asked. The concubine said: You are the Messenger of Allah. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Liberate him. Shafii, Risale, no: 242. 
2268-) Utbe b. Mesud's grandson Ubeydullah b. From Abdullah (radiyallahu anh): A man from the Ansar brought his black (Abyssinian) concubine to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! I have a believing concubine, if you are of the opinion that my concubine is a believer, I will set her free.” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to my concubine: Do you testify that there is no god but Allah? she asked. He said: Yes. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Do you bear witness that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah?” she asked. He said: Yes. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Do you firmly believe in resurrection after death?” she asked. My concubine replied: Yes. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Free him". Ibn Abdilber says; It is mursel in appearance. But it can get tired of being happy. Because Ubeydullah saw a group of Companions. Zurkanî says: The above view is open to discussion. Because, if that were the case, there would never have been a mursal hadith. Maybe because Ubeydullah saw a group of Companions, he meant those who narrated this hadith. 2269-) Al-Makburi  said to Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu  anh) “It is permissible for a man who is supposed to free a slave if he frees a child born as a result of adultery. does it?» he was asked. Abu Huraira said: Yes, that will suffice. 2270-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Ansar from Fedâle b. Ubayd (radiy-Allâhu  anh) was one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam). He asked him: "Is it permissible for a person who is supposed to free a slave to free a child born of adultery?" he was asked. He replied: Yes, it is permissible. 2271-) The following was reported to Imam-i  Malik: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) said, "Can a man who is supposed to free a slave buy a slave on the condition that he will free them?" he was asked. He said: No. 2272-) Imam-i  Malik says: The best thing I have heard about the slaves who should be freed is this: A person who needs to free a slave cannot buy it on the condition that he will free it. Because if he does this, he is not considered a complete slave, which he freed. Because the seller gives a low price to the person who stipulates that he will emancipate. 2273-) Imam-i  Malik says: There is no harm in buying a slave on the condition that a person who will free a slave as a voluntary basis will free him. 2274-) Imam-i  Malik says: The best thing heard about slaves who must be freed is this: It is not permissible to free a Christian slave or a Jewish slave in exchange for such a slave. Likewise, mukatep Umm Veled (slave with a free contract), mudebber (slave who will be freed at the death of the master), 
It is not permissible to free a slave (a slave who has given birth to a child from his master), a slave who has been freed 
for a while, and a blind slave instead of the slave who should be freed. If it is wanted to free a slave in vain, Christian, Jewish 
and Magian slaves can be freed. Because the Almighty Allah has said in the Qur'an: (Either release without ransom, or by 
taking ransom) Surah Muhammad, verse 4. 
2275-) Here, being released without taking ransom means being freed. But the slaves that must be freed, as Allah has declared 
in the Qur'an, are believing slaves. 2276-) Imam-i  Malik says: This is the case with atonement and feeding the poor. In these 
penances, only the poor Muslims are fed. No non-Muslim  can be fed. 

2277-) Abdurrahman b. Abi Amre al-Ansari  said: My mother wanted to make a will, then left it in the morning and died. He 
intended to free the slave. b. To Muhammad (radiyallahu anh): If I freed a slave instead of my mother, would it benefit her?» 
said. November b. Muhammad (radiyallahu anh) said: Sa'd b. Ubade (radiy-Allâhu  anh) asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-
Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): My mother is dead, will freeing a slave for her benefit her?” she asked. (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) 
replied, “Yes.” 
2278-) Yahya b. Said said: One day, Abu Bakr's son died while he was sleeping. On his behalf, Hazrat Aisha, the wife of 
the Prophet, freed many slaves. Malik says: This is the best thing I've heard about it. 
2279-) Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Prophet, to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): Which slave is more virtuous to free? he 
was asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied, "The most expensive and the most valuable one next 
to its owner". Bukhari, Itk, 49/2; Muslim, Faith, 1/34, no: 136. 
2280-) From Nafi (radiyallahu anh): Abdullah b. Umar freed the child from adultery with his mother. 
2281-) Hisham b. Urwa reported from her father: Hadrat Aisha said: A concubine named Berire came to me and said: I made 
a mukataba agreement with my master. Every year, one rupee: 12 dirhams (a measure of weight depending on the country). I 
will give a total of nine uke. When I said, "Help me", I said to him: Velân Velâ: There is a kinship between the freeing master and 
the freed slave, and if the slave dies without his heirs after regaining their freedom, the inheritance goes to his master or his heirs. 
If your masters are willing to give me in advance on your behalf, on the condition that it belongs to me, I will immediately give 
(and set you free)" Thereupon Berire went to her masters. When he came back from them, he said to me: The Messenger of 
Allah (pbuh) was sitting next to me: I told my masters what he told me. Velâ they did not accept his offer without being their own. 
(sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) heard our conversation and asked about the issue. I told them in detail what had happened. 
Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to me: Buy that concubine, and stipulate that the guardian 
belongs to them when buying. Anyway, the guardian belongs to the one who frees him.” so did i. Then the Messenger of Allah 
(sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) stood up in the congregation and praised Allah, saying: "What is wrong with some people! They put 
forward conditions that are not in Allah's book? 

Conditions not found in Allah's book are invalid, even if there are a hundred of them. The decree of Allah is more worthy 
of being obeyed. Allah's condition is more reliable. Vela belongs only to the one who frees him.” Bukhari, Buyu, 34/73; Muslim, 
Itk, 20/2, no:8. 
2282-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The mother of the believers, Hadrat Aisha, wanted to buy a concubine and 
set her free. And the masters of the concubine said: We can sell this concubine to you as her guardian will belong to us.” 
Thereupon, I explained the matter to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He also said: This condition does not prevent the 
guardian from belonging to you. Because guardianship belongs to the one who frees him.” Bukhari, Buyu, 34/73; Muslim, Itk, 

20/2, no:5. 
2283-) From Abdurrahman's daughter Amre (radiy-Allâhu  anh): She came to Berire to ask help to Hazrat Aisha, the mother of 
the believers. Hadrat Aisha said to her, "If your masters accept me to free you at once by paying the price, I will do it." Then 
Berire explained the situation to his masters. And they said: If the Velan does not belong to us, we will not accept it.' Narrated by 
Amra, he continued: "I think that Hadrat Aisha told the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about this issue. The Messenger of Allah (may 
peace be upon him) said to him: Buy him and set him free. Because vela belongs to the one who frees him.” Hafiz says: It is 
mursel in appearance. Malik's narrators are undisputed on this issue. Bukhari, Mukatab, 50/4. 

2284-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade selling and forgiving vela. Buhari, 
Itk, 49/10; Muslim, Itk, 20/3. No:16, 2285-) Imam-i  Malik says about the slave who bought himself from his master on 
condition that he would make a guardian agreement with whomever he wishes: This is not permissible. Vela belongs to the 
one who frees him. If a man allows his freed slave to make a guardian agreement with anyone he wishes, it will not be 
permissible. Because the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Walla belongs to the one who frees him”, and 
forbids selling and forgiving guardians. When it is permissible for the freed slave to make a wala agreement with whomever he 
wishes and to stipulate this, it is to forgive the vela. 
2286-) Rebia b. From Abdurrahman (radiyallahu anh): Zubayr b. Avvam bought a slave and freed him. This slave had 
sons from a free woman. When Zubayr freed the slave, he said, "The custody of the children belongs to me." The masters who 
had freed the children's mothers said: No, we have their guardianship. Saint 

Osman b. They took him to Affan (radiyallahu anh). He also ruled that the guardians of the children belonged to Hazrat Zubayr. 2287-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Said b. To al-Museyyeb  (radiy-Allâhu  anh): “To whom does the 
guardianship of the children of a slave born to a free woman belong?” he was asked. Said (radiyallahu anh) replied: "If the children's father dies as a slave without being freed, the guardians of the children belong to the masters who freed their mother before." 
2288-) Imam-i  Malik says: The child of the woman who is cursed and divorced from the freed slaves belongs to the masters who freed her mother. His mother's masters become his masters. When they die, they inherit the child. If the child commits a crime, they give his diet. If the father admits that the child is his own, the child is registered on him. They inherit the child's inheritance. The guardian of the child belongs to the masters who freed his father. They inherit the child's inheritance. It's up to them to feed their guilt. Hadd is also applied to the father of the child (as punishment for his previous slander). 2289-) Imam-i  Malik says: There is no difference between a cursed and free woman whose husbands accept that the child is their own, and a cursed and freed woman. As long as the husbands do not accept that the child is their own, the inheritance of the child of the free woman goes to the remaining treasury after the mother and the mother receive the shares of a siblings. The remaining inheritance of the child of the freed woman is distributed to the masters who freed their mother. Because these children have no ancestry and no paternal relatives. When their ancestry is fixed, the inheritance is called asabe. remains. 2290-) Imam-i  Malik says: Regarding the child of a slave whose father was free, born of a free woman, the action is as follows: Dede, the free children of the slave born from a free woman are the heirs 
of the children as long as their father is a slave. When their fathers are freed, the guardians of the children recourse to the masters who freed their fathers. If he dies as a slave, your grandfather will inherit the inheritance. If the slave has two free children and their father is a slave, if one of these children dies, their grandfather inherits from the father. 
2291-) Imam-i  Malik says the following about a concubine whose husband was a slave, who was freed while she was pregnant, and whose husband was freed before she gave birth or after giving birth: Because before his mother was emancipated, this child was also enslaved. This child is not like the child who was conceived after his mother was freed. Because the father of the child who was conceived after his mother's emancipation takes custody of him when he is emancipated. 2292-) If a slave asks his master's permission to free his slave, and he gives this permission, the freed slave becomes 
the master of the freed slave. Even if the freed slave is freed, this vela will not return to him. 2293-) Abdulmalik, his father Abu Bakr b. Abdurrahman b. al-Harith  b. He narrated that Hisham said: al-Asi  b. Hisham died and left behind three sons. Two of them were one parent and the other one was a father. One of the parents and siblings died, leaving behind property and freed slaves. A brother of his parents inherited this property and the heir of those freed slaves. Then this child also died, leaving behind a son, a father and a brother. His son said: "My father's property and the heir of the freed slaves have become my property." No, it's not like that, only the goods have fallen into your share. As for the guardianship of the freed slaves, it has not fallen to you. If my brother died today, will you tell me, wouldn't I be his heir?" When they could not come to an agreement, Hazrat Uthman b. They were judged in the presence of Affan (radiyallahu anh). Hazrat Uthman decided that the guardianship of freed slaves fell to his brother. 
2294-) Abdullah's father, Abu Bakr b. Hazm narrated as follows: Ben Ebân b. While sitting next to Osman, with a group of people from the Cüheyna tribe, al-Haris  b. A group of the sons of al-Hazraj  became the reasoning. a woman, al-Haris  
b. Ibrahim b. She was married to a man named Kuleyb, and the woman died, leaving behind property and freed slaves, and her son and husband inherited this woman. Then, when this child died, his heirs said: We are the guardians of the slaves who have fallen from his mother to this child.” Those from the Juhayna tribe: No: It's not like that. Those freed slaves are our daughters. When their child dies, they will be our guardian and we will inherit them. Eban decided that the guardians of the freed slaves belonged to those from the Juhayna tribe. 2295-) Said b. al-Museyyeb  says: A man dies, leaving behind his three sons and the guardians of the slaves he freed. Then two of his sons die, leaving their children behind. The surviving freed slaves of three children become the heirs of the freed slaves. When he dies, his own children and his brother's children become equal heirs to the guardian. 2296-) Imam-i  Malik is the slave of Sâibe to whom Ibn Shihab said, "You are free", with the intention of freeing Shaiba. He asked about his legacy. Ibn Shihab replied: He makes a guardian agreement with whomever he wants, and if he dies, his successor cannot bequeath to anyone. His legacy remains in the treasury. The treasury meets the diet of their crimes. 2297-) Imam-i  Malik says: The best thing I've heard about Shaibe is this: Shaibe cannot make a guardian agreement with anyone. His legacy remains in the treasury. The treasury covers the diet of their crimes. 2298-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a Jew and a Christian whose slave was a Muslim before him freed this slave without being forced to sell it, the guardian of the freed slave belongs to the Muslims. 
Even if they are Christians or Muslims, their guardians will not return to them. However, if he frees his Jewish or Christian slave before he becomes a Muslim, then if the slave becomes a Muslim and then the freedman becomes a Muslim, the slave's guardian will return to the freedman. Because on the day they were freed, the guardianship belonged to him. 2299-) Imam-i  Malik says: The Muslim child of a Jew and a Christian, whose slaves became Muslims before them, will inherit this slave. If his slaves (after them) became Muslims while being freed, the child of a Jewish or Christian person who converted to Islam has no right to the guardianship of this Muslim slave. Because neither a Jew nor a Christian has the right to guardianship. The guardianship of this Muslim slave belongs to the Muslim community. 
2300-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar used to say: Mükateb, the book of the book he made, is the release of the slave in order to earn the price of freedom when he agrees with his master and pays the price of freedom. A mukateb is a slave who has an inscription agreement with his master. A slave becomes a cure when he works and earns and brings the price of freedom to his master. Mukatab is subject to the provisions of the slave, except that his master owns his earnings. He is a slave as long as there is some debt left on his contract. Amr b. Shuayb -his father-came as a merfu with his grandfather's deed. Abu Dawud, Itk, 28/1; Ibn Mace, Itk, 19/3; Shaybani, 857. 2301-) According to Imam-i  Malik, Urve b. ez-Zübeyr  and Süleyman 
b. Yesar used to say: Mukateb is a slave as long as he has the remaining debt from the epitaph. 2302-) Imam-i  Malik says: This is my view. 2303-) Imam-i  Malik says: If Mükateb dies, if he leaves behind more property than the debt remaining from the inscription agreement, if they have children born while they are mukatebe or before, these children will inherit the remaining property after the debt is paid. 
2304-) Humayd b. From Hays al-Makki:  A mukatabi of Ibn al-Mutawakkil  died in Mecca, leaving behind the debts left over from the mukataba agreement, his debts to other people, and his daughter. The ruler of Mecca could not pass judgment on this issue. Abdulmalik b. He wrote a letter to Marwan and asked about the issue. He also wrote the following letter to himself. “Pay the public first. Then pay off the remaining debt from the book contract. then back 
Divide the remainder between his daughter and her master.” 
2305-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, when the slave wants, the master is not obliged to make an inscription agreement, I have not heard that any of the imams forced a man to make a contract with his slave. According to what I heard, a scholar was asked about this issue, and he said: "If you see good in them, make a contract with them." Surah Nur, 33. He added the following two verses to it: "When you come out of Ihram, you can hunt" Surah Maida, 2. "When the prayer is performed, disperse (=you can disperse) and seek from Allah's bounty" Surah Friday, 10. Malik says: This command in the verse (after prohibiting) 
They are orders that Allah has given to people and they are not obligatory on people. In other words, the command capas in the verses mean that I am not a freak. Therefore, the phrase 'make mukataba', which comes with an injunction, expresses permission as 'you can mukatebe', according to this interpretation, 2306-) Imam-i  Malik says: give" 
They say the following about the 33rd commandment of the chapter of Nur: The meaning of this is: A person makes a mukabah agreement with his slave, and then deducts a certain amount from his debt to him. 2307-) Imam-i  Malik says: This is what I heard from the scholars and the people of Medina were doing the same. According to Imam-i  Malik, the deeds of the people of Madinah— because they were in accordance with the Sunnah of the Messenger of Allah—became  one of the proofs. 2308-) Imam-i  Malik says: It was reported to me: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) made a contract with his slave for thirty-five  thousand dirhams. Then he deducted the last five thousand dirhams of his debt. 2309-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, the property of the slave who made a contract with his master belongs to him. If it is not stipulated in the agreement, the child will not be mukatab. 2310-) Yahya heard Imam-i  Malik say about mukatab: If a slave who is pregnant with him and his master make a mukataba agreement, if both of them do not know that the concubine is pregnant while making the agreement, this child will not be included in this agreement, subject to his father. Because the child stays out of this agreement and becomes your master. But the concubine is mukatabin. Because it is his property. 2311-) Imam-i  Malik says about a woman leaving a mukateb inheritance to her son and her husband: In this case, if he dies without paying his debt, his husband and son will divide the inheritance of this slave according to the book of Allah. If he pays his debt and dies, the inheritance of this mukatab will belong to the woman's son. Her husband has no right to this inheritance. 2312-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a mukatab (slave who makes a book contract) makes a mukatab agreement with his slave, it is seen that if he wanted to help his mukatab slave, this agreement is not permissible if it is understood that he gave a discount to his slave. If he has done it so that he can acquire goods, help pay his debts, contribute to it, then the agreement he has made is permissible. 2313-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a master gets together with his mukataba concubine and the concubine becomes pregnant, if the concubine wishes, she will become an ummu parent. If he wishes, he will abide by the agreement. If the concubine is not pregnant, mukataba acts in accordance with the agreement. 2314-) Imam-i  Malik says: One of the two people who are partners in a slave cannot make a mukataba agreement in return for his share in the slave, with or without the permission of his partner. They should make such an agreement together. Because if he pays the debt of the epitaph, which will require the slave to be half freed, this agreement becomes a contract of emancipation. The partner who has made a contract with the slave for his share cannot demand that the entire slave be freed. This is contrary to the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) command: "If a person frees his share in a slave, the slave will be valued fairly on his behalf." This part must be evaluated in order to free the rest of the slave. However, in half of it, an agreement was made and that part was valued by him. Since this valuation hinders the valuation of the rest, it is contrary to the hadith. The remaining part of a value must be freed by giving its own money. However, he receives money from his own shares. Secondly, when one of the partners makes a mukatab agreement, the slave has to work freely and pay his debt. As long as some of them are slaves of another, this is not possible. In our opinion, this is the unanimous verdict. 2315-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the master who made a mukataba agreement on his share does not know that the verdict is like this, and if he learns about the mukatab debt or learns before paying it, he will return the money he received from the mukatab and share this money with his other partner in proportion to their shares in the slave. The book contract is void. The slave remains a slave between the two as before. 2316-) Imam-i  Malik says: If one of the partners postpones his receivables, and the other does not postpone and collects some of his receivables, and if the mukateb dies and leaves a lot of property that is not enough for his debt, the partners will share that property in the amount of their receivables. Each partner receives as much as his own share. If the collateral has left more property than it owes, the partners divide the remainder equally between them after receiving the remaining receivables. If he is incapable of paying his debt, and if the cashier has received more than his other partner, this person will not return the difference that he has received from his partner back to his partner. Because he took what he bought with the permission of his partner. remains between them (again as before) half and half. If one of the partners makes a discount from the mukatab, then the other partner collects some of his debt, but in the future, if he cannot pay his debt, the slave remains as a partner between them. The partner who collects a part of his receivable does not give anything back to the other partner. Because he got his due. The matter is similar to this: two persons have in common a debt from one man. 
One of them postponed his receivables, the other did not defer and collected a part of his receivables. Then the debtor went bankrupt. The partner who collects his receivables does not give anything to the non-collecting  partner from the money he has received. 2317-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, the unanimous decision is as follows: If more than one slave is subject to a mukataba agreement in an agreement, they become guarantors for each other, and no reduction is made from the others with the death of one of them. If one of the mukatab says "I am helpless" and gives up working, the other partners can employ him in the jobs he can afford. In this way, they help to pay off their debts. So much so that when all slaves pay their debts and become emancipated, that slave is also freed. If they do not pay and remain as slaves, he becomes slaves with the others. 2318-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a slave and his master make a contract, in the event that the slave dies or is incapable of paying his debt, the custom among Muslims is not that someone else takes over the debt of the slave. Because if the master takes the debt of a slave to his master from the one who accepts, he will have taken it unjustly. He would not have sold the mukatabi to that person. The property received in return for the debt of the mukatab belongs to the person who gave it. Mukatab will not be freed. Therefore, that property is considered as the property that the master bought in exchange for a slave that he could not free. If he is unable to pay his debt, he returns to his master's property as a slave. Because the book debt is not a fixed debt that can be paid to the master by someone else. Book debt is such a thing that if the mukateb pays it, he will be freed. If the mukateb dies as a debtor, his master does not become a partner to the creditors in exchange for the booklet. In this regard, creditors come before the master. If the slave, who cannot pay his book debt, has other debts, he returns to his master's property as a slave. His debts become fixed in the embezzlement of this slave. Creditors cannot become partners in the master and slave by deducting their receivables against the price of the slave. 2319-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a group of slaves make a single inscription agreement together, if they do not have kinship ties that will inherit each other, these slaves are responsible for each other in payment. All of them remain slaves until they pay the full debt of the book. If some of them are not freed, the others are not, if one of them dies and leaves more goods behind than the other slaves' debts, the debt of those slaves will be paid in full from this property. If there isn't much left, it will belong to his master. Other friends with whom they made a book contract cannot take this surplus. After the other mukatab debts are paid from the deceased's property according to their shares, it is the turn of the master. Because the deceased took the responsibility of paying their debts. It is necessary for them to pay as much as they can freed from the property of the deceased. If the deceased mukateb has a free child who was not born and did not enter into the epitaph agreement, he cannot inherit his father. Because the mukatab was not freed until he died. 2320-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Umm Salama, the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) cut off his relations with her in exchange for gold and silver. (So the mukatabs became free). 
2321-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, the unanimous decision regarding the mutual mukatab between two people is as follows: It is not permissible for one of these partners to cut off the relationship with the mukatab without the consent of the other partner in return for his share. Because, since the slave and his property are common between them, it is not permissible for one of them to take the property of the slave without the permission of the other. If one of the partners cuts his relationship, the other partner does not, then the partner who broke the relationship completes the process of breaking the relationship, if he dies later by leaving mukateb property or is incapable of paying his debt, the partner who broke the relationship could not take from the slave's property, as he could not take the property of the other partner back to his share in the slave. cannot have it again. However, if he has cut off his mukatab relationship with his partner's permission, and if he has become unable to pay his mukateb book debt later, the partner who has cut the relationship can give the money he received in return for severing the relationship and want to have his share in the slave again. If the slave dies by leaving property, the person who maintains the mukataba agreement receives the remaining inscription from the slave's property, and then shares the remaining property with the person who broke the relationship in proportion to their partnership shares. If one of the two partners cuts off his relationship, the other partner continues the agreement, and then the slave becomes unable to pay his debt, it is said to the person who cuts off the relationship: "If you give half of the money you received when you cut your relationship, you will become a partner in half with the slave", and if he does not accept it, The slave becomes your partner who continues the reciprocal agreement. 2322-) Imam-i  Malik says: One of the partners, with the permission of his partner, terminates his relationship from the mukatab, and the other partner receives as much or more in return for the mukatab, and then if the mukatab becomes unable to pay his debts, the mukatab becomes a partner among them. . Because the partner who continues the mukabe agreement has taken his receivables from the mukatab. If the partner who continues the mukabe agreement has received less than the partners who broke the relationship, and then the mukatab becomes unable to pay his debt, if the partner who broke the relationship gives half of the excess money he received to his partner and wants to become a partner in half of the slave, it may be possible, or if he does not, the entire slave becomes the partner who does not break the relationship. If the mukateb dies by inheriting, it can happen if the partner who broke the relationship wants to give him half of his partner's share more than the other partner and become a partner in the inheritance. If the partner who did not break the relationship received as much or more than the partner who broke the relationship, the inheritance is divided between them in proportion to their shares in the slave. Because the partner who does not break the relationship has taken his right. 2323-) Imam-i  Malik says: Two people are partners in a mukatab, one of them cut off half of his share with the permission of his partner, then the partner who did not break the relationship received less money than the partner who broke the relationship. Then he became unable to pay his mukateb book debt. If the partner who cuts off the relationship returns half of what he received in excess of the other partner to his partner, they become half partners with the slave. If he does not want to return this money, the partner who did not break his relationship also gets the share with which his partner has cut his relationship in the mukatab. Malik says: This can be explained as follows: Two people are half partners to a slave. Both partners made a mutual agreement with this slave. Then, one of the partners terminated the relationship with the consent of his partner in half of his share, that is, in one quarter of the remuneration. Then, the mukateb was unable to pay his debt. It is said to the one who cuts off the relationship: "If you want, give back half of what the partner took in excess of what the partner took, and the slave will be a partner among you." 
If he gives, the slave becomes half partner between the two. If he does not, the share of the partner who broke the relationship will be the partner who did not break the relationship. He already owned a side stake in this common slave. However, he would have owned three-quarters  of the slave. A quarter of the slave becomes the one who broke the relationship. Because the partner who broke off the relationship did not agree to pay back a quarter of the slave with whom he broke the relationship. 2324-) Imam-i  Malik says: After a mukatab, his master cuts off his relationship and frees him. In this case, the master cannot receive this receivable together with other creditors. 
Other creditors have priority rights. 2325-) Imam-i  Malik says: A mukatab who owes other people does not have the right to cut off the relationship with the master. When this happens, the slave regains his freedom and may not have any property left. Because creditors have the right to receive their receivables from the master earlier. For this reason, it is not permissible for the mukater to make such an agreement. 2326-) Imam-i  Malik says: A master makes a contract with his slave, then cuts off his relationship in exchange for gold. While doing this, he makes a discount from his mukatebe debt on the condition that he pays in advance the gold he will receive in return for severing his relationship. In our opinion, there is nothing wrong with that. However, there are those who do not like it. Because the master has reduced his mukatab debt to the level of normal debt. Namely: A person is indebted to another person until a certain time. The creditor gave him a discount, and he paid the debt in advance. The debt of the respondent is not like this debt. This is the property that should be given as a result of the agreement to cut off the relationship between them in order to give property to his master in order that the mukatabin may regain his freedom as soon as possible. For this reason, the inheritance, witnessing and hudud (rules) rights of this freed slave become fixed and he obtains the rights of attaining freedom. He can no longer buy dirhams for dirhams and gold for gold. (Cannot treat interest.) This person is like a person who says to his slave: "If you bring me so many dinars, you are free." He gives the slave a discount from the amount he said and says to him: "If you bring me less than this, you are free.” There is no fixed debt in this embezzlement. If it was a fixed debt, in case of death or bankruptcy, they would have participated in the division together with their creditors and divided the property of the mukater together. 2327-) Imam-i  Malik says; The best thing I've heard about the mukatab that injured a person in a way that required paying a diet is this; If the mukatab has the power to pay for this injury, together with the inscription debt, he pays the diet and remains mukatab himself. If he can't afford both, he pays for the wounding. Because he has to pay the diet of the injured person before he pays his book debt. If he is incapable of paying the cost of the wounding, if the master wishes, he can give the price of this wounding, he owns his slave, the slave becomes his property. If he wishes, he can deliver the slave to the wounded. There is no more responsibility on the master than to hand over the slave. 2328-) Imam-i  Malik says: If one of a group of slaves who made a mukataba agreement together inflicts an injury that requires a diet, "pay the price of this wounding to the injured and the other people who are partners in the mukataba agreement." is called. If they pay, they stay mukatab. If they do not pay and become incapacitated, if their master wishes, they will pay for this injury, their mukataba contract will be broken, and they will return to slavery. If he wishes, he will only deliver the injured person to the injured person, and since other mukatebs cannot afford to pay for this injury made by their friends, their agreements are broken and they remain as slaves. 2329-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, the unanimous verdict is as follows: If the mukateb is injured to the extent necessary, or the children of the mukateb who are with him in the mukatab agreement, their diet is equal to the diet of the slaves. Those taken from their diets are paid in return for the receivables of their masters with whom they have made a treaty agreement. The remainder of this debt is deducted from the debt. From the diet of the mukatabin's injury, as much as the master receives, is deducted from his debt. Malik says: The explanation for this is as follows: For example, let the slave make a contract for three thousand dinars, and the compensation for the injury received by his master is a thousand dinars. If Mukateb gives another two thousand dinars to his master, he becomes free. If a thousand dinars remained from the book debt of the mukatabin, and if he received a thousand dinars from his master for the diet of his wound, the slave will be freed. If the diary of the mukatab is more than the debt of the book to his master, the master of the book takes the remaining debt of the book and the freedom of the mukatab is obtained. It is not right to give the diet of his wounds to mukabe, so that he can eat and spend it before the debt of the book is paid. If this slave is incapable of paying his debt, he will return to his master (due to injury) as a slave with one eye or a cut off hand or crippled. 
The master made his agreement only on the property and earnings of the slave, not on the cost of his child and the goods that fell from the diet of his body for his child to eat and spend. However, the diet of the mukatab's own wounds and the diet of the children born during the mukatab period or included in the booklet agreement are given to the master as a deduction for the remaining receivables. 2330-) Imam-i  Malik says: The best thing I've heard about the man who buys a person's mukatab is this: If the master of this mukatab has made a mukatab agreement for dinars or dirhams, he cannot sell it. If he has made a settlement agreement in advance in return for any commercial item (if he has not received the price yet), he can sell it. Because if they have made a loan agreement instead of cash, it would be to sell the debt in exchange for debt, which is prohibited. 2331-) Imam-i  Malik says: If his master makes a cash settlement agreement in return for a commercial property such as camel, cattle, sheep and slave, the customer can buy this mukatabi with gold or silver or an item other than the commercial goods listed above. 2332-) Imam-i  Malik says: The best thing I have heard about Mükateb is this: If Mükateb is to be sold, if he has the power to pay the sale price to his master in cash, it means freeing himself from the buyer who will buy him. Being freed comes first among other duties. If one of the partners who made a mukatab agreement sells half or one third or one fourth of the mukatab or any of its shares in the mukatab, the mukatab does not have the right to benefit from this sold share. Because, by buying this share, he/she  will definitely have made a contract to regain his freedom in that share. Mükateb cannot make this agreement without the consent of the partners. Because the share sold does not gain complete immunity. His property has been confiscated. It is feared that he will not be able to fulfill the requirements of the contractual agreement, since he will be wasted by buying a share of himself. 
Buying one of the shares is not like buying all of them. However, the rest of the contracting lords can buy the sold shares first, if they allow it. 2333-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible to sell one of the installments of the mukatat. Because there is uncertainty in selling installments. If Mükateb is unable to pay his debt, his debt becomes null and void. If Mükateb dies or goes bankrupt while he is in debt to other people, the person who bought the installment can be with them while the creditors receive their receivables in return for his/her  share and get nothing. The person who is one of the installments of the mukatat is in the title of master and if he is the master of the mukatat, he cannot participate in the division of his property with the other creditors of the mukatat in return for his book receivable. Such is the tribute of the master upon his slave. In return for this tribute, the master cannot participate in the division of property with other creditors. 2334-) Imam-i  Malik says: Mukatab means paying the mukateb debt to something different or different from the goods and things written in the book. 
It is permissible to purchase the same goods and goods in cash or on credit, 2335-) Imam-i  Malik says: If Mükateb dies and leaves behind a ummu-el-dollar  concubine and children born by this concubine or another woman, and if they are afraid that they will not be able to work and earn, they will not be able to pay their debts. Whether the umm of their father is the mother of those children or not, if the book is of sufficient value to pay off all of their debts, they are sold, their debts are paid, and they attain their freedom. Because in this case, their fathers could not prevent the ummu child from being sold under these conditions. If the price of the concubine is not enough to pay the debts of the book, and if these concubines and children do not have the strength to work and earn, they will all become slaves to their masters again. 2336-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person buys the bookkeeping debt of the mukatab from his master, and dies before he pays the debt of the mukatab to himself, in our opinion, this person will inherit the slave. If the mukateb is unable to pay his bookkeeping debt to him, the slave becomes that person. If he regains his freedom by paying the mukateb book debt to the person who bought it, his master will be the one who made the booklet agreement. The person who buys his inscription has no right in the guardianship of the slave. 2337-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: A person made an epitaph agreement on behalf of himself and on behalf of his children, and then he died. Urve b. Zübeyr and Süleyman b. Yesar was asked the following question: Will these children try to pay off their father's inscription debt, or have these children become slaves?' And they replied: Yes, they will work to repay the debt of their father's book contract, they will not be given any discount because of their father's death.' 2338-) Imam-i  Malik says: If children are too young to work, they are not expected to grow up and these children become slaves of their father's master. However, if their fathers left enough goods to pay their installments until they are old enough to work, they do not become slaves immediately, they are paid from this property until they can grow and work on their behalf. If they pay their debts when they grow up, they will regain their freedom. If they can't pay, they become slaves. 2339-) Imam-i  Malik says: A mukateb dies and leaves behind a wealth that is not enough for his book debt. 
There is a child and an ummu child, who are partners in this epitaph agreement. Umm veled wants to work on behalf of all of them and pay this money. If the Umm is trusted and has the power to work, this property is given to him. If he is unreliable and does not have the strength to work, this property will not be delivered to him. He and the child become slaves again to the master of the mukatab. 2340-) Faith Malik says: Even if a community that is not related to each other makes a mutual agreement, even if some of them become unable to fulfill their responsibilities and the other part works until all of them regain their freedom, these working people can get the money they paid on behalf of the non­working people in proportion to their shares. Because this community of slaves are guarantors for each other. Shaybani, 
859. 2341-) Rabîa b. Ebî Abdurrahman and others narrate as follows: al-Furâfisa  b. Umayr al-Hanefi  had a mukatabi. He declared that he would pay all of his debt to his master. When al-Furâfisa  did not accept this offer, the mukateb was sent to Marwan b. He went to the referee and explained the situation. Marwan summoned al-Furâfisa  to his presence and told him to accept this offer. He didn't accept either. Thereupon, Marwan ordered the goods to be received and placed in the treasury from the mukatab, and mukatab said: Go. You are free.” Seeing this situation, he took delivery of the goods. 2342-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, it is permissible if the mukatab pays all its installments before the time comes. His master cannot refuse to accept this. Because the slave's payment of his debt removed all conditions or conditions of service or conditions of going on a journey. If some of the reasons for slavery had remained, the slave would not have been completely free, his immunity would not have been completed, his testimony would not be accepted, the inheritance would not be fixed and he would not have been able to do similar works. It is also not right for the master to stipulate any service to the slave after he attains his freedom. 2343-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the mukatab, who is severely ill, does not have a son who participates in the epitaph with him, he can pay all his installments to his master in order to ensure that his free heirs can become heirs to him. Because he is freed by paying all the installments of the mukatat, his testimony is accepted, it is permissible for him to confess his debt to other people and make a will. His master cannot fail to accept the offer to pay all the installments of the mukatabi by saying, "He smuggled his property from me". 2344-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows; One of the two people who were partners in a mukatab freed his shares. 
Muqatab died, leaving a lot of property. Said b. Müseyyeb was asked how the inheritance of this mukatab would be divided. He replied: “The person who continues the book deal will be given the remainder of his debt. Then both partners divide the surplus property equally between them.” 2345-) Imam-i  Malik says: If he makes a mukatab agreement and regains his freedom, on the day of his death, the son of the person who made a mukataba agreement with him or his closest relatives will inherit it. 2346-) Imam-i  Malik says: Every freed slave is similar to this. After this slave was freed and his guardian gave birth to his guardian, he was given to the closest son or asabi of his master, whose inheritance freed him on the day of his death. 
transfers. 2347-) Imam-i  Malik says: There is no difference between siblings and children if they all make a mukatab agreement and if there is no child included in the agreement or born during the agreement. If one of these siblings has a child who is included in the agreement, and then dies leaving property, the debts of all of them will be paid from this property and all of them will regain their freedom. After the debts are paid, the surplus property belongs to the child, not the siblings of the deceased. 2348-) Imam-i  Malik reported: A master made an agreement with his slave in return for gold or silver, and in addition to this, the agreement stipulated that the slave should go on a journey or serve or sacrifice. He also declared their names one by one. Then he was able to pay his installments before the time of mukateb came. Malik says: If he pays all the installments while this condition on the mukatab continues, he will regain his freedom and obtain the rights of a free person completely. It is checked: If the conditions put forward, such as going on an expedition or serving, are related to the person of the respondent, these conditions are dropped and his master does not have the slightest right in this matter. No, if the conditions are sacrifices or material things that must be paid, they are in the amount of gold and silver money and are evaluated and the mukatab pays them to his master with its installments. He cannot regain his freedom until he pays them together with his installments, 2349-) Imam-i  Malik says: A mukatab, which is accepted unanimously, is like a slave freed by his master after ten years of service. If his master dies before ten years, he does the remaining service to his master's debts. And the loss is left to the son or asaba of the person who freed him. 2350-) Imam-i  Malik says: A master said to his reply, "You cannot go on a journey, get married, or leave my homeland without my permission. If you do one of these without my permission, I will terminate your contract, it is not in your master's power to break this agreement. If the mukateb does not comply with one of these prohibitions, his master takes the matter to the judge. However, whether his master has fulfilled these conditions or not, a person does not have the right to marry, travel or leave his master's country without his permission. 
For, if the master made a mukabe agreement with his slave for a hundred dinars, if the slave had a thousand dinars or more, now this slave goes, marries a woman and gives all of his property to her as mahr, and thus, if he is unable to pay his mukabe debt, he becomes a poor slave to his master again. or if he goes on a mukatab expedition but when his installments come due while he is not present, it is neither his right nor his master to wait. However, all this is within the authority of the master. In these matters, the master gives permission to his mutakat, if he wishes, he does not. 2351-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible for a mukatabin to free a slave without the permission of his master. 
If a mukatab frees his slave with the permission of his master, and then regains his freedom, he becomes the guardian of his slave. 
2352-) If Mükatab dies before he attains his freedom, the custody of the freed slave belongs to his master. When he himself is free, first the guardian of his liberated person returns to him. If he dies without paying his debt, or is unable to pay, his free children cannot inherit his guardian. Because their father's right of custody has not been fixed. In any case, this right of guardian will not be fixed until he attains his freedom. 2353-) Imam-i  Malik says: If one of the two people who is a partner to a mukabe gives up his debt and the other does not give up, and then dies leaving mukateb property, the partner who does not give up takes the remaining debt, then they divide his property between them just like the deceased slave. Because what the first partner does is not to free the other party. He just gave up on his debt. 2354-) Imam-i  Malik says: The following issues explain this matter: If a person dies, leaving behind sons and daughters with a mukatab, if one of these children frees his share in the mukatab, this person does not have the right to custody. If the slave had not been mukataba, then the right of vela of the man or woman who freed him would have been fixed. 
If one of these debtors frees his share in the mükatab, and then fails to pay his debt to the mükatab, the person who freed his share will not be charged for the remaining portion that the mükatab did not free. 2355-) If freeing his share in the mukatab, which was inherited, was considered normal freeing, the part of the mukatab that was not emancipated would be evaluated and the freeing person would have paid that portion of his property. As a matter of fact, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "On behalf of the person who frees his share in a slave, the slave is evaluated fairly. (In other words, the slave gets his freedom completely by paying the rest of the slave from his own property). If he has no property, he will have freed only his share”. 2356-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to the custom agreed by the Muslims, the person who freed his share in the mukatab cannot be compelled to be freed by making him pay for the shares that cannot be freed from his property. If he had done so, the guardian of the liberated slave would belong entirely to that person, and the other partners would not have any right to guardianship. 
2357-) Again, according to the practice of Muslims, the vela of the mukatab belongs to the person who made the mukatab agreement. If the women who are the heirs of the mukateb master free their shares in the mukatab, they cannot have the right to the vela of the mukatab. His guardian is only the right of his master's sons and male elders. 
2358-) Imam-i  Malik says: The master cannot free one of a group of slaves included in an epitaph agreement without consulting his other friends and obtaining their consent. If slaves are children, he need not consult them. Malik says: Because the slave who will be freed by the master sometimes works on behalf of all his friends and pays his book debts so that they can attain freedom. The master also chooses and frees the person who will pay the debts of his friends and save them from slavery, which causes the other slaves to be unable to pay their remaining debts. Since the master would have thought only of his own interests with this action, this disposition, which would be against the rest of the mukateb, is not accepted. As a matter of fact, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "(In Islam) there is no harm or harm to anyone." he ordered. What the master wants to do is a great harm. 2359-) Imam-i  Malik says: In the group of slaves with whom a mukataba agreement was made, their masters can free the weak, very old mukatabi and his child, who have never paid their epitaph debt and are unable to pay. 2360-) Imam-i  Malik says: A man made a mukataba agreement with his slave, then died leaving a mukateb reputation as a child, and he left behind a debt that was left over from his epitaph debt and left enough other goods for this debt. If this mukatab is not liberated until he dies, and if they do not have children who can free themselves and therefore their father's ummâdab by paying the remaining inscription debt, the ummâde will remain as a concubine until he dies. 2361-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the mukateb frees his slave or gives some of his property to charity, and if his master does not learn about the savings made by the mukateb until he regains his freedom, this savings made by the mukateb is valid and he has no right to withdraw from it. If his master learns and does not accept or approve of this before he gains his freedom, he is not obliged to free that slave again and to give that alms again when he regains his freedom. But he can do it voluntarily. 2362-) Imam-i  Malik says: The best thing I have heard about mukatab, which his master freed while he was dying, is this: If mukateb is sold, if its value is equal to the mukateb debt, no action will be taken against one third of the deceased master's property. If its value is less than the remaining debt, the difference between them is reduced to one-third  of the master's property. It does not matter how many dirhams or how many dinars the remaining debt is. Because if the mukateb is killed, the murderer only pays the value of the day he was killed. If injured, the injured only pays his diet on the day he was injured. Here, too, it does not matter how many dirhams or how many dinars the mukataba debt is. Because mukateb is considered a slave unless he can finish his book debt. If the bookkeeper's debt is less than its own value, the remaining debt is deducted from one-third  of the deceased master's property. Because his deceased master left his bookkeeping debt to his mukatab, and bequeathed that the remaining epitaph debt from the mukatab not be taken. Malik says: The explanation of this last part is as follows: For example, if the value of the mukatab is a thousand dirhams, even if there is only one hundred dirhams left from the mukataba debt, if the master wills that the remaining hundred dirhams be donated to the mukatab, if these hundred dirhams meet one-third  of his master's property, the mukatab will attain his freedom. 2363-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person makes a mukataba agreement with his slave while he is about to die, he will be valued as a mukatab slave. If one-third  of his master's property covers the price of his slave, this agreement is permissible. Malik says: The explanation for this is as follows: If the slave's value is one thousand dinars and the contract they made when his master died, two hundred dinars and one third of his master's property is a thousand dinars, then this agreement made by the master is valid. This is considered a will made by the master on one-third  of his property. If the master has made bequests to a group, if one third of his property is not more than the value of the mukatab, the bequest is fulfilled starting from the mukatab. Because, reciprocity means to be freed. The act of freeing comes before all wills. Then, since the mukatab will be collected in the bookkeeping debt, the testament holders receive their receivables from the mukatab. If their heirs wish, they can give their debts to the bequested persons in full and debit them. 
If they wish, they can deliver the debtor and the debt to the other willed persons. Because one third of the master's property is mukatab. As a matter of fact, in all bequests made by a person, heirs say: "The deceased bequeathed more than one third of his property, and the bequeath received property that did not belong to him." If they say to the heirs: "Your successor has bequeathed the property that you know. If you wish, give the bequeathed property (with the surplus) as the deceased willed. If you wish, hand over one-third  of the deceased's property to the bequested persons." is called. Malik says: If the heirs hand over the mukatat to the people who were willed, the bookkeeping debt of the mukatat will be paid to them. If Mukatab pays this debt to them, they will receive it in proportion to their shares, as a deduction from the will made to them. If he is incapable of paying his debt, he becomes the slave of the bequeathed, not the heirs. Because the heirs did not receive the mukateb when they were left free, and the people who were bequeathed paid the money for it with what they would have received from the will when the mukateb was handed over to them. For this reason, if the mukateb had died, they would not have received anything from the heirs. If the mukateb dies without paying his debt and leaves behind more property than he owes, this property will belong to the bequested persons. 
When he pays his mukateb debt, he regains his freedom and the vela of those who make a mukataba agreement will become the asaba. Malik says: When his master dies, if he donates a thousand dirhams to his mukata, who owes him ten thousand dirhams, the value of the mukata will be considered while this will is being fulfilled. 2364-) Imam-i  Malik says: Even if the value of the mukatab is a thousand dirhams, the amount donated is 
Since his debt is one-tenth,  the master will be deemed to have donated one-tenth  of the value of the mukatab after his death, and he will have paid one-tenth  of its value, one hundred dirhams, in cash to the mukateb. In the same way, if the master forgives the entire debt of the book, it is considered to have donated the entire value of the mukatab, that is, a thousand dirhams. If he reduces half of his book debt from mukatab, half of its value, which is five hundred dirhams, will be reduced. If the discounted amount is more or less than the above rates, it is calculated on the same basis. In the calculation of one-third  of the deceased's property, these last conditions are taken into account. 2365-) Imam-i  Malik says: If his master owes him ten thousand dirhams when he dies, without stating that it is the first or the last installment, if he makes a discount of one thousand dirhams, a tenth of each installment will be made. 2366-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the master discounts the first or last installments of his mukatab by a thousand dirhams, and if the actual book debt is three thousand dirhams, the mukateb is considered in cash. Then this value is divided into parts. According to the closeness of the maturity and the excess in value to the others, the share corresponding to the value of one thousand dirhams in the first installment is allocated. After that, the second installment, then the third installment. This process continues until the installments are finished. Each one thousand dirham installment has a different value from the other in terms of the duration of the maturity, depending on its location. The longer the term, the less valuable it is. Then, according to this calculation, the amount corresponding to one-third  of the deceased's estate from the slave's value to these installments of one thousand dirhams, more or less according to the difference between them, is applied. 2367-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person bequeaths a quarter of the mukatat to another or frees a quarter of the mukatat, if the man and then the mukatabi die leaving more property than the remaining debt, one fourth of the mukatab will be given to the heirs of the master and one fourth of the mukatat will be given. They are given their receivables in the mukatab, then after the book receivables are paid, they distribute the surplus property among them one-third,  one-fourth  of the mukatab to the person to whom it was willed, and two-thirds  to the heirs. Because even if there is less than the debt of the book, he is considered a slave and the slave is respected and his property is divided 
among the heirs of the master. 2368-) Imam-i  Malik says: If his master frees his mukatab when he dies, but one-third  of the deceased master's property does not reach the price of the slave, then one-third  of the deceased master's property will be free. The debt corresponding to the freeing part is deducted from the book debt. For example, if the debt of the mukabat is five thousand dirhams, its value is two thousand dirhams in cash, and one third of the deceased master's property is a thousand dirhams, half of the mukabat will be released and half of the book debt will be deducted. 2369-) Imam-i  Malik says: During the will of a master: "So-and-so  my slave is free, make a contract with my so-and-so  slave." If he says so, the emancipation will be started before the contract of inscription. 2370-) Imam-i  Malik says: If his concubine, whom he freed after his master's death, gives birth to children after he is deposed, and then he dies before his master dies, then in our opinion, the children of judgment are like him and the same conditions that are fixed for him are also fixed for his children. The death of their mother does not harm the children. When the master, who freed the concubine due to her death, dies, if one-third  of his property is sufficient, the children and their mothers regain their freedom. 2371-) Imam-i  Malik says: The children of mothers are subject to their mothers. If their mother is free, their children born after their emancipation will also be free. Even if their mother was a mudebbera or mukataba or was freed after years, served as a servant, partially freed or pawned or an ummu child, their children are just like them, and they attain their freedom when their mother is freed. By being a slave, they become slaves. 2372-) Imam-i  Malik says: The child of the concubine, whose precautionary contract was made while she was pregnant, is like her mother. This is similar to the case of the master who freed his concubine while she was pregnant without knowing that she was pregnant. Imam-i  Malik says: The verdict on this matter is that the child is subject to his mother, and once his mother is freed, that child also attains his freedom. 2373-) Imam-i  Malik says: Again, if a person like this buys a pregnant concubine, the concubine and the child in her womb become the customer, regardless of whether the customer has stipulated a condition or not. Malik says: It is not permissible for the seller to exclude the child in the womb of the concubine from the sale. Because the child in his mother's womb is capable of disappearing. The seller lowers the price of the concubine and does not know whether she will be able to have the child. This is like selling the fetus in its mother's womb, which is not permissible. Because it is not clear what will happen to this fetus. 
2374-) If a mukatab or a mudebber person buys a concubine and has relations with this concubine, and the concubine becomes pregnant and gives birth to him, Imam-i  Malik says: The child of one of them, born by his concubine, is like him, and with the liberation of their father, they attain freedom, they become slaves. If they remain, they will remain slaves. Malik says; If the slave regains his freedom while his ummu parent is his own property, his ummu parent will be handed over to him. 2375-) Imam-i  Malik 
says to his mudebber master: "Free me immediately. In return, I will give you fifty dinars in installments.” says. Even if his master said to him, "Okay, you are free and you owe me fifty dinars, and you pay me ten dinars every year", if the slave accepts this and the master dies a day or two or three after that, the slave will be freed and fifty dinars will be granted. He gets into debt, it is permissible to testify, he gains the rights of a free person, the inheritance provisions and penal provisions are fully fixed for them. No deduction is made from his debt due to the death of his master. 2376-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person frees his slave due to his death, and the property is ready and to be collected. 
He dies leaving his possessions, and his possessions are not in sufficient quantity to completely set him free. In this case, the liberation process of the deceased together with his property is stopped. The lord's receivables are added up and thus the amount of the lord's uncollected property is revealed. If his master's property and his receivables meet one-third  of the slave's value, the detainee will attain his freedom. If one-third  of these goods cannot meet the entire value of the mudebber, the portion corresponding to one-third  of the mudebber's property will be free. 
His property is also left in his hands. 2377-) 
Imam-i  Malik says: The unanimous decree is as follows. If the master makes a will during his illness or while he is alive and frees the slave in this will, he can revoke or change his will at any time, unless this will is a death-related  release. If he has willed to free himself due to his death, there is no way to go back. 2378-) Imam-i  Malik says: Even if her master wills to free the concubine who gives birth to children, if she does not make a precautionary agreement, once this concubine is freed, her children will not be able to attain their freedom, either. Because if his master wishes, he can change his will, and he can turn away from him whenever he wants. The concubine also does not regain her freedom. This concubine is similar to the concubine in this example. It is as follows: The master says to his concubine, "If my concubine stays with me until I die, she will be free", and if the concubine stays with her master until her master dies, she will be free. Malik says: If the master wishes, he can sell the concubine and his children before. Children cannot be free with their mothers. Because the master did not include his children in the conditions he said about their mother. 2379-) Imam-i  Malik says: There is a difference between making a will to emancipate and emancipation due to death. Past applications have separated them. Malik says: If every testament was like emancipation due to death, all testators would not have the opportunity to change their wills that they have made, and other wills that include freeing slaves. At the same time, he would have imprisoned his property in a place where he could not use it. 2380-) Imam-i  Malik says: Let's say a man freed all of his slaves due to death while he was alive, and he has no property other than the slaves he freed. If this person emancipated some of them before the other part, not all at once, after the death of the master, the emancipation begins with those who first made a precautionary agreement. 
Then it's the turn of the next ones. This continues until the price of the emancipated reaches one-third  of their property. If the master frees all his slaves in a sentence by saying, "If I die of this disease, my slave is free, my slave is free" in a sentence, or if he freed them all in a word rather than a sentence, they divide one-third  of the master's property among them. None of these have priority. Since this saving of the master is a testament, one third of his property belongs to the slaves and is divided among them according to their shares. Then, one third of this property falls on every slave, the more freedom he regains. Malik says: If all of this happens during the master's illness, none of the slaves have priority. 2381-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man frees a slave who has property due to his death, but dies without leaving any property other than the living slave, one third of the deceased will be freed and the slave's property will be left to him. 
2382-) Imam-i  Malik says: If his master makes a mukataba agreement with his slave, and if he does not leave any property other than this slave after his death, one third of the slave will be freed and one third of his mukataba debt will be deducted. Two-thirds  of it remains as a debt on the embezzlement. 2383-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man frees half or all of his slave while he is sick, and if he has freed another slave due to death before that, the deceased master will be freed before the slave he freed while he was sick. Because he cannot refuse this saving and cannot do anything that requires rejecting it. If the remaining one-third  of the master's property is not sufficient to free half of the slave after the mudebber attains his freedom, the slave becomes free in proportion to the increasing amount of money. 
2384-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar freed his two concubines due to his death. He used to have sexual relations with his concubines while he was alive. 2385-) Yahya b. Said, Said b. It was narrated that al-Museyyeb  said: "If a man frees his concubine due to her death, he can have sexual intercourse with his mudebbera concubine. He has no right to sell this concubine or donate it to anyone. The children of the mudebber concubine are like her by default.” 2386-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our alliance, the fendi cannot sell a dead slave and change his status. If he is heavily indebted later, his creditors cannot sell the deceased as long as his master is alive. If the master dies without debt, a third of the mudebber becomes free. For as long as the master lives, the slave will work. The master does not have the right to have the slave serve throughout his life and then free that slave even though he has no other property against the heirs. If he dies even though he has no property other than the mudebber, one third of the mudebber will be free. Two thirds belong to the heirs. If the master dies by leaving a debt of enough money to cover the value of the deceased, the deceased is sold for the debt. Because there would be a mandate for one third of the property of the deceased master, which is also absent. Malik says: If the master's debt covers the half value of the mudebber, half of the mudebber is sold in return for the debt, the debt is paid, and the slave gets his freedom at the rate of one third of the remaining amount after the debt is paid. 
2387-) Imam-i  Malik says: Just as it is not permissible to sell a mudebber, it is also not permissible for someone to buy it. It is permissible only if the mudebber buys himself from his master. In addition, it is permissible if someone gives property to the master of the mudebber, and if the freed person frees the mudebber due to his death, it is permissible. Malik says: The vela of the mudebber belongs to the master who freed him due to his death. 2388-) Imam-i  Malik says: It is not permissible to sell the services of a mudebber. Because the amount of this service is unknown. It is not known how long his master will live. For this reason, it is not considered correct as it will be a sale for something whose sales amount is not certain. 2389-) Imam-i Malik says: If one of the two people who are partners in a slave frees his share due to his death, both of them value the slave. If the freeing person buys the slave, the entire slave will be taken into custody. If he does not buy it, his contract will be invalidated due to his death. However, if the other partner pays the value of the slave to the partner who freed his share due to his death, the contract of injunction is not broken and the partner who pays his share to the partner who made this contract becomes the beneficiary. 2390-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a Christian man frees a Christian slave due to his death and this slave later becomes a Muslim, the slave and his master will be separated from each other and the slave will be saved from the Christian master. The slave is not sold until the situation of his master is clarified. If the Christian master dies as a debtor, he is sold for life. The debt is paid out of his money. However, if the deceased Christian master has enough to meet his debt, the deed is not sold. The debt is paid from that property, and the detainee is free. 2391-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Umar b. Abdulaziz ruled as follows about the mudebber who injured someone: The master delivers the service of the slave to the injured person. He makes the wounded detainee serve him and makes him pay the debt, which is the diet of his injury, as a punishment. If the decedent pays his debt before his master dies, he becomes his master's slave again. 2392-) Imam-i  Malik says: If our unanimous decree injures a person in custody and then his master dies and his master has no property other than the deceased, one-third  of the deceased becomes free. The wounding diet is divided into three. One-third  of the diet must be paid by the slave, one-third  free. Two-thirds  of the diet must be paid by the debtor who owns two-thirds  of the slave. If their heirs want, they can give their part of the slave to the wounded. If they wish, they can give two-thirds  of the diet to the wounded and own their shares in the dead slave. Because the murder of this diet was committed by the slave and is not his master's debt. Murder committed by the mudebber does not invalidate the man's release and injunction. If the master who committed the murder has a debt, the deceased's diet and the part that meets the debt of the master are sold. From this money, first the diet and then the master's debt is paid. After the diet and debt are paid, the unsold portion of the mudebbar is looked at. One third of this portion will be free. The remaining two-thirds  are left to the heirs. Because the diet of the murder committed by the mudebber comes before the debt of the master. For, if a man dies and leaves a dead slave behind, and the value of this mudebber is one hundred and fifty dinars, and the same slave wounds a free man to the bone, the cost of this murder is fifty dinars, and the master of the deceased also owes fifty dinars, the first of the deceased's money is fifty dinars, which is the murder's diet. . Then the fifty dinar debt of the master is paid. Then the remaining unsold portion of the mudebbar is looked at and paying the diet is more important than paying the lord's debt, since it is obligatory on one third of it. The master's payment of his debt is more important than the precautionary contract, which means that the master will bequeath one third of his property. It is not permissible to fulfill the requirements of the precautionary agreement when the master of the mudebber has an unpaid debt. Because the precautionary contract is a testament. Almighty Allah (celle celâlüh) says, "(The mentioned division of inheritance is after the deceased) fulfills his will and pays his debt" Nisa, 12. Malik says: If one-third  of the deceased's property is not enough for the entire deceased person to be freed, the deceased will attain his freedom. The diet of his murder becomes a debt on him. Even if the diet is a complete diet, this debt is requested from him after he attains the right to freedom. If the master of the mudebber has no debt, this is the ruling. 2393-) Imam-i  Malik says: "If a deceased man injures a man and his master delivers him to the injured person, then his master dies in debt and he has no property other than that of the slave, even if the heirs say: "We delivered him to the injured person," the creditor also says: " If he says, "I will give more", if the creditor gives a little more than the diet, it is his right to take the mudebbar rather than the injured person. In return for this right, more than the diet is deducted from the debtor's debt. If the creditor does not pay more than the diet, he cannot take the mudebbar. 2394-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a mudebber who has property injures someone, and his master does not want to give the money to the injured person, he takes the property of the deceased in return for the price of his wounded wound. If the property of the deceased is sufficient to pay the diet, the injured person takes this property and returns the deceased to his master. If the property of the mudebber is not enough to pay the diet, he takes that property in return for the cost of his wound and makes the mudebber serve in exchange for the diet whose value remains. 
2395-) Imam-i  Malik says about the ummu-elad  who injures someone: The cost of this injury is paid from the property of the concubine's master. However, if the cost of this injury is more than the value of the umm, the master is not obliged to pay more than its value. Because if the master of the slave or concubine delivers them for the price of the murder committed by one of them, even if the diet is more, the master will not pay more. 
it is not obligatory. If the master cannot surrender his umm-child  due to the practices in the past, it will be as if he surrendered himself by giving his value. You don't have to pay more than these. this is the most beautiful. The master does not pay more than the value of the Umm child. 
2396-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): "The Jews came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and informed them that a man and a woman among them had committed adultery. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked them: "What is the punishment for stoning in the Torah?" When he was asked, they said, "We will disgrace those who commit adultery by beating them." Hearing this, Abdullah b. Selam said, "You are lying, there is a penalty for stoning in the Torah." They immediately brought the Torah and opened it. When someone put his hand on the verse of stoning and began to read the beginning and the end, Abdullah b. Salam said to him: "Raise your hand." When he raised his hand, the verse of stoning appeared. Thereupon, when the Jews said, "It is true, Muhammad, there is a verse of stoning in the Torah", the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered those who committed adultery to be stoning, and they were stoning. The reason why the Jews came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) even though they knew the penalty for adultery according to their own religion: "We should go to this prophet, because his judgments are usually light. If he gives another punishment for adultery other than stoning, let's accept it. In the sight of Allah, we save ourselves, as this is also the judgment of the prophet.” they said. Did the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) judge Jewish men and women who were sentenced to stoning for committing adultery with his own books, or did he judge according to the religion of Islam? It has been said on this subject: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ruled them with his own books. This was in the early years of the Messenger of Allah's migration to Medina. In order to be punished by stoning, which means killing by stoning in Islam, the adulterer must be muhsan. Conditions of being Muhsan: Adulthood, freedom, reason and union in a sound marriage. There is an alliance of four sects in this. As for being a Muslim, it is disputed. Malikis and Hanafis accepted the conditions of being muhsan in Islam. That's why the Messenger of Allah punished the Jewish man and woman who committed adultery according to the rules of their own books. According to Shafiis and Hanbalis, Islam is not a condition of being muhsan. The hadith, which is our subject, is their proof. In order for those who commit the act of adultery to be punished by stoning, the crime must be proven either by the testimony of four male witnesses or by the confession of the offender four times in four separate sessions. Umar (radiyallahu anh) says: I saw the man who was stoning, he was bending over the woman to protect him from the stones thrown.» Bukhari, Hudud, 86/37; Muslim, Hudud, 29/6, no:26; Shafii, Risale, no:692; Shaybani, 694. 
2397-) Said b. From Musayyeb: When a man from the Eÿlem tribe came to Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu  anh) and said, "This disgraceful man has committed adultery (about himself)", Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said, "Did you tell this to anyone other than me?" When the man said "No", Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) said: "Repent to Allah and cover yourself with his cloth. (Do not reveal to others your sin and guilt that is hidden between you and Allah). Because Allah accepts the repentance of His servants.” said. The man's conscience did not give him peace, but Umar b. He came to Khattab (radiyallahu anh) and Abu He told him what he told Bekir (radiyallahu anh). When Umar (radiyallahu anh) answered like Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh), his conscience did not give him any rest, he came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: "This despicable slave committed adultery." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) turned his face away from him three times (by not answering), (the man always came to the side where the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) turned his face and repeats the same thing), and the Messenger of Allah turned his face away from him every time. When the man persisted, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent a message to his house: "Is this a disease or is he insane?" she asked. They said, "No, he is sane and healthy." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Is he single or married?" she asked. When they said: "She is married, O Messenger of Allah," the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered, and the man was stoning. It is mursal with the alliance of Malik's narrators. He is better than Abu Hurayra in Sahihayn. Bukhari Hudud, 86/22; Muslim, Hudud, 29/5, no:16; Seybani, 700 2398-) Said b. From Musayyeb: It was reported to me: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to a person named Hezzal from the Eÿlem tribe: Hezzal! It would be better for you if you had covered it with your clothes (if you had kept it secret).” he commanded. Maiz b. Hezzal, who is the owner of the concubine with whom Malik committed adultery, is the person who sent Maiz to the Prophet to confess his crime. (Abu Davud, K. 37, B. 6; Ahmed b. 
Hanbal, Musnad, V/217).  (in the document of the hadith) Yahya b. Said says: When I narrated this hadith in an assembly in which Yazid, son of Nuaym, son of Hezzal from the Eÿlem tribe was present, Yazid said: He is my grandfather and this hadith is also true. Abu Dnvud (Hudud, 37/7) narrated it as authentic. See also Shaybani, 701. 2399-) Ibn Shihab reported: "A man confessed to committing adultery at the time of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) and made four testimonies against himself. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered that he be stoning. The sentence was executed.” Shihab: "This is why a person is held responsible for his confession against himself." He said, It is Mursel. Bukhari and Muslim also reported: Bukhari, Hudud, 86/22; Muslim, Hudud, 29/5, no:16; Shaybani, 697. 
2400-) Abdullah b. From Abi Mulayke: A pregnant woman came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and committed adultery. 
He admitted that he did. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Go until you give birth. When the woman gave birth and came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), she said: Go and breastfeed the child (until weaned). When the woman weaned the child and came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), she said: "Go and leave the child with someone who will take care of it." When the woman left the child with someone, the Messenger of Allah decreed that she should be stoning, and the woman was stoned to death. Muslim, Hudud, 29/5, no: 23. Narrated from Burayda. See also Shaybani, 696. According to Islam, no one can be held responsible for the other's crimes. Islam declared the principle of individuality of crime, which has recently been adopted by the western legal system, which is described as modern, fourteen centuries ago. We see the human side of Islamic law in the incident. Bee has polluted herself, what's wrong with the baby in her belly? He must be rescued and reintegrated into society as a good individual. This is the purpose of our Holy Prophet before punishing the mother. 2401-) Abu Huraira and Zayd b. Khalid al-Juhani  narrated: Two men presented their case to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). One of them said: Messenger of Allah, judge between us by the book of Allah. The other, who is more understanding than him: Yes, O Messenger of Allah! Judge between us by the Book of Allah and allow me to speak. When Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Speak”, the man said: My son was a worker (=asifa) next to him. He committed adultery with his wife. When this adversary informed me that my son's punishment was to be stoned to death, I saved my son by giving a hundred sheep and a concubine. Then I asked those who knew about it. They: His son's punishment is one year's exile with a hundred lashes. They issued a fatwa saying that the punishment of this man's wife is stoning. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I swear by Allah, with whom I live by His power and will, that I will certainly judge between you by the Book of Allah: However, there is no exile or punishment in the Qur'an. For this reason, it has been said that either this recitation of the decree in the Qur'an has been abrogated, or what is meant by the book of God is the decree of God. Your concubine and your sheep will be returned to you, and your son will be exiled for one year with a hundred lashes.” He sentenced his son to one year exile with one hundred lashes. He ordered Unays to go to the other man's wife and to stoning him if he confessed. When the woman confessed to her crime, he stoning her. Bukhari, Eyman, 83/3; Muslim, Hudud, 29/5, no:25; Shaybani, 695. The penalty of one hundred lashes is fixed in the second verse of Surah Nur, which means: "Fit a hundred lashes to each of the adulterous woman and the adulterous man. If you believe in Allah and the Last Day, do not let your mercy prevent you from applying Allah's religion to them. Let a group of believers witness their punishment.” For the punishment of one hundred lashes to be given, the adulterer must be single and the crime must be proven by either four witnesses or four confessions. Since the man was single and confessed to his crime, he was given this punishment. As for the situation of the woman, it was said that Üneys was sent to investigate her crime. However, the crime of adultery is not investigated. On the contrary, even if he confesses himself, he is suggested to renege on this confession, as in the case of Maiz. For this reason, in order to clear up the obscurity in the hadith, it was said that the boy's father said, "My son committed adultery with his wife." He said that this statement is not accusing the woman of adultery. If the woman denies it and the man cannot prove it, the man is punished for slandering chastity. (The Messenger of Allah sent a man to the woman to determine this issue. (Bezlü'l-Mechüd,  vol. 17, p. 404). As for the one-year  exile, the issue is controversial among the sects. According to Malikis, a single man who commits adultery is sentenced to one year of exile after the hudud is applied. It is not given to a woman because she will not be able to protect and defend herself and will cause mischief. According to Shafiis, it is given to both. According to Hanafis, it is not given to anyone. However, if it is beneficial to give the penalty of exile, it can be given by tazir (see Al-Jazîrî,  Kitabül-Fiqh  allel-Mezahibi'l-erbaa  v.5, p. 64). Malik says: "Asif" in the hadith means a person who works for wages. 2402-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): «Sa'd b. Ubade said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "What do you say, when I catch my wife with a foreign man, should I give her time until I bring four witnesses?" He said, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Yes." Muslim, Lian, 19/14. A person who sees his wife committing adultery with a foreign man either punishes them with his own hands, which leads to anarchy and turmoil. Therefore, the Messenger of Allah did not order such a course to be taken, or he would bring it to justice. In this case, according to Islam, the crime must be determined with four male witnesses. The hadith is proof that this should be done. But if someone has been raped by force, then if he has the opportunity to seek help from the state forces and other Muslims, he asks for help. Otherwise, he is in legitimate defense. Neutralizes the intruder. 2403-) Abdullah b. From Abbas (radiyallahu anh): «Umar b. I heard Khattab (radiyallahu anh) said: In Allah's book, there is a penalty for stoning to death for a man or woman who is married and commits adultery and whose crimes are proven by evidence or pregnancy or confession.» It is the summary of a long sermon of Omar. He gave this sermon towards the end of his life. Although Hazrat Umar says that there is a penalty for stoning in the Qur'an, this penalty is fixed by hadiths, not verses. According to the majority, a pregnant woman without a husband is not punished for adultery. In order to be punished, the crime must be proven either by four male witnesses or by his own confession four times. Hadrat Umar and Imam-i  Malik say: If it is determined that the woman is not married and that she has not committed adultery with him, the punishment of adultery will be given. (See Sehârenfurî Bezlü'l-Mechûd,  vol.17, p.372). 2404-) From Abu Vakid al-Leysi:  Ömer b. While Khattab (radiyallahu anh) was in Damascus, a man came to his wife and 
He said he saw a strange man next to him. Thereupon, Umar (radiyallahu anh) sent me to the man's wife to inquire about this matter. I came to the woman. There were some women with him. She told him that her husband Umar b. I informed Khattab what she had told and that she could not be punished with her husband's words, and I made some suggestions not to take the blame on her. But the woman refused to return from her crime and resisted confessing. Thereupon, Hazrat Umar gave an order and the woman was stoned. 
2405-) Yahya b. From Said: Said b. I heard Musayyeb. He said: 'Umar b. Khattab went to Mina. He roared his camel in a sandy place. Then he made a pile of sand. He lay down with his cloak spread over him. Then he raised his hands to the sky and prayed: “O my God! I have grown old, I have weakened, my country (the borders of Islam) has expanded. Take my soul without committing any wrongdoing, by doing too much injustice," he said. In this incident, we clearly see what kind of administrative responsibility the head of state, Hazrat Umar, had. When he came to Madinah, he addressed people as follows: people! Sunnahs and fards have been reported to you. You were left on the straight path of Islam. Only if you mislead people from the right path (I won't get involved in it).» Then, hitting one of his hands with the other, he continued as follows: “Beware of being destroyed by denying the verse of stoning (whose recitation is abrogated) just because we cannot find the decree of stoning in Allah's book. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) executed stoning. Messenger of Allah; He punished Mâiz with stoning to a woman from the Gamidiyya tribe, a Jewish man and a Jewish woman. we also recmet. If people had not said, 'Umar did more in Allah's book', I would have written the verse: 'If a married man and a married woman commit adultery, you certainly did not punish them' (in the Qur'an). Because we read it (at the time of the Messenger of Allah). Malik says: Said b. Müseyyeb: "Hazrat Umar was martyred before the month of Dhu al-Hijjah."  The recitation of the part that Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said he read at the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was abolished, that is, its wording in the Qur'an was abolished by Allah, but its ruling was abolished. has been left fixed. As we have stated before, the penalty of stoning is fixed by the sunnah, the words and practices of our Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). he said. Malik says: "The words ash-Sheikh  and al-Sheikha (in the verse of stoning whose recitation is abrogated) mean a married man and a married woman. Shaybani, 693. 2406-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Osman b. A woman who had been married for six months and gave birth (on the grounds that she may have committed adultery) was brought to Affan. When Hazrat Uthman ordered the woman to be stoned to death, Ali b. Abi Talib: It doesn't have to be stoning. Because in the book of Allah: «The period from conception to the mother's womb and weaning is thirty months» Ahkâf, mothers who want to complete the 15-year  period breastfeed their children for two full years.» 
Baccarat commands 233. Then the pregnancy may be six months. A woman does not need to be stoned. Thereupon, Osman b. Affan sent a messenger after her. But he found the woman stoned. 2407-) When Imam-i  Malik asked Ibn Shihab about the situation of those (homosexuals) who did as the tribe of Lut did, he said: "Muhsan or not, he should be stoning." The conditions of being a Muhsan are puberty, freedom, intellect and union in a sound marriage, as we have noted before, and being Muslim according to Malikis and Hanafis. According to Shafiis and Hanbalis, it is not necessary to be a Muslim. Here, when Ibn Shihab was asked about the punishment to be given to homosexuals, he said kill them. The issue is disputed among jurists. According to Maliki, Hanbali and Shafi'i in a narration, those who commit this act are sentenced to death by stoning. Being married and single does not affect the punishment. According to another narration from Imam Shafii, Imam Muhammad and Abu Yusuf, who are Hanafis, those who commit this act are punished just like the punishment for adultery. According to Abu Hanifa, the judge may impose a tazir punishment, and if the act recurs, then he may impose the death penalty. (See. Jaziri, al-Fiqh  allel-Mezahibi'l-Erba'a,  vol. 5, p. 140, 141). Lotism (homosexuality), which means the satisfaction of a man's lust with a man, is seen as normal by westerners today, but it is also considered normal by westerners. It is the work of a filthy pleasure and lust that is incompatible with humanity and the lofty purpose of man's 
creation. It is one of the greatest of indecency and sin. For this reason, it is reported in the Qur'an that Lot (pbuh) addressed his people who committed this indecency as follows: "Are you committing an immorality that none of the nations that came before you did? Because you leave women and lustfully approach men. 
It turns out that you were a people who transgressed." (Purgatory: 80-81). 2408-) Zayd b. From Eslem: "When a man confessed to committing adultery in the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), the Messenger of Allah asked for a whip. When a broken whip was brought to him immediately, he said: "A stronger one". This time, when a new stick, the knots of which was not cut, was brought, he said: "A little bit smaller." This time, when a smooth and bendable whip was brought with the knots cut off, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered it, and the man was whipped. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: O people! The time has come to turn away from the punishments ordained by Allah. Whoever commits one of these ugly things should not reveal it, let it be hidden with repentance and Allah's forgiveness. For, whoever reveals what should be hidden, we will apply Allah's book (judgment) to himself" Shaybani, 698. 
2409-) Abu Ubayd's daughter Safiyya told the following: A single man was brought to Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) who committed adultery with a single concubine and impregnated her, and then confessed his guilt. One hundred lashes were struck and he was exiled to Fedek, a town located two days from Madinah. 2410-) Imam-i  Malik says: The one who confesses that he has committed adultery and then turns away from 
this confession and says that I did not commit adultery. 
anyone's confession is accepted. He is not punished for adultery. Because this had (punishment) is the right of Allah. The 
punishment is applied by one of two things: 2411-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to the scholars I grew up with, slaves who 
commit adultery are not exiled. Shaybani, 699. 
2412-) Abu Huraira and Zayd b. From Khalid al-Juheni  (radiyallahu anh): "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked what 
punishment would be given if an unmarried concubine commits adultery, she said: whip her if she does. If he commits adultery again, 
whip him again. Then if he commits adultery again, whip him again. Then we can sell it even if it is for a knitted rope (=dafir). Bukhari, 
Buyu, 34/66; Muslim, Hudud, 29/6, no:33. Shihab said, "I do not know whether the Messenger of Allah ordered to buy after the third or 
after the fourth." Malik said: The word dafir in the hadith means rope (habl). 

2413-) From Nafi: A slave was guarding the captured concubines. He forced one of them into adultery with her. Umar b. Khattab flogged 
the slave and sentenced him to exile, but did not flog the concubine. Because the slave forced himself. According to Hanafi, Shafi'i and 
Hanbalis, if one turns back from confession, as in Malikis, this return is accepted and hadd (adultery punishment) is not applied to them. 

2414-) From Abdullah, son of Ayyas, son of Abu Rabia, who was a member of Mahzum tribe: Ömer b. Khattab ordered me and 
the youth of Quraysh. Among the concubines taken prisoner by the state, we gave fifty lashes to those who committed adultery. 
Shaybani, 704. 2415-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the husbandless woman who is pregnant says: "I was forced to commit adultery or I got 

married," she would say that she was married or forced, or that she had blood if she was single, or that she was in this state or situation 
when she asked for help and came to her aid. If he cannot provide evidence that there are similar reasons that caused him to fall, his 
word is not respected and the penalty of adultery is applied to him. According to the Imams of other madhhabs, we have previously noted 
that a pregnant husbandless woman cannot be punished for adultery unless it is proven by witnesses or confession. 2416-) Imam-i  Malik 
says: A woman who is forced to commit adultery does not marry unless she is cleansed with three menstrual cycles. If she has doubts in 
her menstruation, she cannot marry until she gets rid of this doubt and clears herself. According to Hanafi and Shafiis, she can marry the 
man with whom she committed adultery immediately, without having three menstrual periods. 

2417-) From Ebu'z-Zinad:  Ömer b. Abdulaziz struck a slave with eighty lashes for slandering chastity. says: Abdullah b. amir b. I asked Rabia about it. He replied: I am Umar b. Khattab, Osman b. I caught up with Affan and the caliphs after them. I have not seen any of them hit the slave more than forty lashes for the crime of defamation of chastity. Shaybani, 706. 
2418-) Zureyk b. From Hakim al-Eylî:  A man named Misbah asked his son for help. His son is a little late. When he came, his father said: O adulterer. Zureyk says: Then his son (for the crime of slandering his chastity) complained about his father to me: When I wanted to whip his father, Zureyk knew that anyone who accused his son of adultery should be punished with Hadd-i  kazf = slander for chastity. As a matter of fact, this is the view of Imam-i  Malik. According to Abu Hanifa and Imam Shafii, this punishment is not applied to a father who accuses his son of adultery. His son said: By God, if you whip my father, I will confess that I committed adultery. When his son said that, the business got completely confused, I couldn't get out of it. Umar b. I wrote to Abdulaziz. He replied to me: Accept your son's forgiveness. says: Umar b. Again, what would you say to Abdulaziz: Or about a person whose parents are accused of adultery and one or both of his parents die?' when he wrote, he replied: if he forgives the slander about himself, accept his pardon. If both or one of his parents are slandered, then judge with the book of Allah (strike eighty lashes). But if he wants to hide the slandered matter, don't punish him." 
2419-) Yahya says: I heard Malik say: If the person who has been slandered is afraid that there will be evidence against him when the issue arises, but forgives him, this is permissible. 2420-) Urwa reported that his father said: "He who slanders the chastity of a community, only a penalty is imposed." Malik says: Even if the people who are slandered on the charge of adultery are found separately, not collectively, a penalty is still applied. According to Hanafis, the situation is the same. 2421-) From Abdurrahman's daughter Amre: Ömer b. At the time of Khattab, the two men cursed each other. One of them said to the other: By Allah, neither my father nor my mother committed adultery.” said. Thereupon, Umar b. When Khattab consulted with the Companions to see if it is a slander on chastity or not, someone said: The man praised his mother and father with this. Another: Praising his mother and father could be otherwise (saying this during a fight is teasing his opponent's parents' chastity). You must apply hadd-i  qazf (the punishment of slander to chastity) to him.» When he said that, Omar (radiyallahu anh) gave him eighty lashes. 2422-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the punishment is only to deny a father with a fixed lineage, saying, "You are not your father's son," Then he will accuse his mother of adultery. or by attributing adultery or expressing them by way of tariq. Those who say these things should be punished with full punishment (eighty lashes). By saying, "You are not your father's son," then he will accuse his mother of adultery. 2423-) Imam-i  Malik says: If we man denies the other's father, the punishment of qazf is required, the denied mother is a slave. 
According to the Shaybani, 708th and Shafii sect, a hadd is not required due to slander made through tariq. However, the judge imposes a penalty of ta'zir (decision) that he deems appropriate. 2424-) Imam-i  Malik says: If someone approaches a concubine with whom he is a partner, he will not be punished for adultery. When the concubine becomes pregnant, her price is appreciated and the shares of the partners are given. The concubine becomes her own. The child to be born is also related to this. 2425-) Imam-i  Malik says: If one of them makes his concubine halal to the other, and he approaches the concubine, the price of the concubine will be determined on the day she gets pregnant, whether she gets pregnant or not (the concubine will be his own). If she is pregnant, she becomes the father of the child. The limit is also not applied. 2426-) Imam-i  Malik says: If someone has intercourse with his son's or daughter's concubine, hadd (adultery punishment) will not be applied to him whether he is pregnant or not. The value of the concubine is appreciated and given to her in return for this value. 
2427-) From Rabia, son of Abu Abdurrahman: A man took his wife's concubine with him on a journey and had intercourse with her. His wife was jealous. Umar b. He complained to Khattab. When Umar (radiyallahu anh) questioned the man, he said: My wife donated the concubine to me. Upon this, Omar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said, “You can either bring me evidence or I will stoning you”, and his wife confessed that she had forgiven the concubine to her husband. 2428-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cut the hand of the thief who stole the shield worth three dirhams" Shaybani 686. According to Hanafis based on some other hadiths, the amount of the stolen property must be at least ten in order for the thief to be sentenced to amputation. It should be worth one dirham silver or one dinar gold. According to Imam Shafii, it is a quarter dinar. 2429-) From Abdullah al-Makki,  son of Abdurrahman, son of Abu Huseyn: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) “Hands are not cut off because of the theft of the fruit on the tree and the grazing animal on the mountain. However, if the animal in the barn and the fruit that has been laid on the exhibition area to be dried are stolen and its value reaches the price of the shield (three dirhams), then the hand is cut off”. Abu Omar says: The narrators of Muwatta did not differ in the fact that it was mursal. Abdullah b. Manaca is muttasable with the hadiths narrated by Ainr and others. Nesai (Katu's-Sank,  46/11,12), Amr b. It is narrated from Shuayb. See also ÿeybanî, 683. In order for the penalty to be cut off due to stolen property, the property must either be in a safe place or be protected. 
2430-) From Abdurrahman's daughter Amre: A thief stole oranges during the time of Hazrat Osman (radiyallahu anh). Hazrat Uthman ordered that a price be given to it. When three dirhams were appreciated, he cut off the thief's hand. At that time twelve dirhams equaled one dinar. 2431-) Hadrat Aisha, the wife of our Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), said from our mother: "It didn't take long for me to forget (the provisions): The property stolen while cutting the hand must be at least a quarter dinar (three dirhams)." Zurkani says: It is understood that this hadith is merfu, even if it is apparent; so kavi! Although it seems like the word of Hadrat Aisha herself, this opinion belongs to the Prophet. Bukhari and Muslim narrated by Ibn Shihab with the Urwa-Aisha  deed: Bukhari, Hudud, 86/13; Muslim, Hudud, 29/1, no:1-4. and according to Shafiis, no hand is cut off for eating the fruit on the tree. According to the Malikis, the hand of the person who takes the fruit of the tree in the reserved place is cut off. 
2432-) From Amre, daughter of Abdurrahman: Hadrat Aisha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), went to Mecca with the slave of her brother Abdullah's sons and his two freed concubines. From there, he sent his freed concubines a cardigan made of patterned precious fabric and doubled with green fabric. The slave took this cardigan and ripped the seam. He took the precious fabric and sewed it instead of thin felt or sheepskin. When the concubines returned to Madinah, they gave the cardigan to its owner. When they opened the bundle, they found a felt cloak instead of a precious fabric cardigan. They explained the situation to the concubines. They also told Hazrat Aisha or accused the slave by informing them by letter. The slave was interrogated. When he confessed his crime, Hadrat Aisha gave an order and his hand was cut off. The crime of theft is confirmed either by the testimony of two male witnesses or by the confession of the thief. According to Hanafi, Shafii and Mahkiler, one confession of the thief is sufficient. According to Abu Yusuf and Hanbalis, the confession must be made twice. Aisha said: "The stolen property must be worth at least a quarter dinar." 2433-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to me, the goods stolen to cut hands should be three dirhams. It does not matter whether the value of the dirham rises or falls. Because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cut his hand in the theft of three dirhams worth of shields, and Hadrat Osman in the theft of oranges worth three dirhams. Shaybani, 687, 688 2434-) From Nafi: Abdullah 
b. Umar's slave deserted him and ran away and stole. (When he returned to him later) Abdullah b. Umar said this to Said b. He sent it to As. When the governor avoided cutting his hand and said: "When a slave who escapes from his master steals, his hand will not be cut off", Abdullah b. Omar: In which book of Allah did you find this?» said. Then he gave the order, the thief's hand was cut off. Shaybani, 690. 
2435-) From Zureyk, son of Hakim: I bought a slave who stole while he was running away from his master. 
Then, unable to get out of the business, the governor Umar b. I wrote to Abdulaziz. (In my letter): "I heard that if a fugitive slave steals 
while on the run, his hand will not be cut off." said. He wrote the opposite of what I wrote to me: “You wrote to me that you heard that if the 
runaway slave steals, your hand will not be cut off. However, Allah says in His book: 

“As a punishment for the thief, male and female, (a warning to others not to steal), cut off their hands (one each) by the command of Allah. God is absolute victor. He is the only judge and wise." Al-Maida:  38 If the value of the stolen property reaches a quarter dinar or more, cut off his hand.» 2436-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Kasÿm b. Muhammed, Salim b. Abdullah and Urve b. Zubayr: "If the fugitive slave steals an amount that requires cutting his hand, his hand will be cut off." they would say. 2437-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our unanimous decree, if the fugitive slave steals the amount of goods required to be cut off, his hand will be cut off. 
2438-) From Safvan, son of Abdullah, son of Safvan: When it was said to Safvan, son of Umayya, "He who does not emigrate cannot achieve salvation", he migrated to Madinah, took his cloak as a pillow and slept in the mosque. A thief came and took his cloak. When Safwan caught the thief and took him to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Did you steal the cloak of this?' said. When the thief said yes, when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered his hand to be cut off, Safwan said, “I did not want his hand to be cut off. Ibn Abdilber says: Most of Malik's narrators thus narrated it as mursal. However, there are also Mevsul Rumors: Nesai Katu's-Sarÿk,  46/4,5; Ibn Majah, Hudud, 20/28. See also ' Shaybani, 685. According to the Hanafi sect, if the thief legitimately owns the stolen property before the verdict is given, the penalty for cutting his hand is waived. 
According to other sects, the punishment is not imposed, his hand is cut off. 2439-) From Rabia, son of Abu Abdullahman: Zubayr b. Avvam met a man who had caught a thief. This man wanted to take the thief to the judge. When Zubayr became the intercessor for the man to release the thief, the man said: No, I will not give up on my case until I take it to the judge. Thereupon, Zubayr said: May Allah curse those who try to save him and those who accept him, when he takes him to the presence of the judge. (Even if you give up your case when you are at peace, his hand will be cut off)" he said. 
2440-) From Abdurrahman's father, Qasim: A man from the people of Yemen, whose hand and foot was cut off, came to Abu Dhabi. He was a guest of Bekr and complained that the governor of Yemen was persecuting him. This man was also praying at night. Hazrat Abu Bakr (seeing this): I swear that your night is not like the night of the thief, because the thief either spends his night sleeping until the morning, or he wanders around to steal. He said that worship and especially night worship are incompatible with theft. Then they lost the necklace of Esma, the daughter of Umays, the wife of Hazrat Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh). The man is looking for the necklace with them and says: O my God! I transfer the situation to you who raided this beautiful benevolent family at night and took the necklace," he cursed. Later, they found the necklace in a jewelry store. The jeweler claimed that the man with his leg amputated brought him the necklace. When he confessed to his crime or there was a witness that he stole, Hadrat Abu Bakr gave the order and the man's left hand was cut off. Hadrat Abu Bakr said: By Allah, in my opinion, a man's cursing against himself is worse than stealing. 2441-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, if a person who steals repeatedly and has not been sentenced to amputation before, one hand will be cut off for all thefts. However, if his hand has been cut off for theft and the amount of the stolen property this time necessitates the punishment of amputation, the other hand is also cut off. It is confirmed by the consensus of the 689th sect imam that the right hand of the person who steals for the first time is cut off from the wrist. Because theft is done with the hand, and often with the right hand. If he steals a second time, his left foot is amputated. Such is the command and actual practice of our Master the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam). What will happen if the man steals for the third time? The issue is disputed among the imams of the madhhab: according to them, the left hand of a person who steals for the third time is no longer cut off. 
He is made to pay for what he stole and is sentenced to imprisonment until he repent. According to the Maliki and Shafi'i sect, the left hand of the person who steals for the third time and the right foot of the person who steals for the fourth time are cut off. The person who steals for the fifth time is given a penalty of imprisonment and another ta'zir. Two kinds of narrations came from Hanbalis, one being Hanafis, the other Shafi'i and Malikis. (Cezîrî, al-Fikh  ale'l-Mezahibi'l-Erba'a,  Vol. 5, pp. 159-162). 2442-) Abu'z-Zinad  reported: In a battle, Umar b. The governor of Abdulaziz (under the assumption that they were blocking the road) caught some people. They had not killed anyone. He wanted to either kill them or have my hands cut off. Situation of Umar b. He wrote to Abdulaziz. "You'd better give a lighter sentence than that," he replied. 2443-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, if someone steals from the goods that the owner collects in sacks and leaves to the market, his hand will be cut off. The situation does not change whether it is day or night, whether the owner is with his property or not. 2444-) Imam-i Malik says: When the stolen property is found in a person who steals an amount that warrants the punishment of amputation, it is taken and given to its owner. The thief's hand is also cut off. 2445-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a group of people come to a house and steal the goods in sacks, chests or baskets by carrying three dirhams or more, which will require the penalty of cutting hands, all of their hands will be cut off. But if each one of them is a standalone item, then the hand of the person who takes out an item worth three dirhams is cut off, and the one who takes out a smaller amount of items is not cut off. According to the Hanafi school, when a group steals, if one dinar or ten dirham falls for each of them, each of them separately. 
their hands are cut off. Otherwise, none of them will be cut. 2446-) Imam-i  Malik says: If someone's house is in a detached courtyard and there is no other person living there, the hand of the thief will not be cut off unless he takes the stolen property out of the courtyard. However, even if there are people living in other detached locked houses in the courtyard, then the hand of the person who steals from one of these houses and steals from one of the houses is cut off -even if he does not go out of the courtyard. 2447-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a slave, whom his master does not allow to enter or leave his private room, enters his master's room secretly and steals enough of his property to be cut off, his hand will not be cut off. If a concubine with the same qualification steals the property of her owner, her hand will not be cut off. But if the above-mentioned  slave sneaks into his master's wife's house and steals enough of his property to be cut off, then his hand will be cut off. 2448-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the woman's concubine, who does not allow her to enter her house and does not take care of her and her husband's private services, sneaks into the house of the woman and steals the amount that warrants the punishment of beheading, her hand will not be cut off. 2449-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a woman's concubine, who is not in her service and does not allow her to enter her room, sneaks in and steals something that requires cutting her hand, her hand will not be cut off. But if the same concubine sneaks into the house and steals something from his wife's husband, her hand is cut off. 2450-) Imam-i  Malik says; If the lady of the house steals from her husband's detached closed room, not from her common rooms, her hand will be cut off. Likewise, the hand of the husband who steals his wife's belongings is cut off. According to the Hanafi school, blood and the husband's hand are not cut off in either case. 2451-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a stranger who cannot speak to a small child is stolen from their house, the hand of the person who steals is cut off. 
If they leave their house, the hand of the stealer will not be cut off. It is like stealing the fruit from the tree with the goods on the mountain. According to the Shafi'i and Hanafi sects, a person who steals a free child is not punished by amputation. 2453-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, if the amount of what he takes out of the grave is enough to necessitate cutting a hand, his hand is cut off. Because the house is the place where the contents are preserved, and the grave is the place where the contents are preserved. This is also the view of Shafi'i and Hanbalis and Imam Abu Yusuf. However, according to other Hanafi sect imams, the person who robs the dead in the grave is not punished with amputation. 2454-) From Mohammed, son of Yahya, son of Habban: A slave stole a date tree from a man's garden and planted it in his master's garden. The sapling owner went out to look for the date palm sapling. When he found the slave Marwan b. He complained to the referee. When Marwan imprisoned him and wanted to cut off his hand, the master of the slave went to Hadic's son Rafi and asked the verdict of it. Rafi' said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) say, 'There is no need to cut a hand because of the theft of the fruit and date core from the tree.' The man said: Marwan b. The referee has imprisoned my slave, he wants to cut off his hand. Let's go together with me and tell him about the hadith you heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Râfi' together with Marwan b. Go to the Referee and say: Have you caught this man's slave?' said. When Marwan said "Yes", Rafi': So what will you do to him? said. When Marwan said: I want to cut off his hand, Rafi said to him; He said, "I heard the Messenger of Allah say, 'One cannot cut a hand from stealing the fruit and date core of a tree'. Thereupon Marwan ordered, and the slave was released. Abu Dawud, Hudud, 37/13; Tirmidhi, Hudud, 15/19; Nesai, Katu's-Sarÿk,  46/13; Ibn Majah, Hudud, 20/27. See also Shaybani, 684. 2455-) From Saib, son of Yazid: Abdullah b. Amr al-Hadrami  sent one of his slaves to Umar b. Bringing it to Khattab: Cut off the hand of this slave of mine, because he has stolen.' said. Hazrat Umar: What did he steal?' ' Abdullah said, 'He stole my wife's mirror worth sixty dirhams. Upon this, Hazrat Umar said: Let him go, his hand does not have to be cut off. It is your servant who steals your goods.” The reason why Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) did not cut off his hand is that the servant is considered one of the household. 2456-) From Ibn Shihab: Marwan b. A man who took an item and fled (taking advantage of the owner's negligence) was brought to the referee. Marwan wanted to cut off his hand. Also, Zayd b. Asked by Sabit. Zayd b. At fixed; There is no penalty for cutting off property that is stolen (by taking advantage of the owner's negligence) and run away," he said. 
2457-) From Yahya, son of Said: Abu Bakr, son of Muhammad, son of Amr, son of Hazm, captured a Nabataean slave who had stolen iron rings and imprisoned him to cut off his hand. Abdurrahman's daughter Amre sent her concubine named Umayya to Abu Bakr. Abu Bakr said: 'While I was among people, the concubine came to me and your aunt Amre said to you: "O my nephew, I have been informed that you caught the thief who stole something worthless, do you want to cut off his hand?" When I said yes, the concubine said: 'Amre says to you: the hand is cut off only if goods worth a quarter or more dinars are stolen. Thereupon, I released the slave" 2458-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our alliance, whoever confesses something to his detriment from among the slaves will be punished physically for this confession. Because it is permissible to confess to his own detriment. Malik says: But if he confesses something that will harm his master, it is not permissible. (His master will not be responsible.) 2459-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a worker or a man who is with a group and serves them steals something from them, their hands will not be cut off. Because their situation is not like the situation of the thief, but the situation of the person who betrays the trust. The hands of such people cannot be cut off. 2460-) Imam-i  Malik says: The hand of a person who denies the trust he has received will not be cut off. This is like a person who denies the debt he has received, his hand will not be cut off for his denial. 
2461-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the consensus is this: The hand of a thief who is caught who has not yet taken out 
the things he will steal at home is not cut off. This is like the situation of those who have put wine in front of them to drink and have 
not yet drunk it, and those who have met with a woman to commit adultery but have not yet done so. 
There is no need for them, just as it is not necessary for those who are caught in the house 
where they stole. 2462-) Imam-i  Malik says: The hand is not cut off due to the smuggled property (from the owner's side), 
whether it reaches the amount that requires cutting the hand or not. 
2463-) Saib son of Yazid narrated as follows: Umar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) came to us and said: “I found the smell of 
alcohol in so-and-so.  He claims it's boiled grape must. I'm going to ask what he's drinking and investigate. If he gets drunk, 
I'll whip him," he said. He researched it, and when he found out it was alcohol, he gave him eighty lashes. Bukhari, Esribe, 74/10; 
Shaybani, 709. According to Hanafi and Shafi'i sects, the hadd is not applied to a person who has the smell of wine unless it is proven 
either by his own confession or by the testimony of two witnesses. According to Maliki and Hanbali madhhabs, hadd is applied. 

2464-) From Zeyd ed-Dîlî,  son of Sevr: Ömer b. When Khattab asked people's opinion about the wine he drank, Hadrat Ali (radiyallahu anh) said: "We are of the opinion that he should not be beaten with eighty lashes. Because this man gets drunk for it; when he gets drunk, he starts babbling; when he is ridiculous, he slanders.” Thereupon, Omar (radiyallahu anh) began to beat those who drank wine with eighty lashes. Shaybani, 710. According to the majority of jurists and Islamic scholars, the limit of drinking alcohol, that is, the amount of punishment to be given, is determined by our religion and is not left to the discretion of the judge. However, the amount of this penalty has been disputed. According to Maliki, Hanafi and Hanbalis, those who drink alcohol are given eighty lashes. The practice of Hazrat Umar, which is our subject, and the consent of the Companions who did not object to it, are the proofs of this. According to Shafii, forty whips are shot. According to him, the fact that Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) increased it to eighty is considered a tazir, since he is the head of state. When the number of people who drink alcohol increased in some regions, Hazrat Umar wanted to aggravate the punishment. 2465-) From Ibn Shihab: When asked about the punishment to be given to a slave who drank wine from me, he said: "As it is told to me, half of the punishment of a free person is given. Umar b. Khattab, Osman b. Affan and Abdullah b. Omar said, "They used to whip their slaves who drank wine with half the punishment of free people who drank wine." Shaybani, 706. 2466-) From Yahya, son of Said: Said b. I heard Musayyeb say: "Allah loves the forgiveness of all kinds of crimes except the limits". 2467-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, hadd is wajib for those who drink intoxicating wine whether they are drunk or not. 
2468-) Abdullah b. From Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) addressed people in one of his battles. I quickly went towards him. But he finished his sermon before I reached him. When I asked what the prophet said to the people there, they were told: He forbade leaving rows in a bowl with pumpkin and pitch. Muslim, Eÿribe, 6/48 2469-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade leaving wort in a bowl containing pumpkin and pitch.” Muslim, Keriha, :iU/fi,  no:31,32 . The queue within these containers quickly turns into an intoxicating one. It is forbidden for him. This was when alcohol was first banned. The smell of wine permeated these containers that the drink 'V had used. The musts put into it turned into wine quickly. The message is not to let people use their containers!;) to make them forget the drink. Later, when the drink was completely left and the liquor was left from the containers, he allowed it to be used. A similar one is the grave visit. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) forbade all men and women who were accustomed to worshiping idols to visit graves that resembled pillars and idols. After the idols had been completely forgotten, he allowed the men to visit the tomb. 2470-) Ata b. From Yesar: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade making mustard dates and ripe dates, and dried dates and raisins in the same bowl." Ibn Abdilber says: As far as I know from Malik, he is undisputed mursal. In Bukhari and Muslim, Ibn Curayc -Zayd­Ata-Jabir  is with the deed: Bukhari, Ashribe, 74/11; Muslim, Eshribe, 36/5; no: 16-19. 
2471-) From Abu Qatada al-Ansari:  "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade drinking dried date juice and raisin juice, and fresh date juice and variegated date juice mixed together." Bukhari, Esribe, 74/11; Muslim, Esribe, 36/5, no:24,25. 2472-) Imam-i  Malik says: The scholars in our country also considered it a disgrace because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade it. Ahmed b. According to the majority opinion, it is haram by Hanbal and Shafi'i. Abu 
According to Hanife and Abu Yusuf, there is nothing wrong with drinking it. Combining this, the prohibition of drinking was in the early years of Islam, which was mostly due to the lack of livelihood and encouragement to eat with a kind of must and help others. (Sehârenfurî, Bezlü'l-Mechud,  Vol. 16, p. 37). 2473-) When the Prophet's wife, Hadrat Aisha, was asked about the ruling of honey syrup, she said, "Every intoxicating drink is haram." Bukhari, Esribe, 74/4; Muslim, Esribe, 36/7, no:67, 68; Shaybani, 711. If honey syrup swells, hardens, foams up and becomes intoxicating, it is haram to drink. Otherwise, drinking honey syrup is halal and healing. In fact, honey sherbet is useful for diarrhea if it is drunk cold, and for constipation if it is drunk warm. 
2474-) Ata b. From Yesar: When Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked about the verdict of dan must, he said: 
“There is no good in it” and forbade drinking it. . Ibn Abdilber says: Ibn Wahb narrates it as musnad through Malik -Zayd-Ata-  Ibn 
Abbas. I know from Malik that only Ibn Wahb narrated it as a musnad. Malik says: Zayd b. To Eslem: "What is Gubayra?" I asked him, 
and he said: Uskerke (a kind of wine made from millet by the Abyssinians). Shaybani, 712. The ruling of syrup is like honey syrup. If it 
swells and hardens, throws its foam and becomes intoxicating, it is haram to drink. Otherwise, it is halal and permissible to drink. 

2475-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever drinks wine in this world and does not repent, will be deprived of the wine of Paradise in the next life.” Muslim, Eÿribe, 36/8, no:76; Shaybani, 715. Whoever drinks wine by denying that it is haram and accepting it as halal, leaves the religion. However, one who drinks without considering it halal does not leave the religion. He commits a major sin because he has done one of the haram acts. He must repent in order to be saved from this great sin. We learn from the hadith that the person who dies without repenting will be deprived of the wine of Paradise. 2476-) From Ibni Vale el-Misrî:  Abdullah b. Abbas (radiyallahu anh) told me the following when I asked him about the verdict of the juice squeezed from grapes. When the man presented the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) with a sack filled with wine, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do you not know what Allah has forbidden?” he commanded. When the man said: No, someone who was with him secretly said something to him. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: What did you talk to him in secret?' he commanded. The man said: I told him to sell the wine. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to him: "Allah, who has forbidden drinking it, has forbidden it to be sold," said the man. Muslim, Musâkat, 22/12, no:68; Shaybani, 713. The item that we call wine is hamr in the Qur'an and hadiths; It is raw grape juice that swells and rises, becomes final and foams up. This has some provisions: 2477-) Enes b. From Malik (radiyallahu anh): Abu Ubeyde b. al-Cerrah'a,  Abu Talha al-Ansari  and Ubey b. 
I was distributing date groves and liquor made from dried dates to Ka'b (radiyallahu anh). At that time, someone came and said: "Wine has been made haram", Abu Talha said: O Anas! "Get up and break that wine jug," he said. I got up immediately, took the air, hit the wine jug. My test was shattered. Bukhari, Esribe, 74/3; Muslim, Esribe, 36/1, no:9; Shaybani, 716. Hadith of the Companions-i Kiran to Islam; We clearly learn to what extent they are devoted to the Qur'an and the Sunnah. Again, Enes b. As we learn from Malik's other narrations, when the 90th verse of the Surah Maide, which states that alcohol is strictly forbidden, is revealed, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) In Medina, criers shouted and declared the situation. Hearing this, the Companions of the Companions immediately spilled the liquor in their homes on the street, without feeling the need to investigate when and why alcohol was forbidden. In fact, so much alcohol was spilled that wine flowed like a flood from the streets of Medina. This is the strength of the faith of the Companions; It shows the degree of their devotion to Allah and His Messenger. This situation also draws our attention to the following: In a place where there is so much alcohol, it is understood that there are many people who drink alcohol, and that those who drink are also chronic smokers. As soon as they hear that alcohol is haram, all of them stop drinking immediately, and their strict adherence to Islam is confirmed by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). It shows their unconditional obedience to Allah and the strength of their faith. 2478-) From Mahmud al-Ansari,  son of Labid: Ömer b. When Khattab came to Damascus, the people of Damascus complained about the weight of the air there and the plague, and said: "Only this drink cures us." When Umar (radiyallahu anh) said, "Drink this honey syrup," they said, "Honey does not heal us." One of them said to Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh): Do you want us to make a wine that does not intoxicate with this honey? Hazrat Umar said: Yes. They went and boiled honey until only one remained, and brought it to Hazrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh). Upon this, Omar (radiyallahu anh) said: This is like boiled grape must. It has solidified like tar on camels,” he said, and allowed them to drink it. Ubade b. When Samit said to Omar (radiyallahu anh): "By Allah, you made it halal", Hadrat Omar (radiyallahu anh) said: No! By God," he said. (and prayed thus): "O Allah, I do not make lawful anything that you have made unlawful for them. I do not forbid anything that you have made lawful for them.” Shaybani, 721. 
2479-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): A group of people from Iraq said to me: O Ebâ Abdurrahman, we buy grapes and dates and sell them by making wine. I said: I hold Allah, His angels, humans and jinn as witnesses to you, that I do not command you to buy and sell it, to make wine, to drink, or to have a beard. Because this devil's work is a disgusting thing.” 
2480-) From Abu Bakr, son of Muhammad, son of Amr, son of Hazm, in the letter that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wrote about the 
diets when sending Amr, son of Hazm (to Najran), there was the following information: one-third  of the diet in cutting a hundred camels, 
in splitting the head up to the brain and wounding up to the abdominal cavity; Fifty camels each for one eye, one hand, and one foot. 
For two eyes, two hands, and two feet, a full diet, that is, a hundred camels, is given. If these crimes are committed by mistake, a diet 
is given. If it was deliberately committed, retaliation is required. 
However, if the parents of the deceased give up retaliation, retaliation will be converted to a diet. There is a diet of ten camels for 
each finger on the hands and feet, five camels for a tooth, and five camels for wounding up to the bone.» Shaybani, 663. 

2481-) It was narrated as follows: Omar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) determined the diet according to the situation of the villagers; He 
decided to give a thousand dinars to the gold owner and twelve thousand dirhams to the silver owner. Malik says: The owner of gold is the 
people of Damascus and Egypt, and the owner of silver is the people of Iraq. 
2482-) Diet is paid in installments in three or four years. It's better to be paid in three years, in my opinion. 

2483-) Camels are not taken from people living in villages and towns, and gold and silver are not taken from nomads. Likewise, silver cannot be taken from a gold owner and gold from a silver owner. So the diet can be given from three things: gold, silver and camel. According to Hanafis, the situation is the same. Only according to them, the amount of silver is not twelve thousand dirhams, but ten thousand dirhams. According to Imam Muhammad and Abu Yusuf, two hundred cattle or two thousand sheep or two hundred suits can also be given. Also, according to Hanafis, it is sufficient to give a diet from any of these, in accordance with the financial situation of the person who will pay the diet. According to the Malikis, the owner of a camel gives from the camel, the owner of gold gives from gold, and the owner of silver gives from silver. 2484-) Ibn Shihab says: If the deceased's guardian consents in the diet of deliberate murder, twenty-five female camels that have turned two years old, 25 female camels that have turned three years old, 25 female camels that have turned four years old and 25 female camels that have reached the age of five are given. According to Imam-i  Malik, the diet is divided into three: the diet of killing by mistake, the diet of deliberate killing if the deceased's parents agree, and the diet of killing similar to Kasde. According to Hanafis, Killing is divided into five parts: Intentional killing, Killing similar to intent, Killing by mistake, Killing by mistake, Killing by cause. If the deceased's parents donate the murderer's life in exchange for property, it is understood that the property is given. The murderer must give it from his own property without delay. In killing similar to intent, retaliation is not required, and a heavy diet penalty is required. 
For heavy diet camels, it is as follows: As Ibn Shihab states in the text above, a total of one hundred camels, twenty-five  female camels each at the age of two, three, four and five, are given. Other than that, a light diet is required in killing types. If a light diet is given from camels, it is as follows: twenty female camels at the age of two, three, four and five years old and twenty two-year-old  male camels. 2485-) Yahya b. From Said: Marwan b. Referee, Muawiya b. He wrote to Abi Sufyan that a madman who had murdered a man was brought to him, and Muawiya said to him: "Imprison him, do not kill him by retaliation. Because there is no need for retaliation for the madman," he replied. 2486-) Imam-i  Malik says: If an elder and a small child join forces and kill a man deliberately, the older man will be sentenced to death. The child is punished with half of the diet. 
2487-) If a free person and a slave kill a slave together, the slave is given death, and the free person is punished with half the value of the slave. According to the Hanafi school, a free person who kills a slave is killed in retaliation. 2488-) From Iraq, son of Malik, and Suleiman, son of Yesar: Sa'd b. A man from the sons of Leys rode his horse. He stepped on the finger of a man from the Juhayna tribe and injured him. The man died from blood loss. When the issue was brought to Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh), Omar (radiyallahu anh) said to the relatives of the horse owner: Do you take fifty oaths that the man did not die from bleeding from his finger?» said, they took an oath and abstained from sin. Then to the relatives of the deceased: Do you swear that you died of blood loss?' said. They, too, refrained from taking the oath. Thereupon, Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) ordered the Sa'dis to give half a diet. Malik says: The exercise is not like that. 2489-) From Imam-i  Malik: Ibn Shihab, Suleiman the son of Yesar, and Rebia, son of Abu Abdurrahman: "The diet for killing a man by mistake was twenty female camels at the age of two, twenty female camels at the age of three, twenty male camels and twenty male camels at the age of four. female camels and twenty female camels that have reached the age of five. According to Malik, the oath is given first to the plaintiff and then to the defendant. However, Hazrat Umar made the defendant swear first, and then the plaintiff. The issue of taking an oath or making an oath to fifty people will be examined separately in the future. 2490-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our alliance, there is no need for retaliation between children. For, their deliberate killing is considered to be a mistake, unless they reach puberty and do not have to have a hadd. If a small child and an older man accidentally kill a free man together, each of their elders (= their paternal relatives) pays half of the deceased's diet. 2491-) Imam-i  Malik says: Whoever kills a man by mistake, retaliation is not made, but a diet is paid from his property. Because he is like the others in terms of property. (His property is treated as the deceased's property). His debt is paid, his will is fulfilled, and if he has any property, his diet will be one-third  of his property. The remainder of the diet drops. This is okay for him. If he has no property other than his diet, it is permissible to give one-third  of it. This is so when it is donated to him or bequeathed to him. Shaybani, 667. 2492-) Imam-i  Malik says: The consensus in our view is that in an injury, no diet is paid until the injured person recovers and regains his health. If a broken bone from a person's hand, foot or another part of his body by mistake heals and returns to its original state, then no diet is required. However, if there is a defect or trace left behind, then the amount of this defect must be paid for. Malik says: If there is a diet amount specified by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about this broken bone, it is paid. But about the bone, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu If there is no diet in which the Prophet (peace be upon him) stated the amount and no application has been made in this regard, then the amount of the diet is determined by ijtihad. Malik says: If the body is injured by mistake, if the wound heals and returns to its original state, there is no diet. But if scars and defects remain in the wound, then the diet is appreciated. However, one-third  of the manslaughter diet is paid for injuries that reach the abdominal cavity. Injury in this way is usually in the abdomen, chest and back. Malik says: There is no diet because the bone in the body is injured. It's like peeling off the flesh and revealing the bone. 2493-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our agreement, if the doctor cuts the genital organ from the circumcision area while performing circumcision, a diet is required. This is from the mistake whose diet the wise (relative) has to pay. Every mistake that the doctor makes unintentionally requires a diet. 
2494-) Said b. It was narrated from Museyyeb: The diet of a woman's limbs is like that of a man until it reaches one-third  of the diet. The diet of the woman's finger, the man's finger, the female, the man's tooth, in the wounds penetrating to the bones of the head and face, and in injuries that cause malfunctions in the bones, are similar to men and women. Malikis do not count the lower jaw and nose from the face. The other three sects count as a hundred. 2495-) Imam-i  Malik, Ibn Shihab'la Urve b. Zübeyr's about the diet of the woman, Said b. He narrated that they thought like Musayyeb. These are: «A woman's diet is equal to a man's diet, up to a third of the amount of a manslaughter diet. When it reaches one-third  of the man's diet, then the woman's diet is half the man's.” they said. 2496-) Imam-i  Malik says: The explanation 
for this is as follows: The diet of the woman is the man's diet for injuries up to a third of the head and face, fractures and displacement 
of the bone, lighter wounds than the injuries that reach the brain and inner cavity, and similar injuries. equivalent to your diet. But if it reaches a third, then the woman's diet is half that of the man's. According to Hanafis and Shafiis, a woman's diet is half that of a man's, no matter how little or what. As it is known, Islam did not distinguish between the life of a woman and the life of a man, and ordered the murder of the man who killed the woman. However, due to a number of reasons, this equality was not observed in terms of diets. Because men are generally more producers, earners of their families and defenders of the homeland. For this reason, the death or disability of men creates greater wounds in the heart of the society. For this reason, there were differences in diets in the classical period. 2497-) Imam-i  Malik has narrated that Ibn Shihab said: "The practice continued about whether a person who injured his wife should be subjected to a diet or not." 2498-) Imam-i  Malik says: This happens when a person accidentally hits and injures his wife, not intentionally. Like hitting his wife with a whip and taking out her eye and so on. Because a man has the right to punish his wife. It is stated in some hadiths with the 34th verse of Nisa Surah that a wife who does not fulfill her husband's duty of blood, does not obey his legitimate wishes and orders, and that her husband can beat her without going beyond the limit. 
There is no need for retaliation if he is injured while hitting without the intention of injuring or harming. Otherwise it should. 2499-) 
Imam-i  Malik says: A woman's asaba (father's relative) and her husband who is not from her tribe and her child from the same husband 
do not have to pay for the murder committed by the woman. A main brother is also not responsible for paying his diet. But they are more 
deserving of the inheritance of the woman. Dietary payment belongs to the asaba from the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to the 
present day. Such is the case of the slaves freed by the woman. Although they are not from the woman's tribe, their inheritance belongs 
to the woman's child. The diet of their murder falls on the tribe of the woman. 

2500-) From Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh): Two women from the Huzayl tribe (fought). One of them threw a stone at the other. He is 
also the fetus in the womb. The child in the womb is called a fetus. (dead) dropped. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa 
sallam) decreed that a slave or concubine be given for the diet of this fetus. Bukhari, Tib, 76/46; Muslim, Kasama, 28/11, no:34; 
Shaybani, 675. 
2501-) Said b. From Musayyeb: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered that a slave or concubine be given as the diet for 
the fetus killed in its mother's womb, the person who was judged against: How can I pay the diet of a fetus that does not eat or 
drink, speaks and does not make a sound when it is born? Such judgments are invalid," he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah 
(sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: This man looks like a soothsayer. 
2502-) Rabia, son of Abu Abdurrahman, used to say: The diet of the fetus is estimated at fifty dinars or six hundred dirhams. 
Malikis to Hanafis are united in the appreciation of dinar (gold). At the discretion of Dirham (Silver), they leave. 
According to Hanafis, it is five hundred dirhams. The diet of a free Muslim woman is five hundred dinars or six thousand dirhams. 
Malik says: The diet of a free woman's fetus is one-tenth  of her own diet. This is fifty dinars or six hundred dirhams in one tenth. 

2503-) I have never heard of anyone opposing the need for a diet for a fetus that was born alive and left its mother's womb alive. 
2504-) Imam-i  Malik says: I heard that a fetus that was born alive and dies requires a full diet. 2505-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the fetus 
is alive, it is fixed when it makes a sound when it is born. So the sound when born 

The diet of the fetus that dies and then dies is a complete diet. The diet of the fetus miscarried by the concubine is one-tenth  of the mother's price. 2506-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a pregnant woman kills a man or woman deliberately, the punishment of retaliation is not applied until she gives birth. If the woman who was killed intentionally or by mistake is pregnant, nothing is necessary for the fetus of the murdered woman. If the woman was killed intentionally, the woman who killed her will be killed in a nutshell. The fetus does not need a diet. If he was killed by mistake, the wise man of the woman who killed him pays his diet. The fetus does not need a diet. 2507-) Yahya says: When Malik was asked about the verdict of the fetus that a Jewish and Christian woman miscarried by hitting the abdomen and the like, he said: "I think that one tenth of his mother's diet is needed." 2508-) Said b. It was narrated that Museyyeb said: A full diet is required for both lips. If the lower lip is amputated, her diet is two-thirds of the full diet. According to Imam-i  Malik, it is half a diet. According to Hanafis, it is a half diet. Because, as a rule, the diet of the double limb is full, and the diet of one of them is half. 2509-) When Imam-i  Malik asked Ibn Shihab about the situation of a cross-eyed person who took out the eye of a healthy person (by mistake), Ibn Shihab said: "Retaliation is done if the eye is taken out, if he wants a diet, a thousand dinars or two thousand dirhams." 
is given.” 
2510-) It was reported to Imam-i  Malik: The diet of a man's double organs, the tongue, the two ears that remove the sense of hearing, the male genitalia and the two eggs, whether they are cut from the bottom or not, is a complete diet. 2511-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: The diet of cutting off both breasts of a woman is also a complete diet. Even if the ends of both breasts are cut off, the diet is still complete. Because it has an indicative function. It is the child's food source. 2512-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to me, the lightest of these is the diet of the eyebrows and the two breasts of the man. There is no specific diet for them. It is left to the judge's judgment. Because there is no significant benefit from these limbs. 2514-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the eye of a person with a healthy eye is removed by mistake, a full diet is required. According to Shaybani, 664., half a diet is required. 
2515-) From Solomon, son of Yesar: Zayd b. Fixed: "The diet of the eye whose sense of sight is removed is one hundred dinars," 
he used to say. 

2516-) Yahya says: When Malik is asked about the decision of cutting the lower eyelid and round bone around the eye: “There is no 
determined diet for this. It is left to the discretion of the judge. However, if the vision of the eye has decreased, then a diet as much 
as the decreased amount of vision is required. According to the Hanafis, when one of the upper or lower eyelids, which has a total 
number of four, is cut off, a quarter of the full diet is required. 2517-) Imam-i  Malik says: There is no fixed amount of diet for the squint 
eye whose sense of sight is removed and for the bare arm that has been amputated. It is left to the discretion of the judge. 

2518-) From Solomon, son of Yesar: The diet of wounding on the face that goes down to the bone is like the diet of wounding 
up to the head bone. However, if the wound leaves a defect on the face, then half of the diet for the head wound is added to the 
diet of the face. Thus, the amount of the diet becomes seventy-five  dinars. With the unanimity of all sects and lexicographers, the 
wounds on the face and head are divided into ten parts: The peeling of the skin without bleeding, The wound on the skin where the 
blood collects in drops or not. The wound, enough to bleed—a  little—The  wound where a little bit of meat was cut along with the skin, 
The wound where a lot of meat was cut off with the skin. The wound that reaches the membrane between the hand and the bone, The 
wound that reveals the bone, The wound that breaks the bone. A wound that displaces after breaking a bone. Wound reaching the 
brain. 2519-) Imam-i  Malik says: In cases of injury that does not reach the brain, the diet is fifteen camels. The wound that takes from 
the bone and does not reach the brain occurs on the head and face. 2520-) Imam-i  Malik says: There is no need for retaliation for an 
injury that reaches the brain and abdominal cavity. 

2521-) As a matter of fact, Ibn Shihab said, "There is no retaliation in an injury that reaches the brain." 
2522-) Imam-i  Malik says: An injury that breaks the bone and reaches the brain can only happen in the 
head. 2523-) Imam-i  Malik says: There is no diet for minor injuries that do not reveal the bone in the head and face. 
The diet has deep-rooted  and larger injuries. Because our Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) Amr b. In the edict he wrote to 
Hazm about diets, he mentioned the injury that lasted to the bone and appreciated his diet by five camels. Neither the old nor the 
new caliphs ruled the diet for minor wounds that did not penetrate to the bone. 

2524-) Said b. Müseyyeb: «For a wound in any limb of a person, one third of the diet of that limb is required» 
said. 

2525-) Imam-i  Malik says; Ibn Shihab was of the opinion that such minor injuries would not require a diet. In my opinion, there is no 
particular diet agreed upon in such cases. But I think the judge can appreciate the diet. 2526-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, 
there is a diet that is specified when the injury reaches to the brain, the injury of the facial and head bones, the appearance of the bone 
by scraping the flesh of the wound, on the head and face. other of your body 

Judgment is left to the discretion of the judge. The rule is the same in sects. 2527-) Imam-i  Malik says: The lower jawbone and nasal bone are not from the head. They are two separate bones. According to the other three madhhabs, they are considered to be a start and a diet is required. I am of the opinion that there is no diet in their injury. The head bone is detached apart from these. 2528-) From Rabia, son of Abu Abdurrahman, «Abdulah b. Zubayr retaliated for the injury to his skull.” 2529-) From Rabia, son of Abdurrahman: Said b. To Musayyeb: « How much is the diet of one finger of a woman?» When I asked him, he replied: It is ten camels. Me: how much are two fingers on a diet?» He said: Twenty camels. How much is the diet of three fingers?» said. Thirty camels,” he said. Me this time: How much is the diet of four fingers?» When we asked him, he said: Twenty camels. We have stated that according to the Maliki sect, the diet of a woman's limbs is equal to the diet of a man's limbs up to one-third of the full diet, and when it reaches one-third,  it will be half that of a man's. The diet of the four toes of the man is forty camels, which is more than a third of a hundred camels, which are the full diet. For this reason, the diet of the four fingers of the woman has decreased to half of the diet of the four fingers of the man. Then I asked: does his diet decrease as his wound grows and the pain becomes more severe?' when he said "Said: Are you Iraqi?" said. When I said: I am a scholar who acts cautiously or an ignorant person who wants to learn, Said said: I am speaking based on hadiths. 2530-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the fingers of the hand are cut off, then the diet of the whole hand is required. Because if five fingers are cut off, its diet is fifty camels, which is the diet of the hand, then the diet of each finger will be ten camels. 2531-) Imam-i  Malik says: The diet of the cut joint of the three-jointed  fingers is one-third  of the finger diet. This is thirty-three  and a half dinars. From the camel, three camels are worth one third of the camel. 2532-) Omar b. From Eslem, Khattab's freed slave: Ömer b. Khattab ordered a camel as a diet for the grinding tooth, collarbone and ribs. 
2533-) Said b. From Müseyyeb; Umar b. Khattab a camel for grinding teeth (molars) and Muawiya b. Abi Sufyan ruled on a diet of five camels. According to the Hanafi, Shafii and Maliki sects, their diet is based on five camels, regardless of their teeth. Because the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) Amr b. In the edict he wrote to Hazm, the tooth was mentioned as absolute and it was stated that his diet was five camels. The Malikis' view will be explained a little later. 2534-) Diet, Ömer b. According to the decree of Khattab, it is less, and according to the decree of Muawiya, it is a lot. If I were to judge, I would commend two camels for each of the grinding teeth. Every person who makes ijtihad gains thawabs. Said b. It was narrated that Musayyeb said: "If a tooth is struck and becomes pitch black (it does not work), a full diet is required. If it comes off after it turns black, then again, another full diet is needed.” Because in the first case, the tooth becomes useless, and in the second case, because the tooth comes out and the mouth becomes ugly and its beauty disappears, a diet is required. 
2535-) From Abu Gatafan al-Murri,  son of Tarif: Mervan b. The referee sent me to Abdullah b. sent to Abbas. (When I went and asked) Abdullah b. Abbas (radiyallahu anh) said, "The diet of the grinding tooth is five camels." (When I conveyed the judgment to Marwan b. Arbitrator) Abdullah b. He sent it to Abbas and said to him: Marwan: Do you count the front incisors as grinding teeth?» When he conveyed his word, Ibn Abbas said: You have to compare it to the fingers. Their diets are equal (even though their jobs are different)" he said. 2536-) It was narrated that Urwa kept the teeth equal in terms of diet, and some of them did not favor others. 2537-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the diet of cutting, grinding and sharp teeth is equal. Because the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The diet of a tooth is five camels", and the grinding tooth is one of these teeth. Some of them are not superior to the other. Shaybani, 668. 2538-) According to Imam-i  Malik, Said b. Müseyyeb and Süleyman b. Yesar used to say, "The slave's diet for a bone-injured  wound on his face and head is one-twentieth  of its own value." 2539-) According to what is reported to Imam-i  Malik, Marwan b. The referee would decide on the injured slave's diet equal to the amount of the wound deficient, from the value of the slave to the injured slave. 2540-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the diet of a slave's wound that pierces his face and head to the bone is one twentieth of the slave's value. The diet of the wound that damaged the bone on the head and face of the slave is one tenth and one twentieth of the slave's value. The diet of the wound penetrating the slave's brain (in the abdomen, chest and back region) and the wound penetrating the inside is one-third  of the slave's value. Apart from these four types of wounds, the diet of the wounds that degrade the slave's value is calculated as follows: When a wound of the slave is healed, the price before the injury is also calculated. The difference is paid as a diet. 2541-) Imam-i  Malik says; If the slave's hand and foot bone were broken and then the bones were healed by boiling, nothing would be needed to break it. But if a defect or ugliness occurs, then a dowry is paid as much as the value it degrades in the slave's worth. 2542-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, retaliation between slaves is like retaliation between free people. The concubine who kills the male slave is killed in a nutshell. Similarly, retaliation is made for the slave who injured the concubine. 
When the slave deliberately kills a slave, the master of the deceased slave is free to choose one of two things; 
If he wishes, the murderer wants the death of the slave, if he wishes, he gives up the retaliation and takes the diet of the murdered slave. If he wants to buy the diet, he takes the value of his slave. The master of the murdered slave can also give the deceased slave's diet or give his own slave if he wants. If he delivers his own slave to the master of the deceased slave, he does not have to do anything else. When he accepts this and takes it, he cannot kill the slave he bought by retaliation. This is the verdict of all retaliation among slaves. The judgment in cutting hands, feet and the like is the same as in killing. 2543-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a Muslim slave injures a Jew or a Christian, the master of the slave will give the food for the wound if he wishes, or deliver the slave (to the court) if he wishes. The court sells the slave and gives the Jew or the Christian the diet for his wound from the slave's money. If the diet is worth the slave's value, he gives all of the slave's money. But he does not give a Muslim slave to a Jew or a Christian. 2544-) According to what is reported to Imam-i  Malik, Umar b. Abdulaziz ruled that when one of the Jews and Christians was killed, his diet was half that of a free Muslim. Jews and Christians living under Muslim rule are called dhimmis. According to Hanafis, the diet of killing a dhimmi by mistake is the same as that of a free Muslim, there is no difference. 2545-) Imam-i  Malik says: In our opinion, a Muslim who kills an unbeliever cannot be killed if you retaliate. According to Hanafis, a Muslim who kills a dhimmi is killed in a nutshell. Because the Islamic state has committed to protecting his life. But if the Muslim killed the unbeliever by deceiving him, then retaliation is applied. 
2546-) From Yahya, son of Said: Suleiman, son of Yesar, used to say, "The diet of the Magus (a fire worshiper) is eight hundred dirhams." Malik says: "This is also the case for us." According to Hanafis, the diet of a magi is just like the diet of a Muslim. 2547-) Imam-i  Malik says: The diet for injuring a Jew, a Christian, or a Magi is calculated according to the diet for injuring Muslims. The diet of the wound penetrating to the bone on the head and face and the wound penetrating to the brain is one-twentieth  of its own diet, and the diet of the wound penetrating into the abdomen, back and chest region is also one-third  of its own diet. The diet of other wounds is the same. 
2548-) Hisham narrated that his father, Urwa, said: “The wise man does not have to pay the diet in deliberate killing. Wisdom only pays for killing by mistake». According to Abu Hanifa, when the amount of the diet reaches one twentieth of the full diet, the wise man pays, and the perpetrator pays less than that. 2549-) It was narrated that Ibn Shihab said: "According to the applied principle, the mind does not impose the diet of deliberate murder. But they can give if they want.” 2551-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the parents of the one who was killed in deliberate murder forgive the murderer's killing through retaliation, then the price must be paid from the murderer's own private property. However, if they want to help the murderer out of a good heart, they can. 2552-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the offender pays less than one-third  of the full diet from his own property. But when the amount of the diet reaches at least one third of the full diet, then the mind pays. If he is alive, he does not give a rational diet to himself, if he is dead, to his heirs. 2553-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the undisputed view is this: If a diet is accepted for deliberate killing or for injuries that require a short cut, the offender must pay it from his own property. If he has money, he pays. Otherwise, it's in debt. He pays when he has the opportunity to pay, his mind does not have to pay anything. But if they want to pay of their own free will, they can pay. In murder, retaliation is required, not diet. However, we have already stated that if the parents of the deceased forgive, then a diet can be given. They are the relatives of the murderer, who pay the diet for killing by mistake. The degree of payment of the diet of the aqila is as follows, respectively. Such as professional groups, military units and civil servants groups that receive a salary from the treasury of which the murderer is a member. Asabesi (male relatives on the paternal side), if these two groups do not exist, the state treasury. 2554-) Imam-i  Malik says: He does not give a rational diet to anyone who hurts himself in any way intentionally or by mistake. This is the opinion of the fuqaha with us. I have not heard of anyone making a mental diet necessary for anyone who intentionally harms himself. Allah Almighty says in the Qur'an: "If the murderer's short or part of the diet is forgiven by his religious brother (one of the parents of the murdered person), the other guardians should follow this and demand a good diet without oppressing the murderer, and the murderer must pay the full diet without delay." Baccarat: This is what is understood from command 178. The explanation of the verse of the Quran —Allahu  alam-is  in our opinion: “Whoever is donated something from the diet, he should follow it with kindness, and he should pay the whole diet to the deceased's guardian without delay”. 2555-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a woman or child who has no property commits a crime that requires less than one-third  of the full diet (one hundred camels), it is theirs to pay the diet. If they have goods, a diet is taken. Otherwise, they are in debt. The wise man does not have to pay anything. If the amount of the diet is less 
than one-third  of the full diet, the axilla is not required to pay the diet. One third or more pays the mind. If the baby is harmed, the harm is wasted. The father does not pay for the murder of his son. 2556-) Imam-i  Malik says: Our undisputed opinion is this: If a slave is killed, his diet is the value on the day he was killed. No matter how much it is worth, even if it is less or more than the amount of the diet, the killer can do it himself. 
He pays from his property, because the slave is like a property. It is not necessary to pay a diet to the mind of the murderer. According to Shafi'i and Hanafis, the goods taken as a diet are like the other goods of the dead. The heirs receive their 
share of the diet in proportion to their shares. 2557-) Ibn Shihab narrates: Umar b. When Khattab (radiyallahu anh) asked people to inform him if anyone knew anything about diet in Mina, Sufyan's son Dahhak al-Kilabi  stood up and said, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told me that Eÿyem ed-Dÿbâbî's  wife was the heir of her husband's diet. He wrote me to do it," he said. Upon this, Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said, “Get in the tent, I will come and see you.” Dahhak entered the tent. 
When Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) came to him, Dahhak informed him of what he knew. Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) also ruled accordingly (he made women heirs to the diet of their husbands). According to Shafi'i and Hanafis, the goods taken as a diet are like the other goods of the dead. The heirs receive their share of the diet in proportion to their shares. Shihab said: "My wife was killed by mistake." According to Abu Hanifa, Imam Shafii and Malik, if the murderer's life is spared in the event of intentional death, this is also divided among his heirs. (Bâcî, Münteka annotation Muvatta', volume 7, p.104). 2558-) From Amr son of Shuayb: A man named Qatada, one of the sons of Mudlich, threw the sword at his son (when he got angry), it hit his leg and he died from excessive blood loss. Cu'shum son Suraka came to Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) and presented the situation. Hadrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) said to him: "Mai Kudayd" is a place between Mecca and Medina until I come to you. Count one hundred and twenty camels in your area.” Suraka was the chief of his tribe. 
Because he came to Hazrat Umar and spoke on behalf of his people, Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) ordered him to separate the camels. If the diet is given from camels in killing people, we learned from the hadith before that it is one hundred camels. Hazrat Umar's saying 120 camels here means either separate a hundred camels from these 120 camels, or he may have wanted to make the diet heavier, then he may have understood that the heavy diet was not related to the number of camels, but rather related to age groups. He went and counted. When Hazrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) came there, he separated thirty four-year-old  and thirty five-year-old  female camels from these camels and forty pregnant camels: Where is the dead man's brother? said. When the brother of the deceased said: "Here I am", Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: Take these camels. A father who killed his son does not have to give a diet," he said. In this incident, we see that the father killed his son and that Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) gave his diet from the state treasury. In fact, the issue is whether the father who killed his son is killed through retaliation or not? The issue is controversial among the sects: According to Hanafi, Shafii and Hanbalis, retaliation cannot be made against a father who killed his son. Because the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "A father who killed his son will not be retaliated for". This hadith-i  sharif allocates the general provision of "life for life..." in the verse. A father is the reason for his child's life. Also, fathers have an innate love for their children. For these reasons, it is very rare for fathers to kill their children. According to this, a father who kills his child by mistake cannot be retaliated. But if he put his son to bed and slaughtered him or imprisoned him until he died and starved him, then retaliation is done. Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) delivered the diet to the deceased's brother. Because the father who kills his son is deprived of his inheritance, therefore his share in the diet, and cannot get it. 
2559-) According to Malik, Said b. Müseyyeb and Süleymar b. He asked Yesar, "Is the diet of murder aggravated in the sacred months?" When asked: No, it is not aggravated. But due to the veneration of these months, the diet is multiplied.” they said. Thereupon, Said asked: Is it increased in the face of wounds, as it is increased in return for life?» When asked, he said: Yes. 2560-) Imam-i  Malik says: I think they wanted to judge the father of the Mudlic tribe who killed his son, similar to what Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) did. 
2561-) Urve b. From Zubayr: Someone from Ansar named Uheyhe, son of Cülah, had a younger uncle. His uncles took care of his training and supervision. His little uncle took him from his uncles to look after him because his uncle is one of the male relatives from the father's side. For this reason, taking care of the father and motherless child has priority over the uncles. Here, his uncle took the child from his uncles by using this right. and killed it. Thereupon, his uncles said: “We looked after him until he grew up and became stronger. But the right of one of his uncles prevailed over us. (They took him and his property from us). His uncle killed him. Asabasi (male relative on the father's side) inherited the property of the child. His uncle could not inherit. For this reason, they said that when the child's property was seized, his uncles expressed their feelings in the text above. "That's why the murderer cannot inherit the person he killed," he said. 2562-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the undisputed rule is this: A person who kills deliberately does not inherit his diet or property. It cannot deprive any heir from inheritance. 
A person who kills by mistake cannot inherit the diet of the person he killed. However, it was disputed that he inherited his property. Because in this case, it is not possible to accuse the murderer of killing him "in order to inherit his property": In my opinion, it is more appropriate to inherit his property and not his diet. According to Abu Hanifa and Imam Shafii, a person who accidentally kills a relative cannot inherit the victim's diet or property. (See Bâcî, Münteka, Vol. 7, p. 108). 2563-) From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There is no diet. There is no diet in the murder that occurs in the well-digging,  if no one influences and causes it. There is no diet in the damage that occurs in the mine. There is a one-fifth  tax on treasure goods.” he commanded. Bukhari Zakat, 24/66; Muslim, Hudud, 29/11, no: 45. Information about the taxation of his goods was given in the zakat section. Malik says: Cubâr in the hadith means that there is no diet in it, 2564-) Imam-i  Malik says: The rider, driver and the one who pulls the reins of the animal are responsible for the damage caused by the animal. Either these three people are found separately or together. If only one of them is found, he will be responsible for the damage and loss caused by the animal. All three of them are jointly liable if they have any faults. However, if the animal is kicked and harmed without doing anything, they are not responsible for it. Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) decreed a diet for the one who caused harm by running his horse. Malik says: He who rides an animal, rides behind it and pulls in front of it is more worthy than a person who makes his horse run to pay for the damage. 2565-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, a person who digs a well, connects animals, or does something similar on the road where people pass by, is responsible for the damage caused by them, if he has not done these things out of necessity. If the amount of the diet is less than a third of the full diet, he pays from his own property. If the amount of the diet is one-third  or more of the full diet, the akile (male relatives on the paternal side) pays. If he did these out of need, for example, he dug the well to collect rain water and left his animal on the road for some work, then he will not be responsible for any of these. 2566-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a man starts to descend into the well and someone else follows him, if the bottom man pulls the top one and both of them fall to the bottom of the well and die, the mind of the person who pulled it will pay the heirs of the other person. 2567-) Imam-i  Malik says: If someone orders a child to descend into a 
well or climb a tree, and the child dies or is harmed while doing so, the person giving the order pays the ration for it. 2568-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the undisputed opinion is this: Women and children who are with the âqila who need to pay a diet do not need to pay a diet. Men who have reached puberty pay the diet. 2569-) Imam-i  Malik says: People who are connected to each other by freeing slaves or by agreement among themselves can pay each other's diet if they wish. If they refrain from paying the diet, the groups that receive a salary from the state, called the people of the Divan, pay each other's diet. Muslims were helping each other in paying the diet during the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and Hazrat Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) before the official council members were formed. The formation of Divan style (groups receiving salary from the treasury) was in the time of Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh). A person's diet is not required to be paid by anyone other than his relatives and those to whom he is attached through custody. Because custody (interdependence) does not pass to foreigners. The Messenger of Allah said: "Vela right belongs to the one who frees him". Malik says: "Velâ is a fixed lineage. » 2570-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the person who harms animals should pay the amount of the animal's deficient value due to this damage. 2571-) Imam-i  Malik says: If someone who should be killed briefly commits another crime, such as adultery or stealing, he will not be subjected to the hadd. The death penalty is enough for all. However, the punishment for slandering a chaste person is not like this. For it will be said to the slandered person: "What is the matter with you that you flog the person who slanders against you?" is called. For this reason, I am of the opinion that the person sentenced to death in retaliation should first be flogged for hadd al-qazf  (slandering chastity) and then killed. This is not the case in qisas for other injuries, except for the murder. Because killing in retaliation is sufficient for all other punishments. 2572-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person is found killed in a village or among a community in another place, the one whose house and place is closest to the dead person will not be held responsible. Because they could have been killed elsewhere and thrown at their door to make them look guilty. No one is held responsible for such things. 2573-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a group of people fight, and then when they leave, if there is an injured or dead person among them whose cause is unknown, the best thing I have heard about this is that all those who fought with them pay the dead person's diet. If the dead or injured combatant is not from either group, both groups must pay the diet. Shaybani ,677 2574-) Said b. From Museyyeb: Omar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) killed five or seven people who killed a man by ambush and ambush and said: "If all the people of Sana'a had participated in this crime, I would have killed them all." 
2575-) According to what was reported to Muhammad, son of Abdurrahman, son of Sa'd, son of Zurare, Hafsa, the wife of our Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), ordered the murder of his concubine, who used to do magic on him, and was killed. Hafsa (radiyallahu anh) attributed the liberation of the concubine to her own death. 2576-) Imam-i  Malik says: A person who does magic for someone who does not use magic for himself is like the person Allah says in his book: "They (Jews) will certainly see the one who buys it (magic) (who makes money by doing magic and sorcery) in the Hereafter. they certainly knew that he had no share in it" Baccarat: 102. I personally think that the person who did it should be killed. 
2577-) From Omar, son of Hussein, freed slave of Kudame's daughter Aisha: Abdulmalik b. Marwan slain with a staff 
He ordered someone's guardian to kill the murderer exactly. He killed the murderer with a stick. 2578-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the unanimously accepted view is this: If a man hits someone with a stick, throws a stone at him or hits him deliberately, even if he dies, it is deliberate killing and retaliation is required. We mentioned earlier that according to the Hanafis, the killing is divided into five parts. According to them, deliberate killing occurs with weapons or injurious tools such as swords, knives and axes. Apart from these, killing by hitting with stones, sticks and hands is killing that resembles intent, according to Abu Hanifa. There is no need for retribution, you need a diet. According to Abu Yusuf and Muhammad and other madhhab imams, it is deliberate killing. It requires short. 2579-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, deliberate killing is when one man kills another by deliberately hitting him until he gets hurt. In addition, it is also intentional killing when someone who has enmity between them hits the other and leaves while he is alive and then bleeds to death due to this blow. This requires a kasama (fifty vows). According to Imam Shafi, killing by being shot to death with a small stick is deliberate killing. You need a short. According to Hanafis, resembling intent is killing, a diet is required. As Imam-i  Malik states, the need for a case is like this: Since it is not proven with definitive evidence that the man died because of his beating, his parents file a lawsuit because someone deliberately killed him, and if the defendant denies this, fifty oaths are given to the deceased's parents by the court. If they swear, the murderer will be killed in a nutshell. This is the ruling of the Malikis. The subject will be dealt with separately in the future, and the view of the Hanafis will be explained there. 2580-) Imam-i  Malik says: Men who kill a free man deliberately all together, women who kill a woman, and slaves who kill a slave are killed as retaliation 2581-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Marwan b. Referee, Muawiya b. When he wrote to Abi Sufyan that a drunken man was brought to him (whether retaliation will be applied or not), Muawiya replied: "Kill him in exchange for the victim." 2582-) Imam-i  Malik says: "The best thing I have heard about the explanation of Allah's command: "Free and slave, slave, -(these are men) women, women (to be briefed)" Baccarat, 178 is like retaliation between men. It also happens among women. Just as a free man who kills a free man is killed, so is a free woman who kills a free woman. Again, just as the male slave who kills the male slave is killed, the concubine who kills the concubine is also killed. 
According to Hanafis, we mentioned earlier that a free person who kills a slave will be killed through retaliation. In that case, retaliation takes place between women as well as between men. retaliation like this also happens between men and women. As a matter of fact, Allahu Teala says in the Qur'an: "We have made obligatory upon them in the Torah: life for life, eye for eye, nose for nose, ear for ear, tooth for tooth, and wounds are certainly retaliatory. (Retaliation is applied in these.) » Maide,45 Allahu Teala declared that the soul will be retaliated against the soul. In that case, the woman who killed a free man will be killed in retaliation, and the woman who injured him will be wounded in retaliation. 2583-) Imam-i  Malik says: If someone hires a man to beat the other and he beats him there until he dies, it will be looked at. If the person hired him to kill, then both are killed. But if he doesn't know that he is going to beat him with the intention of killing, just so that he can beat people as they do, then the murderer is killed. The person who catches it is given a one-year  prison sentence for holding him, he is not killed. According to Abu Hanifa and Imam Shafi, retaliation cannot be made against the person who has taken it. 2584-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a person who kills a man or removes his eye deliberately is killed before retaliation is done or his eye is removed, then neither diet nor retaliation is required. Because the right of the person who was killed or whose eye was taken out was in that man's soul or eye. These, too, disappeared shortly before. It's like when someone dies after killing a man and becoming a murderer. After the murderer's death, the dead owner has no right to demand a diet or anything else. Because Allah said: Retaliation has been prescribed for you regarding those who were killed. The free will be retaliated with the free, the slave with the slave," Bakara, 178 said. Malik says: Retaliation is applied to the murderer who killed the victim. When the murderer dies, the victim has no short or no diet. 2585-) Imam-i  Malik says: There is no retaliation between a free and a slave in injuries. According to Imam Shafii and Abu Hanifa, the rule was the same. A slave who kills a free person deliberately is killed. But a free person who kills a slave deliberately cannot be killed. According to Imam Shafii, the rule is the same. According to Abu Hanifa, a free person who kills a slave is also killed in retaliation. This is the best thing I've heard. 2586-) Imam-i  Malik says: Scholars whose knowledge I trust say the following: If the victim asks for the forgiveness of the person who killed him intentionally before he dies, it is permissible. Because the victim is more worthy of judgment about his own blood than his parents. 2587-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the deceased's guardian forgives the one who killed him deliberately, the murderer does not have to pay a diet. 
However, if he forgives on the condition that he gives a diet, then he takes it. 2588-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the murderer is pardoned, he will be punished with one hundred lashes and imprisoned for one year. And if they have daughters and their sons forgive the murderer, and they refrain from forgiving the daughters, the forgiveness of their sons is sufficient. Daughters who are with sons have no right to demand and forgive their father's blood. 2590-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the unanimously accepted verdict is: Anyone who deliberately breaks someone's hand and foot No one's punishment is diet, it's shortness. However, if a person whose arm and leg is broken gives up qisas, the punishment turns into a diet. 2591-) Imam-i  Malik says: No retaliation is made against anyone until the wound of the one he injured is healed. When the wound heals, retaliation is done. When the wound of the person who is retaliated is healed, if it is like the wound of the person he injured, it is retaliation. However, if the person who has done retaliation has more wounds or dies, nothing is necessary for the one who gets injured and demands retaliation first. If the wound of the person who is done retaliation is healed and the injured person is left bare or if there is a scar or fault in the place of his wound, retaliation is not done for the second time. Malik says: But he is given a diet (compensation is paid) as much as the defect caused by the wound from the first form of his hand. The same is true of wounds on the body. 2592-) Imam-i  Malik says; If a person deliberately hits his wife, or vomits up her arm, cuts her finger, or does something similar, retaliation is done. Even if the husband deliberately hits his wife with a rope or a stick, if an undesirable injury occurs, he gives his diet, and retaliation is not done. 2593-) According to what was reported to Imam-i  Malik, Abu Bakr, son of Muhammad, son of Amr, son of Hazm, retaliated for breaking the thigh. 
2594-) From Solomon, son of Yesar: The slave who was freed by one of the pilgrims killed the son of a man from the sons of Aiz. The deceased's father, Umar b. When he complained to Khattab, Umar b. Khattab said: He does not need a diet. Man: What would you rule if my son killed him?' When he said, Hazrat Umar said: Then you would give his diet. Then the man said, "Then it is like a snake, if you let it go it will sting, if you kill it, it will take revenge". Shaybani, 679. It is said that snakes are chia. If he killed one of them, his wife would take revenge. 
2595-) From Sahl, son of Abu Hasme: Some of the elders of my tribe informed me as follows: Abdullah and Muhayyisa, son of Sahl, went to Khaybar (to buy dates) because of the poverty they were exposed to. There, Muhayyisa was informed that Abdullah, son of Sahl, was killed and thrown into a well. He went to the Jews and said: By Allah, you killed him. They said: By Allah, we did not kill him. Then Muhayyisa returned. He came to his people (to Madinah) and informed them of the situation. Then Muhayyisa, his elder brother Huveyyisa Muhayyisa and Huveyyisa from Ansar Abdullah b. They are the sons of Mesud. Maktul Abdullah and his brother Abdurrahman are the sons of their brother Sahl. and (the victim's brother) Abdurrahman came to Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam). When Muhayyisa, who came from Khaybar, wanted to talk, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) meant his elder brother and said, "Give the elder the right to speak, so that the elder will speak." Thereupon, first Huveyyisa and then Muhayyisa spoke. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: (Jews) either pay the victim's diet or declare war on us. At that time, there was a peace agreement between the Muslims and the Jews of Khaybar, and he informed the Jews of Khaybar about this in writing. When they replied, "By Allah, we did not kill him", the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked Huveyyisa, Muhayyisa and Abdurrahman: Do you swear to earn the right to pay for your man's blood (one of the Jews killed him)?» said. Them; When he said "No", the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked: Should the Jews swear to reject your claim?' said. When they said: "Jews are not Muslims, let's believe in their oaths", the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) agreed to give the deceased's diet from his own side and sent a hundred female camels. Even the camels were taken to their house. 
Since the plaintiffs refrained from taking the oath, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked the plaintiffs whether they would offer an oath this time, which is the practice according to Shafi'i and Malikis. When the plaintiffs did not want to accept their oaths, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) paid the victim's diet from his own property or from the state treasury in order to prevent the event from prolonging any further and to prevent a conflict between the Jews and the dead owners. . We also learn here that the oaths of non-Muslims are valid. If their oaths were not valid, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would not have offered them an oath. The dead owners did not accept their oaths because of their enmity and anger towards them. says: "One of them, a red female camel, kicked me". ", Ahkam, 93/38; Muslim, 28/1, no: 6; Shaybani, 681 Malik says: The word poor in the hadith means a well. 
2596-) Bushayr, son of Yesar, told: Abdullah al-Ansari,  son of Sehl, and Muhayyisa, son of Mesud, went to Khaybar. Once there, they left to follow their business. Sahl's son Abdullah was killed. Muhayyisa came to Medina. Later, he, his brother Huveyysa and Abdurrahman, son of Sahl, came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). When Abdurrahman wanted to talk because he was the brother of the deceased, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Let the elder speak first. Thus, Huveyyisa and Muhayyisa talked and told about the murder of Abdullah, son of Sahl. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to them: Would you take fifty oaths so that the price of blood would be given to you?' They said: We did not see him killed and we were not with him. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Then, by taking fifty oaths, the Jews will be freed from your claim.” Based on this incident, Imam-i  Malik, Shafii and Ahmad b. Hanbal says that in such unsolved murder cases, fifty oaths are given to the victims' parents, that is, to the plaintiffs. Hanafis, on the other hand, said that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Bringing evidence to the plaintiff, swearing to the denier, (in another narration) to the defendant. 
belongs.» When they said, "O Messenger of Allah, how can we accept the oaths of the infidel people?" Abu Omar says: There is no opposition to Malik in the mursal of this hadith. In Sahihayn and others, Beÿir-Sahl  b. Abi Hayseme Rafi 
b. It is inherited through hadic: Bukhari, Diyat, 87/22; Muslim, Kasame, 28/1, no:2. His son Yahya says: Buseyr, son of Yesar, said, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave the victim's diet himself." 2597-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to our agreement, the thing that scholars have agreed on in the past and the new, and what I have heard from people whom I trust, is that the plaintiffs take an oath before the checkout. Kasama is only needed with one of two things: Either the victim says, (that one shot me), or the deceased's owners bring dubious evidence. If the evidence regarding the accused murderer is inconclusive, this requires plaintiffs to swear an oath against the defendant. Here, in our opinion, kasama only happens with one of these two things. Kasama is not fixed with the event of Mücerred death. There must be some doubt. The four sects are in agreement on this issue. However, it is disputed what this doubt is. According to Hanafis, it is sufficient to have a trace on the man that he was killed by others, not by his own death, and that the victim was found in the property of certain people. 2598-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, there is no conflict in the way the practice is done in the event of death claimed to have been deliberate or by mistake, and in the treatment of people by the owners of the butchery. Malik says: If the plaintiffs take an oath (in the case of willful killing), they are entitled to the blood of their dead, and those whom they have sworn against will be killed. If the murderer is not found, if the people of the district where the dead are found take the oath of fifty, then the heirs of the deceased will receive a diet. 
are obliged to give. 2599-) Only one person is killed in Kasame, two people are not killed. Fifty people from blood owners, that is, relatives of the victim, take fifty oaths. If their number is less than fifty or some of them avoid taking the oath, the others are offered an oath again and it is completed to fifty oaths. However, if one of the relatives of the deceased, who has the authority to forgive, refrains from taking an oath, then the feud is dismissed. Malik says: If one of the relatives of the deceased, who is not authorized to forgive the murderer, abstains from taking the oath, the others are made to swear again. If one of those who have the authority to pardon does not want to take an oath, the other owners of the deceased, even if it is a person, cannot be sworn in again. When the dead owners take an oath, this time the defendants are offered an oath. Fifty of them swear (that they did not kill themselves and that they do not know who killed) fifty oaths. If the defendants are less than fifty people, those who take the oath will be sworn in again. If the defendant is only one person, he takes fifty oaths and escapes. We noted earlier that, according to the Hanafis, an oath was not required for the plaintiffs. 2600-) Imam-i  Malik says: The oath in killing and the oath in other matters are different. Because when one lends money to the other, he wants to secure his right with documents and evidence. But those who want to kill someone do not do it in a community, they are in a secluded place. If there was no Kasama in a place that was not fixed with evidence, and if the safe was done as in other legal proceedings, then the blood of the dead would be wasted and wasted, and those who knew the verdict in this way would dare to shed people's blood and kill them. It was necessary to start with the owners of the murdered person in the butcher's office in order to avoid killing people and the murder suspect not to be held responsible with the word of the victim in such a situation. 2601-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a small number of people are accused of killing the victim and the dead owners offer them to take an oath, each of them takes fifty oaths on his own behalf, otherwise the fifty oaths will not be divided into their number. Malik says: This is the most beautiful thing I have heard on this subject. 2602-) Imam-i  Malik says: Kasama (to take an oath) falls to the victim's asabe (male relatives from the father's side), they are blood claimants whose oaths are retaliated with, 2603-) Imam-i  Malik says: None of the women took an oath in the case of deliberate murder. it doesn't. Even if the deceased's parents were only women, an oath is not required for them. You do not have the authority to forgive. 2604-) Imam-i  Malik says: If the asab (male relatives from the father's side) or his relatives of the man who was killed deliberately stood up and said: "We will be entitled to the blood of our death by swearing," the right will be theirs. Malik says: Even if women want to forgive, their amnesty is not valid. Asabasi and his relatives have a greater say than women in this matter. Because they are the ones who swear on the dead and deserve blood. Malik says: Even if the deceased's elder or relatives forgive after they are entitled to the blood of the deceased, if the women avoid forgiveness and say: "We will not release the murderer of our death," then the word belongs to the women. For, when the blood is fixed and retaliation is finalized, women and those who want retaliation have more rights than those who do not. 2605-) Imam-i  Malik says: In order for the plaintiffs to take an oath in deliberate murder, there must be at least two or more people who are required to take the oath. The oath is then offered to the defendant. Even if the defendant is a person, an oath is taken. Because the right will not be wasted by not making the plaintiff take an oath. However, if the defendant is not sworn in, the victim's blood will be wasted. It is repeated by these two people until the number of the oath is fifty. When they take fifty oaths, they become entitled to blood. Such is our judgment. 2606-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a group of people beat a man together until he dies, a murdered person instead, they are all killed. But if he dies after his tattoos, an oath is required. In other words, if the man is beaten by two witnesses, if he lives for a while after being beaten and dies, then there is a need to testify whether he died due to this tattoo or not. By oath, only a man is killed if you are short. More than once can not be killed. According to Hanafis, retaliation is not required as a result of kasama (oath), only diet is required. If the case is willful murder, the defendants pay the diet from their own property. If the case is a case of murder by mistake, then the diet of the defendants is given by the minds of the defendants (brothers from the father's side. (Meydanÿ, Lübâb, c.3, p. 172). 2607-) Imam-i  Malik says: Blood litigants in murder by mistake they take an oath and by their oath they are entitled to blood. They take fifty oaths. The number of their vows is in proportion to their share in the diet. When fifty oaths are distributed to the plaintiffs, the missing oath is given to the one who has the most oath in the division. Malik says: If the murdered person has no heirs other than women, they take the oath and take the diet. If there is only one male heir, he takes fifty vows and takes the diet. This provision is not in deliberate killing, but in killing by mistake. 2608-) Imam-i  Malik says: When the relatives of the murdered person (giving up the qisas) accept the diet, they inherit it according to the division that Allah has stated in his book. Daughters, sisters and other women who can be heirs of the deceased also inherit it. If the diet increases after the women get their share, then the rest will belong to the closest men together with the women. 2609-) Imam-i  Malik says; While some of the heirs of the victim 
who was killed by mistake did not have any heirs, if one of those found wanted to receive his share, he would not be able to receive it until he had made fifty oaths, and he would not be entitled to anything less or much from the diet. But if he takes fifty oaths, then he gets his share from the diet. Because blood is only fixed with fifty oaths. The diet is not stable until the blood is stable. After that, if one of those absent heirs comes, he takes an oath in proportion to the amount of inheritance from fifty oaths and gets his right from the diet. 
This work continues until all heirs receive their dietary rights. For example, if a mother and brother come, the right of inheritance is one sixth. He makes one-sixth  of his fifty oaths. The one who swears gets his right from the diet. The right to abstain from the oath is lost. If some of the heirs are absent or children who have not reached puberty, those who are ready take fifty oaths. After that, if he is absent or the child reaches puberty, each of them swears in proportion to their dietary rights and inheritance. Malik says: This is the most beautiful thing I have heard. 2610-) Imam-i  Malik says: According to us, the situation of slaves is as follows; If the slave is killed intentionally or by mistake, and then his master brings a witness (because he killed this or something), he takes the price of the murdered person after he takes an oath along with the witness. Slaves who are killed accidentally or deliberately do not have a safe (fifty oaths). I have not heard of any scholar who said that Kasama is needed. 2611-) Imam-i  Malik says: If a slave is killed intentionally or by mistake, his master does not have a vault or an oath. His master is entitled to this only by his own oath, either with two just witnesses or with one witness. Malik says: This is the most beautiful thing I have heard. As we finish the topic of Kasame, we would like to point out the following points due to its importance: Implementation of Kasama keeps the people of the neighborhood or district, which consists of certain people, more attentive or vigilant. They try to prevent the occurrence of unsolved murders in their region. The murder case within the Society is of course an extremely important one. By giving a diet to the relatives of the deceased as a result of the Kasama, this pain was alleviated relatively, and thus, their material and moral assistance would be sought. Some people may be implicated in the killing of unknown killer. With Kasama, this is also eliminated. Thus, the peace and order of the society is ensured 2612-) Enes b. From Malik (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed for the people of Madinah: "O Allah! Bless their scales. Bless you and your rulers.” Bukhari, Buyu, 34/53; Muslim, Hajj, 15/85, no: 465. 
2613-) Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) told the following: When people see the first fruit, they bring it to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Bless us with our fruits, give us abundance in our Medina, and bestow blessings on us in our Prophet (PBUH) and our Prophet. I am also your servant and prophet. He prayed to you for Mecca. I pray to you for Medina too. I demand from you the same and twice as much as he asked you for Mecca." Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would call the youngest child he saw and give him this fruit. Muslim, Hajj, 15/85, no:483. The fact that they brought the first fruit to our Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was because they wanted to receive his prayer. The prayer made by Ibrahim (alaihis-salâm)  for Mecca is mentioned in the Qur'an in the 35th-37th chapter of the chapter of Ibrahim. It is mentioned in the verses that its meaning is as follows: "Remember that time (my dear friend), Kit Ibrahim said: My Lord, make this city (Mecca-i  Mukarrama) safe. Keep me and my sons away from worshiping idols... Our Lord! I have placed some of my children (Ismail 'alaihis-salâm)  and his mother (Hagar) in a barren valley next to your holy house. O our Lord! The reason I placed them in this valley is so that they can pray directly. So make the hearts of some people incline towards them and provide for them with some fruits. 
It is hoped that they will be grateful for that.” In the last part of the sharif, we see the care and attention that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave to the children with his compassion and mercy towards them. 
2614-) Zubayr b. Avvam's freed slave, Yuhannes, told the following: “At the time of strife, Abdullah b. I was sitting next to 
Omar (radiyallahu anh). A concubine he had freed came and greeted him and said: "O Eba Abdurrahman, I want to leave 
Medina. We suffer from hunger.” when he said: Sit down, fool! Undoubtedly, I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi 
wa sallam) say: "I will certainly be an intercessor or witness on the Day of Judgment for anyone who is patient with the trials 
and tribulations of Madinah." Muslim, Hajj, 15/85, no:482. Sharif is proof that it is good and virtuous to live in Medina-i  Münevvere 
and endure the troubles and troubles there. The fact that Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) was a witness or intercessor 
for the people of Medina is explained as follows. He becomes a witness to some of the people of Medina and an intercessor to 
others. This means that he is either an intercessor for sinners, a witness to obedient ones, or a witness to those who die in his 
time of life, and an intercessor for those who die later. 

2615-) Jabir b. Abdullah narrates: “A Bedouin paid allegiance to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) to 
become a Muslim. Later, when he fell ill with malaria in Medina, he came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) 
and said: O Messenger of Allah! Break my allegiance. (Let me leave Medina)" he said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be 
upon him) did not accept it. Then he came back and said: Break my allegiance. When Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) 
did not accept it again, the Bedouin came again and said: Break my allegiance. This time, when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 
did not accept his request, the Bedouin left. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Undoubtedly, 
the city of Medina is like a blacksmith's bellows. (Just as the bellows removes the dirt and rust on the iron) The city of Medina 
also throws away the bad ones. The good ones stay there," he said. Bukhari, Ahkam, 93/47; Muslim, Hajj, 15/88, no:489; 
Shaybani, 89. 
2616-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: My 
Lord has ordered me to migrate to a city that will prevail over all other cities. People call it Yathrib, its name is Medina. Just as 
the bellows removes the rust of the iron, Madina also destroys the bad people and throws them out.” Bukhari, Fedâilu'l-Medina,  
29/2; Muslim, Hajj, 15/88, no:488. 
2617-) From Urwa: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Allah will bring better people in place of someone who leaves 
Madinah because he dislikes it and does not want his reward." 
2618-) From Sufyan, son of Abu Zuhayr: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Yemen will be conquered. A group of 
people from Medina will take their families and their subjects and migrate to Yemen. 
However, if they only knew, Madinah is better for them. Damascus will also be conquered. At that time, a group of people from 
Medina will take their families and those who follow them and migrate to Damascus. However, if they only knew, Madinah is 
better for them. Iraq will also be conquered. At that time, a group of people from Medina will take their families and those who 
suit them and emigrate to Iraq. Medina is better for them if they only knew.” Bukhari, Fedâilu'l-Medina,  29/5; Muslim, Hajj, 15/90, 
no:497. We see a few miracles of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the hadith: It is informed that Yemen, Damascus and Iraq 
will be conquered. He really conquered them in accordance with the order indicated. Yemen was conquered during the time of 
the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the others later. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) informed that some of 
his companions would leave Madinah and migrate to there, which also came true. It has been reported that it would be better 
for them to stay in Madinah. Many strife and turmoil occurred after Medina was abandoned. 

2619-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Medina will be left in its most beautiful state. 
Even the dog and the wolf will enter the mosque and fit (pee) on some pillars of the mosque or on the pulpit.» He said: O 
Messenger of Allah, whose fruits will be then?' they said. There will be birds and beasts of prey seeking their sustenance.” 
Bukhari, Fedâilu'l-Medina,  29/5; Muslim, Hajj, 15/91, no:499. According to Iyad, Medina fell into this state in the first century of 
Islam. Medina-i  Münevvere, which used to be the center of Islam, the shelter of the Companions and the followers, the most 
prosperous and civilized city of Muslims, was then left in this most beautiful state and the center of the Caliphate was transferred 
to Damascus and Iraq (first to Kufa, then to Baghdad). . 
The states described in the hadiths of our Prophet (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) occurred as miracles. According to Imam 
Nawawi, Medina-i  Münevvere will fall into this state at a time when the Doomsday is approaching. 2620-) Imam-i  Malik was 
reported as follows: Umar b. When Abdulaziz was going out of Medina, he turned to him and wept, then called out to his 
friend who was with him: O Muzahim! Are you afraid that we will become those whom Madinah did not shelter and drive 
out?” said. 

2621-) Enes b. From Malik: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw Mount Uhud, he said: "This is such a mountain that we 
love it and it loves us. my god! Just as Abraham made Mecca a harem (sacred), so I am making Medina a harem between two 
black stony stones.» 
2622-) Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) used to say: "If I see gazelles in Madina, I would not frighten them. Because the 
Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Medina is a harem between two black stones (it is sacred. 
Nothing and no one can be raped)". Bukhari, Fedailul-Medina,  29/ In this region, which was protected from attack and prohibited, 
it was forbidden to do some work that was done in other normal places. 

Like cutting down trees there, plucking grass, hunting animals. This region is the region between Mount Ayir and Mount 
Uhud around Medina. Although this is the rule according to the three sects, according to Hanafis, there is no harem in 
Medina, as in Mecca. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Medina is a Harem" in order to preserve 
the beauty and sanctity of Medina. We think it is unnecessary to explain how important the grass, trees and surrounding 
animals are for the beauty of the city in terms of civilized urbanism and the environment. 
2623-) He said from Abu Ayyub al-Ansari  (radiyallahu anh): "When I saw a group of children trying to hunt a fox in a 
corner of Medina, I chased them away and saved the fox." Imam-i  Malik says: Abu Ayyub al-Ansari  to the children: Is 
this done in the harem of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)? he said. 2624-) According to what is 
reported to Imam-i  Malik, a man said: "While I was hunting a bird in the Esvaf region of Medina, Zayd b. Steady came to 
me and took the bird from my hand and set it free.” 
2625-) Hadrat Aisha (radiyallahu anh), mother of the believers, told the following: When the Messenger of Allah (sall-
Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) arrived in Medina, Abu Bakr and Bilal (radiy-Allâhu  anh) fell ill with malaria. I'm going to visit 
them, Daddy! How do you feel? O Bilal, how do you find yourself?” said. When Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) got sick with 
malaria, he used to say this couplet: He is happy at home. closer to it than a clog strap.” When the Abyssinian (radiyallahu 
anh) had a fit of malaria, he would say loudly: If I knew: Will I be able to spend the night in the valley of Makki among the 
fragrant soft grass? Will I be able to reach the waters of Mecenne? Will I be able to see the mountains of Shame and 
Tafil?” Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh) says: When I came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) and told him 
about this, he prayed: “O Lord! Make us love Medina more than Mecca. Save him from the plague. Bless us with your 
scales. Take Madina's malaria to Juhfa." Bukhari, Menâkÿbu'l-Ansâr,  63/46; Muslim, Hajj, 15/86, no:480. Juhfa is a village 
82 miles from Mecca. 

2626-) Hadrat Aisha (radiyallahu anh) says that Amir b. Fuhayra said: “I felt the violence of death before I tasted it. 
The death of a coward descends upon him (from an unexpected direction).” There is a discontinuity in the hadith. because 
Yahya did not see Hazrat Aisha. 
2627-) From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "There are angels at the gates of 
Madinah. The plague epidemic and the Antichrist cannot enter there.» Bukhari, Fedâilu'l-medine,  29/9; Muslim, Hajj, 
15/87, no:485. We would like to record the following two hadiths in Bukhari, which clarified the hadith a little, with the 
belief that it would be useful: «Anas b. From Malik (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa 
sallam) said: "There will be no town left that the Dajjal (armies) does not trample, except Mecca and Medina. Pure angels 
guard all the entrances of Medina. Then Medina was shaken three times with its people. Allahu ta'ala will expel the 
disbelievers and hypocrites in Madinah, and they will join the Dajjal's army. (Bukhari, Kitab al-Madine,  b. La Yehulud-Dajjal  
al-Madineta)  "In the hadith, where Abu Said al-Hudri  (radiyallahu anh) told us about Dajjal at length, he said: He will come 
(to Madinah). But he will not have the chance to enter Madinah. But it will land on some barren land around Medina. On 
that day, one of the good people opposes the Dajjal and says: I testify that you are the Dajjal whom the Messenger of Allah 
(pbuh) told us with a hadith. Thereupon, the Antichrist (to his companions around him): "Now, if I kill this man and then 
resurrect him, would you doubt me?" says. 

When they say "No", the Antichrist will kill this man and then resurrect him. Upon this, the person who died and was 
resurrected said: "By Allah, my belief in your being Dajjal has now become stronger than before," said Dajjal: "Kill him 
now." But he cannot do anything to him or kill him” (Bukhari, specified place.) 
2628-) From Ismail, son of Abu Hakim: Omar b. I heard Abdulaziz say: The last words of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 
'alayhi wa sallam) (before his death) were: "May Allah curse the Jews and the Christians. They took the graves of their 
Prophets as mosques. Two religions will not stay together in the Arab land.” Murseldir. 
It is derived from Hazrat Aisha in Sahihayn: Bukhari, Cenaiz, 23/62; Muslim, Mesacid, 5/3, no:19. 2629-) 
From Ibn Shihab: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "Two religions will not coexist in the Arabian peninsula." 
Shihab says: Umar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) researched this hadith. When he understood the Prophet's (sall-
Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) command: "Two religions will not coexist in the Arabian peninsula", he expelled the Jews from 
Khaybar. Mursel. It is descended from Ibn Abbas in the Sahihayn: Bukhari, jizyah, 58/6; Muslim, 2630-) Imam-i  Malik says: 
Omar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) expelled the Jews from Najran and Fedek. 

As for the Khaybar Jews, they left Khaybar, leaving their dates and lands. Half of the dates and lands of the 
Fadak Jews belonged to them. Because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made an agreement with them that half of their 
land and dates would be left to them. Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) paid the price of their land and gardens in gold, 
silver, camel, rope and saddle and exiled them from Fedek. Khyber is a beautiful place in the north-east  of Madinah, 
famous for its palm groves, gardens and forts. During the time of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), Khaybar had 
been the center of the Jews and a place of mischief and corruption. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted to come to 
terms with them. However, these 

They were working against the Muslims by collaborating with the polytheists. For this reason, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) besieged Khaybar in the month of Muharram, the 7th year of the Hijra. After the fierce battle, the Khyber fortress was captured. The Jews applied to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) and stated that they wanted to work on their land as sidekicks. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) also accepted. In this regard, the Messenger Ekrem (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam), the crop season every year, Abdullah b. He would send Rawaha to Khaybar, and he would divide the crop in two, leave half to the Jews, and send half to Medina. It was a Jewish town, two days' drive from Medina, with running waters and beautiful palm groves. During the siege of Khaybar, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent invitees to them and invited them to Islam. However, they sent their chiefs and declared that they wanted to hand over their lands to the Messenger of Allah and work as a farmer. Their wishes were granted. on the other hand, it is a place in the direction of Yemen. Christians and Jews lived here. The discussion between the Messenger of God and a delegation of 60 people coming from here takes place in the first verses of Surah Ali Imran. The Jews did not rest in peace after the death of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) from this mortal realm. The first caliph, Hazrat Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh), did not engage in other secondary affairs, as he was busy suppressing irtidad (reversion from religion) and rebellion and consolidating the unity of the state. Hazrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) took into account the last will of our Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) that religions other than Islam would not be inhabited in the Arabian peninsula, and he expelled Jews and Christians from there by giving them the value of their lands and orchards. For information, see Sahih-i  Buhari, Concise Tecrid-i  Sarih Translation c. 10, p. 282, 383 and c. 7, p. 166-167). 
2631-) Hisham's father, Urwa (radiy-Allâhu  anh), said: When Mount Uhud appeared to Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam), he said: “This is a mountain that loves us and we love too.” According to all of Malik's narrators, 
he is mursal. 2632-) From Abdurrahman, son of Kasÿm: Ömer b. Eslem, the freed slave of Khattab (radiyallahu anh), told me the following: On the way to Mecca, Abdullah b. When I visited Ayyaÿ, when I saw nebÿz (date and grape sherbet) next to him, he said: Omar b. I said, "Khattab (radiyallahu anh) loves it very much". Thereupon, Abdullah b. The drunkard was brought to Ömer b. He put it in front of Khattab. Hadrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) brought the glass close to his mouth, then raised his head and said: This is a good sherbet. Then he drank some of it and gave the remainder to a man on his right. Meanwhile, when Abdullah started to leave, Umar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) called out to him: Do you say, of course, that Mecca is better than Medina?' said. Abdullah also said: Mecca is the place where Allah has made the harem safe. When he said, "The Beytullah is there," Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said, "I am not saying anything about the Baytullah or its harem," and then continued: "Do you say that Mecca is better than Medina?" said. Abdullah also said: Mecca is Allah's Haram and the place He has made safe. Baytullah is also there," he said. Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) said again: I am not saying anything about the Harem and house of Allah,' then Abdullah turned and left. 2633-) Abdullah b. From Abbas (radiyallahu anh): Umar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) went to Damascus. Serg'e Serg is a town in the Tabuk valley. When he arrived at a distance of 13 mansions from Medina, the commander of the army, Abu Ubeyde b. al-Cerrah  and his friends greeted him and informed him that a plague epidemic had broken out in the land of Damascus. Thereupon, Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said, “Call the first immigrants to me.” I called too. Hadrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) informed them that the plague had occurred and consulted them. There was a conflict between them. Some of them: You're out on a mission. We don't see fit for you to come back from this," they said. When some of them said: The rest of the people and the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) are with you, we do not think it is right for you to throw the plague on them. he commanded. So I called them. Hadrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) consulted with them as well. They also differed by saying what the refugees said. 
Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said to them: “Get away from me.” Then he said: “Call me the emigrants of the conquest of Mecca and the elders of Quraysh who are here.” So I called them. None of them disagreed and they said: We are of the opinion that you should return with the men and not put them at risk of plague. Upon this, Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) called out to the people: “I will go back to Medina in the morning by riding my animal. Prepare accordingly.” Abu Ubayda (radiyallahu anh) said: Are you running away from the destiny of Allah? said. Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) replied, “O Abu Ubayda, I wish someone other than you had said this! Yes, we are running away from God's destiny to God's destiny. Once the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was walking past a wall that was about to collapse, and when he quickly passed by, he asked, O Messenger of Allah (pbuh), are you running away from Allah's accident? He said: "I seek refuge in Allah's destiny from Allah's accident". Here is the answer of Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) above, taken from this order of our Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam). Tell me: If you had camels, they would go down in a valley with two slopes. If one of these slopes were grassy and the other barren, without grass, if you grazed the camels on a grassy ground, wouldn't you be grazing with the destiny of Allah? Even if you graze in the barren ground, wouldn't you still be grazing by the destiny of Allah?' Meanwhile, Abdurrahman b. 
Awf (radiyallahu anh) came and said: I have knowledge on this matter. I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "If you hear about the plague in a place, do not go there. If there is a plague in a place and you are there, do not leave the place by escaping from the plague.” Upon this, Hazrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) praised Allah and returned to Medina. Bukhari, Tib, 76/30; Muslim, Selam, 39/32, no:98. 2634-) Amir's father, Sa'd b. Ebî Vakkas (radiy-Allâhu  anh) narrated: Usama b. To Zayd (radiyallahu anh): What did you hear from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about his illness?» When I asked him: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied, "Plague is a torment sent to a group of Jews or a nation that lived before you. If you hear that this disease is emerging in a place, do not enter there. If this disease occurs in a place where you are, do not escape from the disease and leave the place.» Bukhari, Anbiya, 60/34; Muslim, Salam, 39/32, no:92. said. says: Abu'n-Nadr said, "Only escape will take you out of there." 2635-) Abdullah, son of Amir, son of Rabia: Omar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) went to Damascus. Arriving in Serg, he was informed that there was a plague epidemic in Damascus. Thereupon, Abdurrahman b. Awf (radiyallahu anh) reported to Hadrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: If you hear that there is a plague epidemic in a place, do not go there. If there is a plague in a place where you are, we will not escape from it.” Thereupon, Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) returned from Serg. Bukhari, Tib, 76/30; Muslim, Salam, 39/32, no.100. This terrible plague epidemic, which invaded Egypt and Iraq, started in the 17th year of Hijri and continued for months. When the news of this epidemic came, Hadrat Omar (radiyallahu anh) departed from Medina to investigate the incident on the spot, and when Serge arrived, he returned to Medina for the reasons mentioned above. After a while, Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) called the Emir of Syria, Abu, for a job, but Abu Ubayda replied: “Allah's destiny does not change. If my death is destined, I will die wherever I am. I will not leave the Islamic army and move to a safe place alone. 
Let it be known.” When Hazrat Umar read this letter, his eyes filled with tears. In this epidemic, 25 thousand people died, including Abu Ubayda and some of the elders of the Companions. (For more information, see Shibli, Asr-ÿ  bliss, Vol.4, 
p. 291 ff.) According to the hadith, if an epidemic such as plague or cholera occurs in a place, we are ordered not to enter there. To enter such a place is to knowingly endanger ourselves. Our Almighty Lord commands in the 195th verse of al-Baqara sura, "Do not put your lives in danger with your own hands". Scholars have made different explanations for the part of the hadith about going to another place if we are in a place where the plague occurs. In any case, the reason for this must be the possibility of transmitting the disease to people in other places. This is the quarantine method applied by modern medicine today. 2636-) Salim b. Abdillah says: Umar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) with his army from Serg to Abdurrahman b. He returned because of the hadith narrated by Awf (radiyallahu anh). 2637-) Imam-i  Malik'e Omar b. It was narrated that Khattab (radiyallahu anh) said: Undoubtedly, al-Bâci  in Rukba says: Ruqba is between Mecca and Iraq and is the place of the sons of Amir. Ibn Abdulbar said that Taif is also a valley. One house is better for me than ten in Damascus.” Malik says: With this word, Hazrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) wants to say that it is better to live healthy in the valley than to catch a severe plague in Damascus. 
2638-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Adam and Musa had a debate, but Adam prevailed over Musa. Moses said to Adam: Are you the Adam who made people go astray and drove them out of Paradise?' said. Adam said to him: Are you Moses, to whom God gave the knowledge of all things, and whom he chose over people with his prophethood? said. Moses: Yes.” When Adam said, "Are you blaming me for what was ordained for me before I was created?" said. Muslim, destiny, 46/2, no:14. 2639-) Muslim, son of Yesar from the tribe of Juhen, narrates: Omar b. He said to Khattab (radiy-Allâhu  anh): “My Lord has brought forth the descendants of the sons of Adam from their loins; Am I not your Lord? and they had witnessed it. They said: Yes: (You are our Lord) we have witnessed this. (This is the confession) so that you would not say on the Day of Judgment, "We did not know about this". When I was asked about the meaning of the 172nd verse of A'raf, I heard: (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam). When he was asked about the meaning of this verse, he said: “Verily, Allahu ta'ala created Adam. Then he patted his back with his mighty hand and took his offspring out of him and said, "I have created them for Paradise, they will do the deeds of the inhabitants of Paradise." “Then he touched Adam's back again and produced another generation from him and said, “I have created them for hell. They will do the deeds of the people of Hell.” Thereupon, a man said: O Messenger of Allah! Then what is the use of action?” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: No doubt, when Allah creates a servant in Paradise, He makes him do the deeds of the people of Paradise until he dies. That's why he puts him in heaven. When a servant is created for Hell, he makes him do the deeds of the people of Hell until he dies. That's why it puts him in hell." Abu Dawud, Sunnah, 39/16; Tirmidhi, Tafsir, 44/7, no:2. 2640-) The following was reported to Imam-i  Malik: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I am leaving you two things. 
As long as you hold fast to them, you will never go astray. These are the Book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Prophet.” he ordered. 
2641-) From Tawus al-Yemani:  "I caught up with some people from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). They are all by fate.” they were saying. b. I heard Umar (radiyallahu anh) say: "The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Everything is by destiny. Even weakness and intelligence.” Muslim, Kader, 46/40, no:18. 
2642-) Amr b. From Dinar: Abdullah b. I heard Zubayr (radiyallahu anh) say in his sermon: "It is Allah who guides and misleads." 2643-) From Abu Suhayl, son of Ibn Malik, uncle of Imam-i  Malik: Ömer b. I was going with Abdulaziz. Tell me what is your opinion about that qadariyye group?” He said: My view is that you invite them to repentance. I said, "If they repent, you will put them to the sword." Umar b. Abdulaziz said: This is my view as well. Malik says: This is my opinion as well. 
2644-) From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam):. “A woman should not want her sister's divorce in order to marry herself. Because whatever is ordained for him becomes what he is.” he commanded. Bukhari, Destiny, 82/4. 2645-) Muhammad al-Kurazi,  son of Ka'b, told: Muawiya b. Abi Sufyan addressed the pulpit: O people! Nothing can stop what God has given. No one can give what God does not give. No one's strength will be of any use to a strong person in the face of Allah's power. Whoever Allah wishes good for, He gives deep understanding in religion.” Then Muawiya said: "I heard these words from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on this pulpit." 2646-) According to what was reported to Imam-i  Malik, it was said: "Praise be to Allah, Who has created everything as it should, and nothing exceeds its appointed time. God is enough for me. God hears those who pray. There is no station to pray to but Allah.” 2647-) It was narrated that it was said to Imam-i  Malik: No one dies before completing his sustenance. Then seek your sustenance in a halal way. It came from Jabir as mana merfu: Ibn Mace Tijarat, 12/2. 2648-) From Imam-i  Malik; Muaz b. Cebel (radiyallahu anh): (on his way as governor of Yemen) "When I put my foot in the stirrup, the last advice of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to me was: O Muadh b. Cebel! Beautify your morals for the people.” This is one of the four hadiths that are not found in any other muwatta. Sufyan b. This situation does not harm Malik, about whom Uyeyna said the following: The hadith narrated by Malik with the word Belag is a sound hadith. When he says "Belaganî" (he came to me), it is a sahih isnad. The fact that the latter did not see that this hadith is authentic does not harm him. Maybe it's in the books that didn't reach them. 
2649-) Hadrat Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh), the wife of our Master the Prophet, said: “When the Messenger of Allah 
(pbuh) was left free between two things, as long as it was not a sin, he would take the easiest one. If it was a sin, 
people would be the most distant from it. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not take revenge on anyone for his own 
sake. But if the things that God had made holy were violated, then he would avenge them for God's sake.” Bukhari, 
Menakib, 61/23; Muslim, Fedail, 43/20, no:77. 
2650-) Ali b. Husayn b. Ali b. From Abu Talib: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is one 
of the beauties of being a Muslim to abandon things that do not concern him." According to Malik's narrators, it is 
mursal. it is hasan, even authentic. It has been reported in the Zühri-Abu  Salama-Abu  Hurayra deed: Tirmidhi, Zuhd, 34/11; 
Ibn Mace, Fitan, 36/12; Shaybani, 949. 
2651-) From Hadrat Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh), the wife of our Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): While I was with the 
Messenger of Allah (pbuh), a man asked permission to enter his presence. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa 
sallam) said: "He is the worst son of the tribe." Then she let him. Not long after, I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 
laughing with him. When the man came out: Messenger of Allah! You just said you were going to say about that man. 
Then, after a while, I said, "You laughed with him." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The worst of people is the one 
from whom people are protected because of their evil." Sufyan b. Uyeyne -Muhammed b. Reported by Munkedir -Urve -
Aisha: Bukhari, Adab, 78/8; Muslim, Adab, 45/22, no:73. 

2652-) Ka'b al-Ahbar  used to say: "If you like to learn the value of a person in the sight of Allah, look at the beautiful praise that follows him after his death." 2653-) Yahya b. Said said: It has been reported to me that: "A person with the beauty of his morals rises to the level of a person who prays at night and becomes dehydrated by fasting in severe heat." Abu Dawud, 40/7 2654-) Yahya b. From Said: Said b. I heard Musayyeb: "Shall I inform you of something better than praying and giving alms?" said. Yes, let me know.” they said. It is to reconcile two people and reconcile the offended. Also, avoid being too angry. Because it destroys the root (good habits)” he said. It is available to all of Malik's 
narrators. 2655-) It was narrated to Imam-i  Malik that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I was sent to complete good morals." Ibn Abdilber says: He is sound-muttasi  from Abu Hurayra and others in various ways. 
2656-) Zayd, son of Talha, son of Rekane, attributed the following to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): “Every religion has its morals. The morality of Islam is also haya.” Ibn Abdilber says: Most of Malik's narrators narrate it as mursal. Shaybani, 950. 
2657-) Abdullah b. Umar narrated: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to a man who blamed his brother for his shyness, he said: Leave him alone. Because life is from faith.” he commanded. Bukhari, îman, 2/16; Muslim, Faith, 1/12, no:59. Shaybani, 950. 
2658-) From Humayd, son of Abdurrahman, son of Awf: A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! Teach me a few words (advice) that I will apply to my life. When he said, "Don't say a lot that I will forget," the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not be angry at anything." he commanded. According to the majority, it is mursel. Bukhari, Adab, 78/76. 2659-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): He is not one who beats (others in the wrestling arenas). The real wrestler is the one who has self-control  in the moment of anger”. Bukhari, Edeb, 78/76; Muslim, Birr, 45/30; no:107 2660-) From Abu Ayyub al-Ansari  (radiyallahu anh); Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is not lawful for a Muslim to abandon his brother in religion for more than three days and become offended. When they meet, one turns his face to one side and the other to the other. The best of them is the one who first makes peace by saluting.” 
Muslim, 2661-) Enes b. From Malik (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not hate each other, do not envy each other, and do not turn your back on each other. O servants of Allah, be brothers with one another. It is not lawful for a Muslim to leave his brother in religion for more than three days and become offended." he commanded. Bukhari, Edeb, 78/62; Muslim, Bir, 45/7, no:23. Malik says: "Tadabir" in the hadith means turning away from one's Muslim brother. With a translator from him. 2662-) From Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Beware of false accusations (insulting Muslims). For, hypocrisy is the most false of words. Do not search for each other's hidden state and fault. Do not compete in evil, do not envy each other, do not hate each other, do not turn your back on each other. O servants of Allah, be brothers.” Bukhari, Edeb, 78/58; Muslim, Bir, 45/9, no:28. 2663-) From Ata Abdullah al-Khorasani,  son of Abu Muslim: Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): “Shake hands, the hatred between you will go away. Give each other gifts so that you can make love and the enmity between you will disappear”. Ibn Abdilber says: This hadith is valid in various ways and all of them are from the hips. Every Muslim who does not associate anything with Allah will be forgiven. However, the enmity between him and his (religious) brother is unforgivable. It is said to wait until these two people come to an agreement, wait until they are reconciled.” Muslim, Bir, 45/11, no:34. 
2665-) Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh) said: "The deeds of people are presented to Allah twice a week, on Monday and Thursday. Every believer is forgiven. However, the enmity between him and his (religious) brother is unforgivable. Leave these two people until they return from their enmity; It is said to wait until these two people return from their enmity and reconcile.” Muslim, Bir, 45/11, no:36. 
2666-) Jabir b. Abdullah al-Ansari  (radiyallahu anh) told the following: We went on the Bani Enmar expedition with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). I stayed under a tree. At that time, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came: O Messenger of Allah! said. He came too. I looked at our sack (where we put supplies) and looked for something (to eat). I found a small acur there. When I chopped it up and presented it to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): Where did you get this?' he commanded. We brought it from Medina, O Messenger of Allah!» said. At that time, we had a friend with us that we prepared to go to graze our animals. I prepared it. He went to herd the animals with two worn-out  cardigans on. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) looked at him and said: Doesn't this man have other clothes than these?' said. Me: Yes, there are spare clothes in the saddlebag, O Messenger of Allah!» said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Then call him and tell him to put on his good clothes". 
So I called him. He put on his clothes, then turned and left. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: What happens when he hits his neck (he wears the old clothes while he has a new one). Isn't that better for him?" said. The man who went to graze heard this and said: O Messenger of Allah! Is it also in jihad in the way of Allah?” When he said, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (It is nice for him to put on his new clothes)!” he commanded. He was martyred in the war. 2667-) According to what is reported to Imam-i  Malik, Umar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) said: "Indeed, I like to look at the white-robed  hafiz (reader of the Qur'an)." 2668-) From Ibn Sirin: Omar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) said: “When Allah gives you plenty, take care of yourself (wear clean). Everyone should pay attention to their clothes.” This is Buhari's, Hammad b. Zayd -Ayyub -Muhammed b. Shirin -It is a part of the hadith that came with Abu Hurayra's deed: Bukhari, Salat, 8/9. It is obligatory for every Muslim to wear clothes that cover his private parts and protect his body from heat and cold. every Muslim 
As in the matter, he should keep the middle way in wearing clothes. Her dress should not be extremely bad, mean, or extremely luxurious, but between the two. Because the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Simplicity in clothing is from faith". It is mustahab for him to wear very beautiful clothes to indicate the blessing Allah has given him. Because the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Be kind to your own soul, just as Allahu ta’âlâ has favored and bestowed upon you”, “Allah likes to see the sign of His bounty on his servant”. Beautiful and clean clothes should be worn, especially on important days and meetings such as Fridays and holidays. Almighty Allah has said in the 31st and 32nd verses of the chapter of Araf: "O sons of Adam! Go to every mosque wearing your beautiful clothes, eat and drink, but do not waste. Because Allah does not like the wasteful. Say: Who has forbidden the adornment, clean and pleasant sustenance that Allah has created for His servants? Say: It (they) are for those who believe in the life of this world. And the Day of Judgment is for them only.” The following is stated in the 26th verse of the same surah: Sons of Adam! We have sent down for you a garment that covers your private parts and adorns you. The garment of piety is better.” Therefore, the purpose of wearing clothes is not just to cover the body. It should also fit the body. In a hadith narrated by Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), a well-dressed  Companion came to the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Rasûlullah! I am a beauty lover. I have been given the beauty you see. 
I don't want anyone to surpass me even in the beauty of my shoelace, is that arrogance?' He said, The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "No, this is not arrogance. Arrogance is denying the truth out of selfishness and making people look small.” he commanded. Abu Dawud, K. el-Libas,  B. macâe fu-Kibri. 2669-) From Nafi: «Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) used to wear a dress dyed with red soil and victory.” 2670-) Yahya says, I heard Imam-i  Malik say: "I find it makruh for boys to wear gold. Bukhari, Libas, 77/45; Muslim, Libas, 37/11, no:51. It was reported to me that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade wearing gold rings. For this reason, I find it distasteful for men to wear gold, as well as for older ones.” 2671-) Imam-i  Malik says: I deem it haram for men to make quilt covers (bed sheets) and dresses from red fabric at home and outside. But I think other colors are better.” Imam-i  Malik does not like red clothes and chadors. Psychologists have also reached the following conclusion in their research on color: Looking at the color red too much makes people nervous. Therefore, nervous tempered and nervous patients should avoid using red colors, painting their bedrooms red and using red lampshades. dress of Abdullah b. He narrated that he dressed Zubayr. 
2673-) The mother of Alkame, son of Abu Alkame, told the following: "When Abdurrahman's daughter Hafsa (showing her hair) came in with a thin head covering, next to Hadrat Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh), the wife of our Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), He tore off the thin veil and made Hafsa wear a thick veil.» 2674-) From Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh): "Women who wear thin clothes that show their bodies and walk swaying cannot enter Paradise, nor can they smell their scent. However, the scent of Paradise can be smelled from a distance of five hundred years.” Yahya and Abdullah b. Malik's narrators, except for Nafi, narrate mawkuf in this way. Cerir -Süheyl b. It is narrated with the deed of Abu Salih -his father-Abu  Hurayra: Muslim, Libas, 37/34, no: 125. 2675-) From Ibn Shihab: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got up one night and looked at the horizon: "Many treasures have been opened tonight. , how many strife occurred. There are many clothed women in the world who will be naked in the Hereafter. Raise the ladies to prayer” he said. Mursel. In Bukhari (Ilm, 3/40), it is inherited through Ma'mer -Zuhri-Hind bintu al-Haris  -Ummu Salama. 2676-) Abdullah b. From Omar (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Allah will not look at a person who drags his clothes on the ground in his arrogance, on the Day of Judgment (and will not forgive him)". 2677-) From Abu Huraira: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: On the Day of Judgment, the Exalted will not look (with the eye of mercy) on a person who drags his skirts on the ground in arrogance.' he commanded. Bukhari, Libas, 77/5. 2678-) Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "On the Day of Judgment, the Exalted will not look at anyone who drags his skirt on the ground in arrogance." Bukhari, Libas, 77/1; Muslim, Libas, 37/9, no:42. 2679-) Ala narrated the following from his father Abdurrahman: When I asked Abu Said al-Khudri  how long his skirts should be long, I will give you the right answer that I know. I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "A believing man's skirts should go halfway down his legs. There is no sin on him when he reaches up to his heels. What is below the heels is in hell. On the Day of Judgment, Allah will not look (with the eye of mercy) on a person who drags his skirt on the ground arrogantly. he commanded. Abu Dawud, Libas, 31/27; Muslim, Libas, 32/7. It is makruh for men to extend their skirts or trousers to the ground. Especially if this situation is due to arrogance, it is haram. Because the lengthening of the skirts will be wasteful, contrary to cleanliness, and prevent normal movement. 
2680-) Safiyya, daughter of Abu Ubayda, told the following: When Salama (radiy-Allâhu  anha) mentions the dress (izar): O Messenger of Allah! How long will the woman stretch her dress?” said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It will take one hand longer.” he commanded. Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha) said: Then (when the woman is walking) her legs will be visible. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Then, it will lengthen one because (approximately 50 cm), there is no need for more." Abu Dawud, Libas, 31/37. In the hadiths, it was recommended that the clothes worn by men should be shorter than their height. In this hadith, it is said that women's dresses should be long. The situation of women is different from that of men. In men, the private part is between the kneecap and the navel. It is fard to close this place. The rest may vary according to customs and traditions. On the other hand, women's entire bodies are their private parts, and they must be covered. In the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), some women used to walk barefoot due to the custom and economic situation of that time. For this reason, it was ordered that their skirts should be extended so that their feet would not open while walking. Today, the situation is different. Skirts do not have to be crawled on the floor, as the closed shoes and socks worn by women cover their feet. 2681-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "None of you should walk with one shoe, either wear both or take both off, and walk barefoot." Bukhari, Libas, 77/40; Muslim, Libas, 37/19, no:68. 
2682-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you wears shoes, he should put on his right foot first, and when taking it off, he should take off his left shoe first. Let the right shoe be the first to be worn and the left shoe to be taken off first.” Bukhari, Libas, 77/39. 2683-) Suhayl's father, Malik, narrated from Ka'b al-Ahbar:  When a man took off his shoes, Ka'b al-Ahbar  said: Why did you take off your shoes? I think: «(O Moses!) Come on, take off your shoes, Because you are in the holy valley, Tuva (You are in Turi Sinada)" You have interpreted verse 12 of Taha.» Then he said to the man: Do you know what Moses' shoes were?' said. Malik says: I don't know what the man answered. He said, "Moses' shoes were made of donkey skin." 
2684-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade wearing two kinds of clothes and two kinds of selling. (These are) selling through exchanges and mulamasses, wearing a robe without panties, sitting with knees straight, showing his private parts, and wearing a dress that covers one side of his body and leaves the other side open.» Bukhari, Libas, 77/21. and mulamese were among the forms of commerce in the period of ignorance. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade this kind of shopping. When the customer touches the thing rolled up or in the dark, he should definitely take it. When he saw the property, he would no longer have the right to return it. On the other hand, the seller tossed the sold item onto the customer, thus making the sale final even if the customer did not consent. 
2685-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): My father Umar b. When Khattab saw a caftan made of silk cloth for sale at the door of the mosque: Messenger of Allah! You should take this robe and wear it on Fridays and when ambassadors come to you.” said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Only those who have no share in the Hereafter wear it". Afterwards, when he came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) in silk caftans, Umar b. He gave a caftan to Khattab (radiyallahu anh). Hadrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: O Messenger of Allah! Did you give it to me? However, you Utarid's Utarid is a person who came to Madina with the envoy of the sons of Tamim and became a Muslim, and he is the person who brought the silk caftan mentioned at the beginning of the hadith to be sold at the door of the mosque. What did you say about her dress?” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I did not give it to you for the one who wears it.” he commanded. Umar (radiyallahu anh) gave this dress to his polytheist brother in Mecca. Bukhari, Friday, 11/7; Muslim, Libas, 37/2, no:6; Shaybani, 
870. 2686-) Enes b. Malik says: Umar b. When Khattab (radiyallahu anh) was the Caliph, I saw him in Medina, he had sewn three stitches attached to each other on the tear of his robe between his two shoulders. 2687-) Enes b. Malik, describing the characteristics of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), says: The height of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) was neither too tall nor too short. His skin color was neither too (lime) white nor too dark. His hair was neither too curly (like the Abyssinian hair) nor too straight. When he was forty years old, Allah sent him as a Prophet. He lived in Mecca for ten years and in Medina for ten years. Before the white hairs in his hair and beard reached the age of twenty, and when he reached the age of sixty, Allah (swt) took the soul of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Buhari, Menakÿ, 61/23; Muslim, Fedail, 43/31, no:113; In the opinion of the majority, the Prophet died at the age of sixty-three. Because there are expressions like this in other authentic hadiths 2688-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Tonight (in my dream) I was in the Ka'ba. I saw a dark man there. It was as if he was the most beautiful of the dark-haired  men I had ever seen. She had hair hanging down to her shoulders. It was as if this hair was the most beautiful hung over the shoulders I've ever seen. 
Water was dripping from his combed hair. He was circumambulating the Ka'ba, relying on two men and two men's shoulders. Who is this?" I asked. This is Jesus, son of Mary,' was the answer. suddenly I met a man with very curly hair (like black hair) and protruding right eye (like a grape on a bunch). Who is this?" I asked. It was answered to me: "The Messiah is the Antichrist." Bukhari, Libas, 77/68; Muslim, Faith, 1/73, no:273. 
2689-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): (The Messenger of Allah) said: "There are five human characteristics: trimming nails, trimming the mustache, plucking the hairs under the armpits, shaving the private part and being circumcised." 
These are necessities of creation and were made by previous prophets. It is present by all Muvatta narrators. Ibn Abdilbar says: It is authentic from Malik. 
2690-) Said b. Müseyyeb (radiy-Allâhu  anh) says: The first person to receive guests, to be circumcised, to cut a mustache and to see white in his hair is the first person ÿbrahim (alaihis-salâm).  When he saw that his hair was graying, he said: My God! What does this signify?» Almighty God: « The sign of Kemal, O Ibrahim.» he commanded. He said: "Increase my knowledge, O Lord." she prayed. In Sahîhayn, Zühri -Said b. al-Museyyeb  -through Abu Huraira: Bukhari, Libas, 77/63; Muslim, Taharet, 2/16, no:49. 2691-) Imam-i  Malik says: The mustache is shortened until the flesh surrounding the lip is visible. A Muslim does not cut the other parts of the mustache and leaves it alone. Shaybani, 980. 
2692-) Jabir b. Abdullah es-Salami  (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said that a person should eat with his left hand or walk (with one foot bare, on the other foot) wearing only one shoe, that covers one shoulder, leaves the other shoulder open and one arm He forbade her to wear a dress that had no place to take it off, and to sit with her feet on her thighs and cover her with a piece of clothing. Muslim, Libas, 37/20, no:70. Eating, drinking water, wearing shoes, enchanting, wearing trousers, wearing a jacket, shaving and combing the head, trimming the mustache, plucking the armpit hair, using the miswak, applying kohl, clipping nails, making wudu and ghusl, tayammum, entering the mosque It is mustahab to start from the right side for things that express adornment and cleanliness, such as getting out of the toilet, giving alms, etc. It is mustahab to start from the left when making opposites of these. The prohibition of walking with one shoe is because it is against dignity and because one of the feet is short and the leg with the shoes on will be long, it will cause difficulty in walking. It is mustahab not to do so. It is makruh to wear clothes that are thrown over the shoulders and have no place to take the hands off, as it will prevent fulfilling the need, and if the private part is visible, it will be haram. It is haram to wear the dress that is thrown over the legs by crouching, since it will cause the private parts to be seen 2693-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When one of you eats, he should eat with his right hand, and when he drinks, he should drink with his right hand. For the devil eats with his left hand and drinks with his left hand. Muslim, Esribe, 36/13, no: 105; Shaybani, 883. 
2694-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “This traveler, who goes around the people and is given a bite or two or a date or two, is not considered poor.” said: Who is the real poor, O Messenger of Allah?' He (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) replied, “The real poor is the one who does not have enough income to meet his needs, and because people do not know him, he is not given alms and does not get up and beg from people.” Bukhari, Zakat, 24/53; Muslim, Zakat, 12/34, no:101. 2695-) Ibn Bujayd al-Ansari  al-Harisi  narrated from his grandmother: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Give the poor, even if they are roasted sheep and hooves." Nasai, Zakat, 23/70. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) alluded to the scarcity and stated that it would be good to give something to the poor, even a little, and that it would not be nice to turn it away empty-handed. 
2696-) From Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A Muslim eats to fill his stomach. An unbeliever eats to fill his seven intestines.10 2697-) From Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh): An unbeliever was a guest to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered a sheep (to be brought and milked) for him. The sheep were milked; The infidel guest drank his milk. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered another sheep to be milked. The guest also drank his milk. Then another sheep. So he drank the milk of seven sheep. Then morning came and the disbeliever became a Muslim. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered a sheep (to be milked and milked) for him. He drank the sheep's milk. Then he ordered a second sheep (milk) to be brought. This sheep could not finish its milk. In this regard, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A believer drinks to fill his stomach. The seven infidels drink to fill their guts.” Muslim, Eÿribe, 36/34, no:86 2698-) From Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha), the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), the Messenger of Allah said: it fills your stomach”. 
Bukhari, Esribe, 74/28; Muslim, Libas, 37/1, no:1; Shaybani, 882. 2699-) Abu al-Musenna  al-Juheni  says: I am Marwan b. I was with the referee. When Abu Said al-Khudri  entered the merwan's wound, Marwan said to him: Have you heard that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade blowing into a drink?» she asked. Said answered him: Yes. When a man said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "O Messenger of Allah, I cannot drink in one breath," the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to him: "Take the glass away from your mouth, then breathe." he commanded. he said: "(what shall I do) if I see something resembling garbage in (the glass)?" The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: 'Let it flow'. Tirmidhi, Esribe, 24/15. 
2700-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows; Umar b. al-Khattab,  Ali b. Ebi Talib and Osman b. Affan used to drink (water) while standing. Shaybani, 881 2701-) From Ibn Shihab: Hazrat Aisha, the mother of the believers, and Sa'd b. Abi Waqqas did not see any harm in drinking water while standing. 
2702-) Abu Ca'fer al-Kari  says: Abdullah b. I saw Umar standing drinking (water). Shaybani, 880. 2703-) Amir b. From Abdullah: His father, Abdullah b. ez-Zubayr  drank (water) standing up. 2704-) Enes b. From Malik (radiyallahu anh): Milk mixed with well water was brought to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). A Bedouin was sitting on his right, and Abu Bakr was sitting on his left. He drank the milk (himself first), then gave it to the bedouin and said: Give it to your right, continue on your right.' Bukhari, Esribe, 74/81; Muslim, Esribe, 36/17, no:124; The hadith of Shaybani, 884, shows that it is sunnah to start from the right even when offering drinks. Here, as in the following hadith, the Messenger of Allah did not ask the Bedouin's permission to drink, although Abu Bakr was superior to the Bedouin in terms of virtue. Because the Bedouins were weaker in terms of faith and their faith was not yet fully mature, this action could have had a negative effect on the Bedouin. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) must have taken this fine point into account. In this hadith, mixing water into milk was done either to cool it or to increase it so that everyone could drink it. Otherwise, it does not mean that it is permissible for milk sellers to add water to milk. This is absolutely haram. While standing virtuous, giving water to a person who is lower in terms of virtue is extremely important in terms of revealing the importance of starting from the right. 
2705-) Sahl b. From Sa'd al-Ansari  (radiyallahu anh): A drink was brought to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and he drank it. There was a child on his right and old people on his left. The Messenger of Allah said to the child: will you let me give it to the old people first?» she asked. at: No! Ya Allah (I cannot allow it) O Messenger of Allah! When he said, "I will not give anyone the right to give me the drink from you." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave the drink into his hand. Bukhari, Esribe, 74/19; Muslim, Esribe, 36/17, no:127. The child in question is Ibn Abbas. The elders are also his relatives. Since Ibn Abbas was confident that he would not be adversely affected when permission was requested, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked permission from him. He also did not allow, he took his right, at this point the unmatched superior morality and adherence to the rules of the Prophet emerge. He shows the courtesy of asking permission from him by saying that he is a child, even though it is not a duty, and when he does not allow, he surrenders his right to the right without showing any negative behavior towards him. This hadith also shows that while a person is standing on the right, it cannot be given to anyone else without his permission, and it is okay to ask for permission. It also states that if there is a religious interest and otherworldly virtue, it is necessary to abandon asking for permission. 2706-) Enes b. Malik says: Abu Talha said to Umm Sulaym: I heard that the voice of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was very weak. I take that to mean he's hungry. Do you have anything to eat with you?” Suleiman replied: Yes. He took out pieces of barley bread on it. Then he took his own head covering, wrapped the bread with one side, hid the bread under my arm, and covered a part of the head covering over me like a shirt. Then he sent me to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). I took the bread sent by Umm Sulaym to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). I found him sitting in the mosque with his companions and stood next to them. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: You Abu 
Did Talha send you?” she asked. And I replied: "Yes". for?» When I asked him, I replied: "Yes". The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered his companions next to him, saying: We walked between his Companions and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) until I came to Abu Talha. When I informed Abu Talha (the situation), Abu Talha said: Umm Sulaym. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) brought his companions. We don't have enough food for them (what are we going to do?)" he said. Sulaym: Allah and His Messenger know well.” gave the answer. Talha went to meet the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came with Abu Talha and they entered the house. (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Bring what is with you, Umm Sulaym!” Umm Sulaym brought that bread. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered the bread to be chopped, and the bread was chopped. Umm Sulaym made a supplement to the bread by squeezing the bag containing oil and honey on the bread. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed by saying the words that Allah (swt) wanted him to say. Then he said: Let ten people in.' Thereupon, Abu Talha allowed ten people. Until they were full (they ate from that food), then they left. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered: Allow ten more people. Talha allowed ten people. They ate until they were full and left. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Allow ten people. Abu Talha allowed those ten people, and they ate until they were full and left. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Allow ten more people. He allowed ten more people, and they ate until they were full and left. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Take ten people in," until the entire congregation had eaten and was satisfied. Community, 
There were about seventy or eighty people. Bukhari, Et'ime, 70/11; Muslim, Eÿribe, 36/20, no: 142. The conclusions 
we can draw from the hadith are as follows: Prophets were tested by hunger and similar hardships, so that they 
could endure these hardships and increase their rewards and degrees. It is necessary to know how to endure some 
difficulties and not to put them out immediately and to hide them. As Abu Talha did, the Companions should show the 
necessary care and diligence to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). This hadith shows that it is mustahab to send gifts, 
even if the degree of the sender is high and the gift sent is small. The hadith also shows that it is mustahab for a person 
to greet his guests and walk among them. She also states that "Allah and His Messenger know well", regardless of the 
scarcity of food in her house, and that Umm Sulaym was a delicate woman who welcomed the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu  
'alaihi wa sallam) arrival with her Companions and realized that there was wisdom there. 

It is as if he wanted to say to Abu Talha: "Don't worry, if the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not have a purpose in bringing 
a large congregation, he would not have brought so many congregations." 
2707-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The food of two 
people, for three; The food of three people is enough for four.” Bukhari Et'ime, 70/11; Muslim, Esribe, 36/33, no:178. 

2708-) Jabir b. From Abdurrahman (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Lock the door, tie up your 
water skins, shut the mouth of your blood, turn off the lamp while you are lying down. Because the devil can't open the 
locked door, can't untie the rope, can't open closed containers. The mouse burns people's houses very quickly.” Muslim, 
Esribe, 36/12, no:96; In Shaybani, hadith 957, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) tells us the reasons for salvation and warns 
us in order to escape from the clutches of some evil forces. He wants us to take the precaution of any harm that may come. 
He advises that we should avoid all material and spiritual evil forces. 

2709-) From Abu Shureyh al-Ka'bî  (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: 
"Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should either speak good or remain silent. Whoever believes in Allah and 
the Last Day, let him be good to his neighbor. Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, let him honor his guest. One 
day and one night, they give him the necessary importance and host him as a guest. For three days, he is hosted by 
eating what he normally eats. What he gives after three days becomes charity. It is not permissible for the guest to stay 
long enough to inconvenience the host.” Bukhari, Edeb, 78/31; Muslim, Lukata, 31/3, no:14. 

2710-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Once, while 
walking on the road, a man got very thirsty and found a well. He went down to the well, drank the water and went out. As 
soon as he was out, he encountered a dog with its tongue sticking out of the heat, panting heavily and licking the damp 
earth from thirst. The man said (to himself) "The thirst that happened to me has also happened to this dog," and went down 
to the well and filled one of his shoes (by taking it off). Then, holding the shoe full of water in his mouth, he stepped out of 
the well and watered the dog. Therefore, Allah accepted this deed of the man and forgave his sins.” Is there any reward for 
us, O Messenger of Allah, for good deeds done to animals? Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him) said: "There is 
reward in kindness to a living animal." he commanded. Bukhari, Shurb, 42/9; Muslim, Salam, 39/41, no: 153. He said that 
animals that are helped by doing good are usually those that are not ordered to be killed. A person gains thawabs because 
of the good treatment to be done to them. This goodness is not limited to quenching the thirst of animals, as stated in the 
hadith. This includes things like feeding them. The hadith shows that water is at the beginning of gaining Allah's approval. 
righteous people advised those who have a lot of sins to do good with water in order for their sins to be forgiven. This hadith 
states that the sins of the man who watered the dog are forgiven by Allah and proves the appropriateness of the advice 
given by these people. 

2711-) Jabir b. Abdullah says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent a detachment to the seaside. 
Abu Ubayda b. He appointed the surgeon as their commander. The army consisted of three hundred men. 
I was also among them. We set off, we had covered part of the way when we were running out of food. Thereupon, Abu 
Ubayda ordered that the provisions of the whole detachment be collected, and they all gathered. All of them were dates 
as much as two groceries. Abu Ubayda made us eat it little by little every day. It went on like this until it was over. 
There was a date for each of us. Thereupon, Wahb b. Keysan says Jabire: will date satisfy hunger?” Upon my saying, 
Jabir said: "When it is exhausted, its absence will affect us more." said. We reached the sea shore. As soon as we 
arrived, we encountered a fish like a small mountain. This detachment ate this fish for eighteen days. Then Abu 
Ubayda ordered the two ribs of the fish to be sewn up. He said the bones should be crossed into bridges. Then he ordered 
a camel to be driven (to pass under these two roofed bones). The camel was driven. Then the camel passed under these 
two ribs without touching it. Bukhari, Company, 47/1; Muslim, Sayd, 34/4, no:17-21. When (radiyallahu anh) was asked 
how they managed with a date, he replied, "we would suck it like a child suckles at breast, then drink water on it and it was 
enough for us until evening that day". says: "zarib" in the hadith means small 

means mountain. 
2712-) Amr b. Sa'd b. Muadh narrated from her grandmother: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "O believing women! Let not 
one of you underestimate the gift given by his neighbor, even if it is a piece of roasted sheep (given to him). Saîdet-Makberi  in 
Sahihayn is through Abu Huraira: Bukhari, Hibe, 51/1; Muslim, Zakat, 12/29, no:90. One should not underestimate the gift given to him. 
Because a small gift is better than none at all. Here, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) exaggerated the subject in this way in order to show 
that the parties should not underestimate what they give or receive by accepting this gift and about giving a little gift. The gift increases 
the love and sincerity between them. 

2713-) Abdullah b. Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "May Allah (swt) destroy the Jews, they forbid 
the eating of tallow, they sell it and eat its money." Mursel. It is Mevsul from Abu Hurayra in Sahihayn: Bukhari, Buyu, 34/103; Muslim, 
Musâkat, 22/12, no:23. The hadith sharif indicates that it is also haram to sell something that is haram to eat. Similarly, since it is haram 
to eat pork, it is also haram to sell it and eat its money. Since it is haram to drink wine, it is also haram to sell wine and eat its money. 

2714-) The following was reported to Malik: Jesus, son of Mary, used to say: "O children of Israel! Drink pure water, eat land-grown  
green vegetables and barley bread. Avoid wheat bread. For you cannot honor his thanks.” Here, for fear of not being able to show 
gratitude, it was desired to live simply and to benefit from things that do not interfere with anyone's rights, which is in agreement with our 
zuhd and taqwa. 2715-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered the mosque, where Abu 

Bekir es-Siddik  and Omar b. He found al-Khattab  and asked them (why they were in the mosque). They replied as follows; hunger drove 
him out.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) went out with hunger.» he commanded. Together with Abu El-
Haysem b. They went to the house of et-Tayyihan  al-Ansari.  He ordered that the barley bread made at home be brought to them, and 
when he tried to slaughter a sheep for his guests, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not slaughter the sheep" and slaughtered a 
sheep. He brought them fresh water and hung on a palm tree. Then they brought this food and ate from it and drank from this water. 
Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "You will definitely be asked about this blessing you ate today, be grateful for what you 
ate." Muslim, Esribe, 36/20, no:40. 

2716-) Yahya b. From Said: Omar b. While al-Khattab  was eating bread and butter, he invited a Bedouin man. The man also started 
to eat and took the fat from the bottom of the plate into a bite of bread. Thereupon, Hazrat Umar said: “You look like someone who 
has no additives.” The man said: By Allah, I have not eaten butter for such a long time and I have not seen it being eaten. said. Upon 
this, Hazrat Umar said: I will not eat butter until it rains and the people get plenty. 

2717-) Enes b. Malik says: Umar b. In the days when al-Khattab  was the leader of the believers, he was given a sa' of dates and ate 
it up to its dried bruises. 
2718-) Abdullah b. Umar says: Umar b. Al-Khattab  was asked if the grasshopper was halal. Then he said, "I wish I could eat it even if I 
had a bowl full of it." he replied. 
2719-) Humayd b. Malik b. Huseyni says: I was sitting in his field in a place called Aqiq with Abu Huraira. A group of 
people from Medina came to Abu Hurayra on their mounts and went down to him. Abu 
Hurayra (to me): Go to my mother and tell her that your son greets you and says, 'Let's eat something.'" said. When he said what his son 
said) He placed three pieces of bread on a tray and (next to) some olive oil and salt. He also put that tray on my head, and I brought it to 
the congregation there. When he placed the tray in front of them, Abu Huraira said, "Allahu Akbar," and said: "I thank Allah, who fed us 
with bread, when we had no food other than black water and black dates." he did not eat (and they left), when they left Abu 

Hurayra said (to me): Take care of your sheep, wipe its runny noses, clean your pen, and pray next to it. Because sheep are animals 
of paradise. I swear to Allah, with whose power and will I live, that soon people will come, three or five sheep, next to their owner 
(Governor of Medina) Marvan b. It will be cuter than the referee's palace. This congregation came to Abu Hurayra to learn something 
from him. On this occasion, he offered them something to eat, but they did not eat it. 

The reason for this is that they are fasting. Although there is a license to break their fast during the feast, they preferred not to break their 
fast. 
2720-) Vehb b. From Keysan (radiyallahu anh): A meal was brought to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). 
In the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), his wife (Ummu Salama)'s son Umar b. There was a sale. 
Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said to him: Say Basmala and eat it in front of it.” he commanded. Bukhari, Et'ime, 70/3. 
The hadith sharif indicates that it is sunnah to say basmala when starting a meal and that it is mustahab to eat from a bowl while 
eating from a bowl together. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam), Umar b. 

Since he said these words to Salama in order to teach them and to accustom them to good moral values, it is also stated in the hadith that Muslims should teach such good morals, that is, Islamic moral values, to their children at every opportunity. 
means. 
2721-) Kasÿm b. Muhammad says: A man Abdullah b. He came to Abbas and said to him: I have an orphan and he has camels. May I drink the milk of your camels?” she asked. Ibn Abbas replied: If you search for your lost camels, tar their scabies, if you plug the parts of the pool where they drink water with soil, and if you water them when they come to drink, drink (their milk) provided that you do not harm your offspring and do not milk them completely.» 
2722-) Hisham b. Urwa reported from his father as follows: My father, Urve, used to pray constantly when all the food and drinks he ate and drank, including medicines, were distributed to him; Praise be to Allah, who showed us the right path, fed us and made us drink, and gave us various bounties. God is greater than anything. When you gave us blessings, we were in evil. Because of your blessings, our morning and evening were filled with goodness. We ask you to complete the blessings you have given, and we wish to help you to be grateful in return. There is no good, no god but you, except your goodness (which you give us). O God of righteous servants and O Lord of all beings. All praise is due to Allah. There is no god but Allah. Allah does as He wishes. Being strong is possible only with the help of Allah. Increase the blessings of the blessings you have given us and protect us from 
the torment of hell. 2723-) Yahya says to Imam-i  Malik -Can a woman eat with non-mahram  foreign men or with her slave?' he was asked. Imam-i  Malik replied: There is no harm in a woman's eating with any man in accordance with certain religious rules. A woman may dine with other men who dine with her husband, or with other foreign men who dine with her brother. It is makruh for a foreign man and a woman to be alone, who are not related by lineage, marriage or suckling. With the above words, Imam-i  Malik explains that it is not objectionable for a woman to have dinner with a foreign man if two conditions are met. One of these conditions is that all other private parts of the woman should be covered except for her hands and face. Secondly, there must be a relative at the table from one of his mahrams, namely father, son, brother, uncle and uncle. When these two conditions are met, the woman who is better off using the word beis should not eat with strangers. When the owner says that it is makruh for a man and a woman who are not related (non­mahram) to be alone together, he means that Allah knows it is haram. These words of Imam-i  Malik indicate that it is permissible to look at a woman's hands and face, unless it causes a fitna. Because eating is not possible without open hands and face. 
2724-) Yahya b. From Said: Umar b. al-Khattab  said: "O beware of food. For meat also produces a habit similar to the habit of wine.” With this statement, Hazrat Umar wanted to not continue to eat meat too much. If it is continued too long, it will not be easy to quit as it will become a habit. For this reason, he wanted to declare that it is mandub not to eat meat and similar blessings excessively and to comply with economics by eating cheaper meals. Otherwise, he did not mean to say that eating meat is haram. 
2725-) Yahya b. From Said: Jabir b. While Abdullah was leaving with meat loaded, Hazrat Umar b. al-Khattab  arrived and said: What is this?' she asked. Upon this, Jabir said: O commander of the believers, my soul wanted to eat meat. I bought meat for a dirham.” Hazrat Umar said: Doesn't one of you want to fill his stomach a little less in order to benefit from the leftover food for his neighbor and uncle? Did you forget to recite that verse? (Why don't you consider it?) “(It will be said to them on the Day of Judgment): You have had your share of all good and halal delicacies in your worldly life and have consumed it. (You have sinned by following your desires with them.) » Surah Ahqaf, 20. 
2726-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to wear a gold ring. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up and threw that ring away and said: "I will never wear it." he commanded. All the Companions took off their (gold) rings. Bukhari, Libas, 77/47; Shaybani, 871. 2727-) Charity b. Yesar says: Said b. I asked al-Museyyeb  if a ring could be worn, and he said to me: Put it on and inform the people that I gave a fatwa for the ring to be worn. The first hadith about the ring shows that it was permissible to wear a gold ring before, but later this provision was abolished and it was forbidden. Because if it had been haram before, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would not have worn it. In the second news, Said b. Musayyeb allowed the ring to be worn. Of course, the ring here is a silver ring, not a gold ring. There are various rumors about whether rings made of metals other than gold can be worn or not. Although some of them said based on a hadith that it was forbidden for people other than the sultan to wear rings, there was a consensus later that it was permissible to wear silver rings. It is also stated that the hadith that prohibits wearing a ring is weak. (Bâcî, el Münteka, ÿerhu Muvatta, volume 7, p. 254). 
2728-) From Abu Bashir (radiy-Allâhu  anh): —He  was with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) in one of his expeditions-The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent a messenger while people were at their resting place. 
(he commanded her to say): Let no bowstring or necklace be left on a camel's neck, let them all be cut off!' Malik says: I think these were put on to protect from eye damage. The people of ignorance used to wear such things around their camels' necks and thought that they would prevent eye damage. This is what the Messenger of God forbade. Therefore, it is not permissible to attach anything to animals or humans for this purpose. (Bk. Bâcî, el-Münteka,  c.7, p. 255). 2729-) Sahl b. Hunayfin's grandson, Muhammad b. From Abu Umama: I heard my father say: My father, Sahl b. Huney is the name of a water or a place or valley in Harrar. made a ghusl. He had taken off his robe. amir b. Rebia was also looking. Sahl was a white man with beautiful skin.” Umama continues to say that Amir b. Rebia to him: Not even the skin of virgins is as I see it today.» When he said that, Sahl collapsed to the place where he was, and his anguish and pain intensified. He said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): Sahl got sick, he will not be able to go with you.' they said. Then, when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) went to Sahl, he told him the way the Amir looked at him and what he had said.' The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said (to Âmira): Why does one of you kill his brother? You should have said God bless! Eye contact is common; perform ablution (for Sahl) for him.” said. Wudu is mentioned here, and in the following hadith, ghusl is mentioned. The explanation about this issue will be made in the next hadith. However, we would like to record the following hadith mentioned in Sunan-i  Abi Dawud: From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh): A person who had evil eyes was ordered to make wudu. Then, the person who was touched by the evil eye was washed with that water.” (Sunen-i  Abu Dawud, Vol.4, p.9, Hadith no: 3880). When Amir performed wudu for him (healing), Sahl went with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), he had no complaints and was relieved. It is mursel in appearance. Ala gets tired that Abu Umama heard this hadith from his father. In some of his sanads, Abu Umama is as follows: "My father told me that he was taking a bath". His narrations are as follows: Bukhari, 76-Tib, 36; Muslim, 39-Salam, 16, na 41. 2730-) Sahl b. From Abu Umama, son of Hunayf: Âmir b. Rabia, Sahl b. Sahl collapsed when he saw Hunayf performing a ghusl and said: "Even skins that never see the sun are not like what I see today." He came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah, Sahl b. Do you have anything to do about Hunayf? By God, he can't lift his head." they said. (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): Do you accuse anyone (who looks at him)?” when he asked: Amir b. We accuse Rehia.” they said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) called Amir and got angry and said: Why is one of you killing his brother (with eyes)? If only you had prayed for him with blessings! Now wash for him.” said. Amir also washed his face, hands, elbows and knees, heels and flanks in a bowl. Then (that water) was poured on Sahl. Sahl also recovered and went with the people there, he had no complaints. It is apparently mursel. However, this hadith was heard from his father. See also Ibn Majah, 31-Tÿb,  32. In the previous hadith, wudu and washing (ghusl) are mentioned here. However, the ghusl here is also explained with the verbs in wudu. Because, as it is known, wudu is the washing of certain organs. The scholars described the German ablution due to eye contact as follows: Water is brought in a bowl and held a little higher without being placed on the ground. 
The person who nazar takes a handful of that water, makes a mazmaza (ahr) and then pours it back into the container. Then he takes water from there and washes his face once in a bowl. Then he takes it with his left hand, pours it into his right hand, then he takes it with his right hand, and pours it on the opposite (over) hand of his left hand. He washes his right elbow with his left hand and his left elbow with his right hand. Likewise, he pours water on his right foot with his left hand and on his left foot with his right hand. After that, he pours water on his right knee with his left hand and on his left knee with his right hand in the same way. All of this happens on the container. Then he puts his right side into the water in the bowl. It does not wash the parts from the ankle to the elbow and from the heel to the knee. When the ablution is finished in this way, that water is poured over the back of the person who has touched his eye. In the hadiths above, we see that as a result of Sahl and Amir's (radiy-Allâhu  anh) act in accordance with the order of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam), Selil got rid of the discomfort that struck him. However, it is not possible to analyze the wisdom and reasons here. Because the mind cannot solve the secret of everything. The fact that the meaning in it is not understood through the mind does not necessitate rejecting it. (Bâcî, al-Münteka,  vol.7, pp. 256-57 and the footnote of hadith no. 3510 in Sunen-i  ÿbn Mâce, p. 2, p. 1160). 
2731-) Humayd b. From Kays: Cafer b. When the two sons of Abi Talib were brought to the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he said to their caretakers (nannies), why do I see them weak?' she asked. He said: O Messenger of Allah, they are scrutinized. We didn't have them read because we didn't know if it would be appropriate." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Have them read, because if something were to come in the way of destiny, it would be an evil eye.' he commanded. Mu'daldir narrated it as a mursal in the Mosque of Ibn Wahb through Malik-Humayd-Ikrima.  Esma b. It is derived from Umeys: Tirmidhi, 26-Tÿb,  17; Ibn Majah, 31-Medicine, 33. 2732-) Urve b. From Zubayr (radiyallahu anh): The wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) Umm He entered the house of Seleme. A child was crying there. When they said that he was touched by the eye, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If you had made him read it (to be protected) from the eye." he commanded. Abu Omar says: It is mursal in all Muwatta narrators. It is a hawk as its mana is fixed in various solid ways. See also Bukhari, 76-Medicine, 35; It is pointed out that it is permissible to recite the hadith of Muslim, 39, Salam, 21, no: 59, because of contact with the sheriff. However, the things recited should be from the words of Allah, not from the words of the people of disbelief, and they should be legitimate. 
must be within the dimensions. Just as Allah Almighty creates the cure for a disease caused by physical causes in 
certain drugs suitable for those diseases, He also creates the cure for some diseases based on spiritual causes through 
spiritual means. As seen in this and the previous hadith, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered reading, not ghusl and wudu. 
Because ghusl and wudu are only possible when the evil eye is evident. When it is not clear, it is not necessary for anyone to make 
wudu for this task. In this case, his tortures are eliminated by reading. In such cases, there is no harm in reading to the eye. 
However, the things to be read should be read in the name of Allah, his book and his dhikr. Otherwise, it is not permissible to read 
and enchant some things from the words of the people of disbelief. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  vol. 7, p. 258). According to the narration 
from the great hadith and Sahih al-Bukhari,  Khatabi in the sarih translation, it contains the names and attributes of Allah and His 
remembrance, such as the verse al-kursi,  which the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered to be recited against the evil eye and eye 
contact. It is the reciting of the verses that take place in the language of the people of pure heart to the patients who are disturbed 
by the eye contact. This is spiritual therapy. The illegitimate enchantment is the work of the goblins, who make a profit by turning this 
work into a profession. (Summary from Tajrid-i  Sarih Translation, Vol.12, p.90) 

2733-) Atâ b. From Yesar: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When a servant falls ill, Allahu ta'ala 
sends two angels to him and says: Look, what does he say to his visitors?' If the patient is praising Allah when visitors come, 
the angels convey this to the Almighty and All-knowing  Allah. 
Then Allah says: If I kill that servant of mine, I will put him in Paradise. If I heal and heal him, I will give him something better 
than the flesh and blood he lost due to his illness, and I will forgive his sins.” Ibn Abdilber, Abbad b. It was narrated by Kathir al-
Makki. 
2734-) Urve b. Zubayr says: I heard Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh), the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) say: 
“A believer will see the reward of all calamities he has suffered, even if a thorn prickles him,” or "The troubles he faces are atonement 
for his mistakes." he commanded. Muslim, Bir, 45/14, no:50. Because Yazid could not know for sure what Urwa was talking about, 
reward or expiation, he said both. 2735-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever 
Allah wishes to be good, he will inflict calamities." Bukhari, Marda, 75/1. In order to cleanse him of sins and raise his degree, he will 
be afflicted by calamities, calamities are unpleasant things. Making people suffer from calamities is like a divine medicine that cures 
people against dangerous sins and diseases. 

2736-) Yahya b. From Said: Someone about a person who died in the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): How happy is he! He 
died without a disease.” When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: What a shame! 
You do not know that if Allah had made him addicted to an illness, He would have made him atone for his sins. (By this, 
he would forgive his sins)". 
2737-) Osman b. Abu'l-As  (radiyallahu anh) narrates: I came to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). 
I was writhing with pain. Seeing my condition, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "I seek refuge in 
the might and majesty of Allahu ta'ala from the evil of the pain I feel," and rub the aching place seven times. 
That's how I did it. God cured my illness. Since then, I advise my family and others to do so. Abu Dawud, Tib, 27/19; 
Tirmidhi, Medicine, 26/29. 
2738-) From Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh): When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) fell ill, he used to recite 
muavvizetayn (falak and nas) and blew to himself. That is, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to put his hands together, recite to 
them and blow, and then rub them on the area of pain. Or he was reading by placing his hand on the aching part of his body. The 
reciting of these surahs is also because they mean to seek refuge in Allah from all evils and harms. Bukhari, Fedâilu'l-Qur'an,  66/14; 
Muslim, Salam, 39/20, no:50. 

2739-) Abdurrahman's daughter reported to Amr (radiyallahu anh): Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) entered the presence of Hadrat 
Aisha (radiyallahu anh). He was sick. A Jewish woman was also reading to him. Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) said: Read to him 
from the book of Allah. 
2740-) Zayd b. Maple told the following: In the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), an Ichishi was injured 
and he lost a lot of blood. This man called two of the sons of Enmar to look after him. According to what they said, the Messenger 
of Allah (pbuh) said to them: Which of you knows better about medicine?' When he asked, they said: Is there any benefit in 
medicine (medical intervention), O Messenger of Allah?' they said. (Thereupon) According to Zayd's statement, the Messenger of 
Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: He who brings down diseases has also sent down their cures and remedies.' he commanded. 
It is mursel by all narrators. But there are many solid and authentic witnesses. For example, see Bukhari, Tibb, 76/1; Muslim, 
Salam, 39/26, no:69. 
2741-) Yahya b. Said says: In the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Sa'd b. It was reported that Zurare died due to tying 
up the inflammation (tonsils) in his throat. Ibn Mace, Medicine, 31/24 

2742-) Nafi says: Abdullah b. Omar (radiyallahu anh) cauterized his facial paralysis and was read against the scorpion (sting). 
The fact that he cauterized his facial paralysis here is because he considers it permissible. This is how it is read against the 
scorpion sting. The Messenger of God's prohibition of branding is because it is dangerous when it is done randomly everywhere. 
2743-) Munzir's daughter Fatima says: When a woman is brought to Abu Bakr's daughter, Esma, who is suffering from malaria 
and is looking for a cure, she takes some water, pours it from her neck to her chest, and says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told 
us to lower the temperature of malaria with water. he would order.” he would say. Bukhari, Tib, 76/28; Muslim, 39/26, no: 82. 
2744-) Hisham narrated from his father, Urwa: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Fever (malaria or fever) is a part of the 
intense heat of Hell. By making a simile here, the severity of the fever of sickness is likened to the heat of hell. Lower his 
temperature with water.” 
Ma'n b. He is mursal by all narrators except Jesus. In Muvatta, Malik -Hisham -his father-Narrated by Aisha, Tib, 76/28; 
Muslim, Selam, 39/26, no: 81. 2745-) In a narration from Ibn Omar, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Fever is a part of the 
intense heat of Hell. Extinguish it with water.” he commanded. Bukhari, Tib, 76/28; Muslim, Salam, 39/26, no:79. 

2746-) Jabir b. Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu  anh) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When a person visits the sick, he is immersed in divine mercy. When he sits next to the patient, mercy will be witnessed about him (it will happen)» 2747-) Ibn Atiyya narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Patients' disease does not pass on to others." According to the belief of the Arabs, when healthy people sit with the sick, they would not want to approach the sick, saying that their disease would pass to healthy people. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said "disease does not go away" by stating that not all diseases are passed on to others in order not to leave the sick without care. However, in another hadith, it is understood that it is a fact that some diseases will go away when he says, "Escape from the leper as if you were running from a lion." This happens by the will of Allah. As a matter of fact, when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "There is no spread of the disease," a bedouin who was there said: O Messenger of Allah, what do you say to my sturdy camels that live on sandy land like deer? When a mangy camel comes and stumbles among these camels, it makes my camels mange." The Messenger of God said: "And who infected the first mangy camel with this disease?" he replied. There is no doubt that the disease of the camel, which first fell ill with scabies, did not occur by contagion, but by the will of Allah. Similarly, he wanted to say that the spread of your camels to your camels is by the will of Allah. (Tajrid-i  Sarih Translation, vol.12, pp.84-86). Arabs considered the owl, which is a kind of night owl, to be unlucky and said that when an owl landed on a house, it would be dead. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbids such superstitious beliefs and removes them from their hearts. (Suyuti, Tenvirul-Havalik,  Vol.3, p.123). there is no snake in the stomach (or the month of Safar is not considered a haram month). The word "safar", which is mentioned in the hadith, is used by the Arabs to mean the snake in the stomach of humans and animals, and it is also the name of one of the lunar months. Arabs considered that snake more temporary than scabies. At the same time, they believed that he killed his owner. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) rejected this superstitious belief and stated that everyone died of their own natural time. Or, what is meant by "Safar" is the month of Safar, which we know, Arabs considered it to be one of the haram months and instead considered the month of Muharram halal. When Islam came, this custom was abolished. Diseased animals should not be mixed with healthy animals. Robust animals can wander and graze wherever they want.” Why is this happening, O Messenger of Allah?" When they were asked, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied: Because mixing the sick with the healthy ones brings harm.' he commanded. Here, it is stated that when the diseased animals come to the healthy animals, the disease will be transmitted to them, and any harm that may occur to the healthy ones is prevented. 
2748-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered to shorten the mustache and grow 
the beard. Muslim, Taharet, 2/16, no:53. The purpose of shortening is to cut the part that extends above the lips. As for the beard, 
Abdullah b. It is narrated that Umar and Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) cut more than a pinch of their beards. (Bâci, al-Munteka,  
v.7, p. 266). 
2749-) Abdurrahman b. From Humayd, son of Awf: Muawiya b. In the year of Ebî Sufyan (radiy-Allâhu  anh) pilgrimage, I heard 
one of his guards take a piece of hair from his hand and say: O people of Madinah! Where are your scholars? I heard that the 
Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade such things and said that the sons of Israel perished only when their 
women got used to it." Bukhari, Anbiya, 60/54; Muslim, Libas, 37/33, no:122 2750-) Ibn Shihab narrates: (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) 
brought his hair down to his forehead (combed it), then parted it in two from the middle. Ibn Abdilber says: Malik's narrators thus 
narrated it as mursal. 

It is descended from Ibn Abbas in the Sahihayn: Bukhari, Libas, 77/70; Muslim, Fadail, 43/24. 2751-) 
Imam-i  Malik says: There is no harm in looking at the hair of his daughter-in-law  and mother-in-law. 
2752-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) did not approve of removing the eggs and twisting them (castration) 
and used to say that "his creation is complete if he stays". 

2753-) Safwan, son of Sulaym, was reported as follows: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A person who takes care of his or 
someone else's orphans will be like this (side by side) with me in Paradise if he avoids injustice." he said, showing his index and 
middle fingers. On this subject, Malik has another document in Muslim: There is another document in Muslim: Muslim, Zühd, 53/2, 
no:42 See also. 
Bukhari, Adab, 78/24. 
2754-) Yahya b. From Said: Abu Qatada al-Ansari  (radiyallahu anh) to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): My hair 
reaches my shoulders. Shall I comb them?” When he was asked, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied: Yes, also take care of 
them. Abu Qatada sometimes oiled his hair twice a day because the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) told him to 
take care of them. 
2755-) Ata b. Yesar told the following: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was in the mosque. A man with a messy beard entered. 
The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) gestured to him with his hand: "Get out." It was as if he meant 
to straighten his hair and beard. When the man came after he had straightened his hair and beard, the Messenger of Allah (may 
Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) said (showing him): It means that one of you is like a devil, that is, ugly-looking.  It was the 
custom of the Arabs to liken something ugly to the devil. Here, it is used according to their customs and it is aimed to explain that it is 
not appropriate to go out in the society with a messy and ugly appearance. Isn't it better for him to come like this than to come with 
his hair disheveled?' he commanded. Abu Omar says: There is no disagreement with Malik in his Mursel. It came from Jabir and 
others as a mana. 2756-) From Abdurrahman's son Abu Salama: Abdurrahman b. Aswad was sitting with a congregation. When he 
came to the congregation the next day, he had dyed his hair red. When the people there said to her: "This is better," he said, "My 
mother, Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh), the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), sent her concubine Nuhayîe to me last night and insisted 
that I paint it, and Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu  anh)" He said he painted it.” said. 

2757-) According to Yahya's account, Imam-i  Malik says: I haven't heard anything specific about it being painted black. 
But to paint it another color is better in my opinion.” 
2758-) Even if he doesn't paint at all. There is no difficulty for people in this regard. 
2759-) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not dye his hair and beard. If he had painted it, Aisha (radiyallahu anh), Abdurrahman 

b. Esvede used to report it. Shaybani, 937. 2760-) Yahya b. Said narrates: Khalid b. Walid (radiyallahu anh) told the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) I am afraid in my dream.» said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I seek refuge in Allah's perfect, perfect and superior words from His wrath and punishment, from the evil of His servants, from the whisperings of the devils and from being with me and harming me." 2761-) Yahya b. From Said: In a place where the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was taken at night, he saw a jinn looking for him with a fiery torch. He was looking for her wherever he turned. Gabriel said to him: Shall I teach you a few words that, when you read them, will put out your fire and make him fall on his face?' When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Yes, teach, Gabriel said: "Read these": From the torment that descends, from the evil of the evil that rises from the earth, from the evil of the creatures that Allah has created above and below the earth, from the strife of night and day, night and day. I seek refuge in Allah and His words, which are far from imperfection and beyond the reach of any good or evil, from disasters other than good things that happen. 
2762-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) says: A man from the Eÿlem tribe: “I did not sleep tonight.” said. 
Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): “Why?” when he asked: A scorpion stung me.' he replied. 
Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: If you had said in the evening: Take refuge in Allah's complete 
and superior words, far from the deficiencies, from the evil of what He has created, it would not have harmed you.' he commanded. 
Muslim, Zikr, 48/16, no:55. 
2763-) Ka'kâ b. From Hakim: Ka'bul-Ahbar  "If it weren't for a few words I said, the Jews would have made me a donkey." He means 
here that they would fool me and deviate from my right path, they would act like a donkey who knows and does not understand 
anything. Because the donkey has become a parable in the lack of understanding and ignorance. said. To him: What are those 
words?' When he was asked, he said: I seek refuge in Allah, who is nothing greater than himself, from the evil of what he has created 
and multiplied, in His words, complete and superior, far from any defect that good or evil can reach, and all the beautiful names of 
Allah that I know and do not know. Two things can be thought of here: Either he believes in the existence of the esmai husna, which 
he does not know even if others know, or he means that there are names among the esmai husna that no one knows. (Bâcî, el 
Münteka, vol. 7, p. 272). 

2764-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allahu ta'ala will say on the Day of Judgment: 
Where are those who love each other for my sake? From my shadow, from Allah's shadow, his will is his mercy, benevolence and 
protection. Or, as stated in many hadiths, the Throne is the shadow of A'la. On this day when there is no other shade, I will shade 
them in my own shade.” 
Muslim, Bir, 45/12, no:37. I will reward them for their good deeds in the world. 

2765-) It was narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “On the Day when there is no shade but His own shade (on the Day of Judgment), Allah will cast seven people under His shade (treating with His mercy): Adil head of state, a young man who grew up worshiping Allah, a man whose heart is attached to it until he returns from the mosque, two people who make love in the way of Allah, unite with this love and leave with this love, a man who remembers Allahu ta'ala in a secluded place and weeps with tears in his eyes. . When a beautiful and noble woman invites him, he says: "I fear Allah." The one who, when he gives charity, hides it so that his left hand does not know what his right hand gives. 
2766-) It was narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When Allah loves a servant, Gabriel said: I loved such and such a person (I am pleased with him), love him too.” commands. Gabriel also loves him, then he called out to the people of the sky: God loved so-and-so,  and you should love it too.' says. The people of the sky love him too. Then his love spreads among the people on earth.” Bukhari, Tawhid, 97/33; Muslim, Bir, 45/48, no: 157. That means he is among the Muslims who know him. Malik says: I think that when Allah hates a servant, he also says the same about it. In other words, when Allah hates a person, he said to Gabriel: I don't like anyone, neither do you! he commands. Gabriel doesn't like him either. Then he called out to the people of the sky: He does not love anyone. You don't like him either." says. On top of that, people on the ground hate him. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  v.7, p. 274). 
2767-) From Abu Idris al-Havlani;  I entered my Damascus mosque (Umayya mosque in Damascus), and I saw a young man with bright teeth and a beautiful face, and people gathered around him, when they disagreed about something, they applied to him and accepted his word. When I asked who he was: Muaz b. They said "Cebel". I went to the mosque early the next day. When I found him, he had arrived earlier than me and was praying. I waited for him until he finished his prayer. Then I went to your presence, saluted and said: I love you for the sake of Allah.» By Allah?» said. said. Again:?» said. By God!» I said Again:?' said. said. This shows that the oath was sometimes used in the Arabic language of that day to confirm and verify a news or a word. He grabbed me by my hood, pulled me to his side and said: Good news to you: I am the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) saying, "Allahu ta'ala says: Those who love each other for my sake, sit together for my sake, visit each other for my sake. and my affection is obligatory on those who devote themselves to My pleasure.” That is, I heard him say that Allah promises those who act in accordance with Allah's consent, both in jihad against the enemies and in other matters ordered to him, that He will reward them abundantly (Bâci, Münteka, volume 7, p. 275). available. It has the honor of Merfu. Because it is not said as his own opinion. Tabaranî, Abdullah b. He narrated from Serahsi. The hadith is authentic. The judge says: It is on the conditions of Buhari and Muslim. Ibn Abdilbar says: This is a sound isnad. 2768-) Imam-i  Malike Abdullah b. The following hadith of Abbas (radiyallahu anh) was reported: Being economical in affairs, being gentle and following a good way (in terms of religion and appearance) is one of the twenty-fifths  of Prophethood. That is, these are the morals of the prophets. It is one of the attributes commanded to them. We believe in this intimidation (individuation), but we do not know its nature. Because this is one of the prophetic information. It is not possible to understand this through thought and istinbat 2769-) Enes b. From Malik (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The faithful (true) and pleasing dream of a righteous person is one forty-sixth  of the prophethood.” Bukhari, Ta'bii, 91/2. Only the prophets can know what the real purpose was from the parts and nature of the Prophet mentioned in the hadiths and similar hadiths. The Prophet's Prophethood was twenty-three  years and the first six months of it were in the form of faithful dreams, which is one forty-sixth  of twenty-three  years. As a matter of fact, in a hadith narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh), it is stated that the first revelations to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) were in the form of faithful dreams. (Bâcî, el-Mühteka,  c.7, p.276). 
2770-) This hadith was also narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) in the same way. 2771-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the morning prayer and returned to the congregation: Do any of you have a dream tonight?» he asks, and says: “There will be no prophethood after me, but faithful (true) dreams.” he would command. 2772-) Ata b. From Yesar: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "After me, there will be nothing but the prophethood and the bearers of glad tidings." when he commanded, those there; What are the evangelists, O Messenger of Allah?” They asked him, and he said: These are true (true) dreams that a righteous person sees or someone else sees for Those dreams are one of the forty-sixths  of prophethood.” he commanded. Mursel. Bukhari, Zuhri-Saîd  b. Al-Museyyeb-  Abu Hurayra made a mausoleum. Bukhari, Ru'ya, 91/5. 2773-) From Abu Salama: Abu Qatada b. Rib'i says: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: "A good dream is from Allah, and a bad dream is from Satan. If any of you sees something that he does not like, when he wakes up, he should blow on his left side three times and seek refuge in Allah from the evil of that bad dream. So that dream will not harm him, Insha'Allah." Salama says: If I had a dream that would be heavier than the mountains, when I heard this hadith, I would not care about it anymore.» Bukhari, Tib, 76/39; Muslim, Ru'ya, 4262. Shaybani, 921 2774-) Hisham's father, Urwa: "There are good news for them both in the worldly life and in the hereafter. » Jonah, 10/64. about the gospel in the verse: faithful (true) dreams that a righteous person sees or someone else sees for him.» says. In the interpretation of this verse, Qadi Beydavi also states the following: The glad tidings in the life of this world are the glad tidings given to the pious in the language of the Qur'an and the Messenger of Allah, the good dreams shown to them, the discoveries opened to them, and the glad tidings given to them by the angels at their last breath. The glad tidings in the Hereafter are the glad tidings of salvation and bliss that the angels will give by opposing them (al-Beydavi,  Envaru't-Tenzil  and Esraru't-Te'vil,  volume1, p.443). 2775-) From Abu Musa al-Ashari  (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Anyone who plays backgammon will rebel against Allah and His Messenger.” Abu Dawud, Adab, 40/56. The judge says: It is authentic according to the conditions of Bukhari and Muslim. Zehrabi also accepted this. 2776-) When the news reached him that there was backgammon next to the Ahl al-Bayt,  who was living in the house of Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh), the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam), he sent them the news: “If you do not take it out, I will drive you out of my house.” and he did not welcome their move. 2777-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. When Umar (radiyallahu anh) found one of his family playing backgammon, he would beat him and break the backgammon. His tattoo was for discipline, and his breaking of backgammon was to prevent him from being of any use. 2778-) Yahya says: Imam-i  Malik: "There is no good in chess." said and did not welcome him. He did not like to play chess and other superstitious things and recited the following verse: "Now, after leaving the Truth, what remains but perversion?" Yunus 10/32 2779-) Zayd b. From Eslem: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The rider greets the one walking on foot. When someone from a community greets, it is enough for the others.” It is mursal with the alliance of the narrators. Giving is sunnah and receiving is fard. The sunnah of saluting is confirmed by various hadiths of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The obligatory nature of German is also fixed with the verse "When someone greets you, take his greeting in a better way or greet him exactly" (Nisa: 4/86). In a hadith narrated from Abu Huraira, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Glad the greetings to the little one, the one who is mounted, the one who is walking, the one who is walking and the one who is few." (Bâci, al-Münteka,  c.7, p.279). 
2780-) Amr b. Ata's son Muhammad told the following: Abdullah b. I was sitting next to Abbas (radiyallahu anh). A man from the Yemeni people entered his presence and greeted him by saying: "Assalamu alaikum wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuh". Then he added something more. Ibn 'Abbas, whose eyes were wide open at that time, asked: Who is this?' she asked. And the people there said: This is a Yemeni who came to you.' they introduced him to him. Thereupon, Ibn Abbas said: The salutation is completed with blessings. In other words, it is completed with the word "ve barakatuh". There is no need to add anything more than that. 2781-) Yahya says to Imam-i  Malik: Is it okay to greet a woman?» When asked, he replied: I don't mind giving it to women, but I don't like it given to young women. ÿeybanî, 914 2782-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When one of the Jews greets you, he says: "Assamu alaikum = Death be upon you." says. And you answer: "Aleyke = be upon you." Bukhari, Isti'zan, 79/22; Muslim, Salam, 39/4, no:8 2783-) Yahya says: To Imam-i  Malik: Will a person who greets a Jew or a Christian turn from him and break his greeting? When asked: "No," he replied. Shaybani, 911. There is no benefit or meaning in breaking it. Because if it is good to greet him, it is not necessary to return. If it is a bad thing, the penance is not in the hands of the Jew. For, greetings are not considered from the law of the Jews, but from the law of Allah Almighty. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  v.7, p. 282). 
2784-) From Abu Vakid al-Leysi  (radiyallahu anh): While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sitting in the mosque with his companions, three people came. Two of them turned towards the Messenger of Allah, and one of them left. These two people stood in the assembly of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and saluted. One of them saw an empty place in the ring and sat there. The other sat behind them. When he got to the third, he turned and left. When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) finished his speech, he said: “Let me inform you about the situation of these three people. One of them took refuge in Allah (entered the assembly), and Allah took him under his protection. The other one hesitated (did not want to cause trouble), Allah refrained from punishing him (forgave him), and the other one turned away (from the assembly of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). And Allah turned away from him (in wrath).” (6) Bukhari, science, 3/8; Muslim, Salam, 39/10, no:26. 2785-) Enes b. From Malik (radiyallahu anh): Umar b. I listened to Khattab (radiyallahu anh). The man greeted him. He also received his greeting. Then to the man: "How are you?" When asked, the man replied: Praise be to Allah. Umar (radiyallahu anh): "This is what I want from you." said. In other words, he wanted to explain that since it is Allah Who bestows goodness and blessings, he should always be praised 2786-) Abdullah b. From Abu Talha: Ubay b. Ka'b's son Tufayl gave me Abdullah b. He informed Umar (radiyallahu anh) that he had come to the bazaar together and said: When we went to the bazaar, Abdullah b. Omar 
He (radiy-Allâhu  anh) would always greet the sellers, the tradesmen, the poor and everyone he visited. the next day, Abdullah b. I went to Omar (radiyallahu anh). He asked me to go to the market with him. I said to him: What are you going to do in the bazaar? You don't stand with vendors. You do not ask for goods, you do not buy anything, and you do not sit in assemblies in the bazaar. I say sit here with us and we'll talk." when I said to me: O fat! (Tufayl was a person with a big belly) We will go to greet, we greet the people we meet.» said. Either he said that by scolding him because he did not understand his purpose, or he called him with the same nickname because he was known by his nickname 2787-) Yahya b. From Said: A man Abdullah b. He greeted Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) and said: Essalâmu aleyke wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuhu wal gadiyatu ver-raihât  = Peace, mercy, blessings of Allah and those who come and go morning and evening (angels who come to write down the deeds of mankind) be upon you.» said. b. Say to Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh): May it be upon you a thousand times.” he said, as if he didn't like it. That is, he said a thousand greetings to you, just like your greeting, and considered it makruh because he did not end this type of greeting with the word "wa barakatuh" and added other things, and he did not welcome it. 2788-) It was reported to Imam-i  Malik: When you enter a house where there is no one in it: Essalamu aleyna wa ala ibadillahis-salihin  = May Allah's peace be upon us and Allah's good servants. is called. When entering a house in which there is no one to greet, one greets himself and the good servants of Allah. As a matter of fact, Allahu ta'ala says: "When you enter houses, greet yourselves with a blessed and very good health (wish) from Allah." (Nur, 24/61). 
2789-) Ata, son of Yesar, tells the following: A man said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): O Messenger of Allah! Shall I ask permission to enter my mother's presence?" she asked. He said: "Yes". Man: I'm sitting at home with him.' The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Ask him for permission. Man: I serve him.” When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said again: Ask him for permission, do you want to see him naked?' said. The man said: No. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Then do not enter him without permission". Abu Omar says: It is mursal, it is authentic. I do not know if it is musnad by any means, authentic or authentic, ÿeybani, 9Ü2. 
2790-) From Abu Musa al-Ashârî  (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Ask for permission three times (intermittently when you go to someone). (Knock three times), enter if allowed, otherwise return.» 2791-) Rebia, son of Abu Abdurrahman, and some other scholars were reported as follows: Abu Musa al-Ashari  (radiyallahu anh), Omar b. He asked permission to enter Khattab's presence and repeated his request three times, (when there was no sound from inside) he returned. Umar (radiyallahu anh) sent a man behind him (calls him) and said: Why didn't you enter? she asked. Abu Musa (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Permission is requested three times. I heard him say, "If you are allowed, you will enter, otherwise you will return." said. Omar (radiyallahu anh): Who else knows? If you don't bring me someone who knows this, I'll do you such and such." said Abu Musa (radiyallahu anh) came out and came to a council called the Ansar council in the mosque and said: I am Umar b. I informed Khattab (radiy-Allâhu  anh) that I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) say that asking permission is three, or you will return. He said: If you do not bring me someone else who knows this, I will punish you like this and such. If any of you hear this, come with me." said to Abu Said al-Khudri,  who was among their youngest: Get up, go with him.' they said. When he went and told Hadrat Umar the same hadith, Hadrat Umar (radiyallahu anh) said to Abu Musa (radiyallahu anh): I do not accuse you. But I was afraid that people would invent lies in the name of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). said. Bukhari, Buyu, 34/9; Muslim, Adab, 38/7, no:36 Omar (radiyallahu anh)'s request for witnesses was born out of this fear. For this reason, he drew attention to the fact that the things attributed to the Messenger of Allah should be investigated. 
In another narration, Ubay b. Ka'b also testified on this issue and said, "O son of Khattab, do not be a torment on the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)!" When he said, Hadrat Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said: “Subhanellah! I heard something, I wanted to determine it," he said. (Bâci, al-Münteka,  v.7, p. 285). 2792-) Abdullah b. Abu Bakr (may Allah be pleased with him) narrated: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If someone sneezes, pray with blessings and blessings: "Yarhamukallah = May Allah have mercy on you and give you longevity", then say the same if he sneezes again. If he sneezes again, answer the same again. If he sneezes again after that, say: "You have a cold = you have a cold." Abdullah bin Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said, “I do not know whether this was after the third or the fourth.” From Ebu Davud, Edeb, 40/92; ÿeybani, 954 2793-) From Nafi: Abdullah b. Omar (radiyallahu) anh) when he sneezes, when it is said to him: "Yerhamukellah", "yarhamunailahu wa 
iyyakum wa Yagfiru lana wa lekum = May Allah have mercy on us and you and forgive us." he would say. 
2794-) Abdullah b. From Abu Talha's son Isaac: Shifa's freed slave Rafi b. Isaac told me: Abdullah b. Together with Abu Talha, we went to visit Abu Said al-Khudri  (radiyallahu anh) when he was ill. Abu Said said to us: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "Angels do not enter a house that has a statue or painting in it." 
he commanded. Ishak doubted which of Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu  anh) (painting and sculpture) was saying here. Ibn Abdilber 
says: This is the most authentic and the most beautiful hadith on the subject. Zurkanî says: That is, it is the most authentic and 
most beautiful. It is possible that both sculpture and painting are meant, as well as the possibility that the word "exemplary" in 
the hadith is separate pictures, and the word "image" is pictures made as embroidery or decoration on something else. (Bâci, 
al-Münteka,  v.7, p. 287). 
2795-) Utbe b. Mesud's grandson Ubeydullah b. It was narrated from Abdullah: Ubeydullah went to visit Abu Talha al-Ansari  
when he was ill. When Sahl b. Hunayf was also there. Abu Talha called a man and had the exhibit removed. Sahl b. Hunayf 
asked himself: Why are you taking him out?' she asked. He also: Because he has pictures. You know what the Messenger of 
Allah (pbuh) said about them," he said. Sahl said: Didn't the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say, except for embroidery and 
decorations on fabrics?' When she said that, Abu Talha said yes, but it was more pleasant to my heart to remove it.» he 
replied. 
The narrators of Muwatta are undisputed in the isnad and text of this hadith. Shaybani, 
904 2796-) From Aisha (radiyallahu anh): She bought a small pillow with pictures of animals on it. 
When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw him, he stopped in front of the door and did not enter. Hadrat Aisha understood the 
displeasure on his face and said: O Messenger of Allah, I am turning (from my mistake) to Allah and his Messenger. 
What crime have I committed?" she asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): What is this pillow with pictures?» said. 
Hadrat Aisha (radiyallahu anh) said: I bought it for you. You sit on it and lean on it.” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 
said: Those who make these pictures will suffer on the Day of Judgment. It will be said to them: Give life to these 
images that you have made. Then continue: Angels do not enter a house with a picture in it.» he commanded. Bukhari, 
Buyu, 34/40; Muslim, Libas, 37/26, no:96; Shaybani, 903. 
2797-) Süleyman b. Yesar says: Next to Abdullah b. Abbas (radiyallahu anh) and Halid b. Although Walid (radiy-Allâhu  anh) 
was, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered the house of Meymune, Haris' daughter. Seeing white lizards there: Where did 
they come to you from?' she asked. He said: My brother Haris daughter Huzeyle gave it to me as a gift.” When the Messenger 
of Allah (pbuh) replied: Abdullah b. Abbas and Halid b. He said to Walid: Thereupon, they said, "Wouldn't you eat too, O 
Messenger of Allah?" they asked. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: A group of angels is coming to me 
from Allah (I am busy). said. Maymune (radiyallahu anh): O Messenger of Allah, shall we give you the milk we have with us to 
drink? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Where did this come from for you?" Meymune replied: "My sister 
Huzeyle gave it to me." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: What would you say about your concubine, whose 
permission you asked me to be free? Give it to your sister and find her in the womb with her to your brother whom you are 
responsible for. This is better for you.” Mursel. Ibn Abdilber says: Bukayr b. al-Eÿecc,  Süleyman b. Narration by Yesar-Maymune 

it does. 
2798-) Mughira's son Khalid b. From Walid: When we entered the house of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi 
wa sallam) and his wife Maymune (radiyallahu anh), fried lizards were brought inside. When the Messenger of Allah (sall-
Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) reached out to him, some women in Maimune’s house said: “Tell him what the Messenger of 
Allah (pbuh) wanted to eat.” Thereupon, he said: O Messenger of Allah!' When it was said, the Messenger of Allah (may 
peace be upon him) withdrew his hand. I said: Or is this haram, O Messenger of Allah?' I asked. Thereupon, the Messenger 
of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: No, but he is not found in my people's land, so I did not feel sorry for him. Khalid 
says: I took him in front of me and ate it in front of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Bukhari, Zabaih, 72/33; Muslim, Sayd, 34/7, 
no: 43. See. Zurkanî, 44, p.193 (1278 edition) 

2799-) Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) says: A person called to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and 
asked: O Messenger of Allah! What do you say about the lizard?" The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "I 
neither eat it nor forbid it." Tirmidhi, Et'ime, 23/3 (This is a sound-Hasan  hadith). 
2800-) Companions Sufyan b. Abu Zuhayr, at the door of the mosque, narrated a hadith to those who were with him, and 
said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: If anyone adopts a dog that does not protect his garden and animals, this dog 
will decrease one carat from that person's deeds every day. Saib: Did you hear this from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)?" ' 
Sufyan replied, 'I swear by the Lord of the mosque, yes.' he replied. Bukhari, Hars, 41/3; Muslim, Musâkat, 22/10, no:61; 
Shaybani, 892. 
2801-) Abdullah b. From Omar (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The deed of a 
person who keeps a dog other than a hunting dog or cattle dog will decrease by two carats every day." 
Bukhari, Zebaih, 72/6; Muslim, Musâkat, 22/10, no:50; Shaybani, 893. 
2802-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered (stray) dogs to be killed. Bukhari, 
Bed'ul-Halk,  59/17; Muslim, Musâkat, 22/10, no:43. 
2803-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam); “The head of the kufr is on the 
east side. Claiming greatness and belittlement belongs to the owners of camels and horses. (So in the desert 

It is in those who live.) Dignity and humility are in the owners of the sheep.» Bukhari, Badul-Halk,  59/15; Muslim, Faith, 1/21, no:85. 
2804-) Abu Said al-Khudri  (radiy-Allâhu  anh) says: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The best property of a Muslim will be his sheep, behind which he wanders in mountain tops and valleys. Because of his devotion to his religion, he flees from fitnah.” Bukhari, Bed'ul-Halk,  59/15. 2805-) From Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "No one should milk another's cattle without his permission. Would one of you want his room to be given to him and his warehouse to be broken down and his food taken? Likewise, their cattle's udders store their food. Therefore, no one should milk another's cattle without his permission." Bukhari, Lukata, 45/8; Muslim, Lukata, 31/2, no:13. 2806-) Imam-i  Mâlike was reported as follows: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "There is no prophet who did not herd sheep." he commanded. You too? O Messenger of Allah!» When it was said, he said: “Me too”. This hearing (belaÿ), Abdurrahman b. It came from Awf, Jabir and Abu Huraira: Bukhari, Ijara, 37/2 2807-) From Nafi: Dinner was brought to Ibn Omar, meanwhile, while he was at home, he heard the imam's recitation and did not hurry until he had his meal. 
2808-) When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam)'s wife Maymune (radiy-Allâhu  anh) was asked about the condition of a mouse that had fallen into oil, he said: Take out the mouse and the oil found around it. Bukhari, Zebaih, 72/34; ÿeybanî, 984 2809-) Sehl b. From Sa'd es-Saidi  (radiy-Allâhu  anh): He said: "If there is bad luck, it will happen to the horse, the woman and the house." Bukhari, Jihad, 56/47; Muslim, Salam, 39/34, no:119. 
2810-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh): (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): He said, “Lucky misfortune is in the house, in the 
woman and in the horse.” Bukhari, Nikah, 67/17; Muslim, Salam, 39/34, no:115. Islam rejects the belief in bad luck. 
Mentioning these three ominous beings has been interpreted in two ways: According to Hadrat Aisha, the Messenger of Allah expressed 
his belief in ignorance in this hadith and said "they considered these three things unlucky". Some scholars, on the other hand, said that 
these three things are exempted from the general rule, in which case they should be abandoned 2811-) Yahya b. From Said: The 
woman came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! We have a house where we live. 
Our population was large, we had a lot of goods. When he said, "Now, our population has decreased, our property has been destroyed," 
the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: You left that house, considering it unlucky. he commanded. Ibn Abdilber says; It is a hadith from 
Anas and others. Abu Dawud, Medicine, 27/24. 
2812-) Yahya b. Said said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about a milking camel: Who will milk this? When he asked, a 
person stood up. The Messenger of Allah said to him: What is your name?' she asked. When the man replied to the Messenger of 
Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): “Murra”, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Sit. Then: Who will milk it?» 
when he asked, another person got up. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) 
And to him: what?» said. The man replied: "War." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) 
He said to him: Sit down. Then again: Who will milk it?» she asked. This time, another person got up. The Messenger of Allah 
(may peace be upon him) said to him: What?' she asked. The man replied: Yeish. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) 
said to him: You are alive. Mursel and mudal. Ibn Abdilber, Ibn Wahb -Ibn Lehia -al-Haris  b. Yazid -Abdurrahman b. Cubeyr. -Reported 
as apocalyptic through Yaish al-Gifasi. 
2813-) Yahya b. From Said: Omar b. Khattab to a person: What's your name?' she asked. And that's Cemre," he replied. Omar 
(radiyallahu anh): Whose son are you?» she asked. I am the son of Shihab," he said. Omar (radiyallahu anh): Who are you from?» 
she asked. He replied, "From Huraka". Omar (radiyallahu anh): Where is your house?» said. 
Adam Haratün-Nâr'da»  A name of a locality near Medina, which means a place that is hot or blackened as if the stones were burned 
by fire. he replied. Omar (radiyallahu anh): Which one?» When asked, the man replied: "Flame". Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: (In that 
case) catch up with your family, they got burned. Man: The event, Omar b. It happened just as Khattab said," he said. It is munkat. 
Ebu'l-Kasim  b. Biÿran, in his Fevâid, Musa b. Narrated by Ukbe -Nafi -Ibn Omar 2814-) Enes b. Malik (radiyallahu anh) says: The 
Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had blood drawn, and Abu Tayba took his blood. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) 
ordered him to be given one sa' of dates and his officers to lighten his tribute. Bukhari, Buyu, 34/39. 2815-) Imam-i  Malik was reported 
as follows: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) said: "If a medicine cures an illness, taking blood will cure it as well." 
This news, Abu Hurayra, Enes and Samura b. 

Gendub'tan manaca sahihtir. 2816-) One of the sons of Harise, Ibn Muhayyis, one of the sons of Harise, asked permission from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) to employ a man who took blood. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not allow him. The man continued to ask permission until he told the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) to feed him (the wage) to his slaves. Ibn Abdilber says: Yahya and Ibnu'l-Qasim  thus narrated. This is wrong, no scholar would doubt it. Sa'd b. How can he have his son Hiram when Manisa has no Companions? Undoubtedly, Biram b. Sa'd b. It is Manisa. See. Tirmidhi, Buyu, 12/47; Ibn Mace, Ticârât, 12/10 2817-) Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) narrates: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) pointing to the east, saying: "Here is the fitna. Where the devil's horn is born.” Bukhari, Badul-Halk,  59/11; Muslim, Fiten, 52/16, no: 45-49. 2818-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Umar b. When Khattab (radiyallahu anh) wanted to go to Iraq, Ka'bul Ahbar said to him: O Commander of the Believers, do not go to Iraq. For nine-tenths  of the magic are there, the wicked of the jinn are there, and the 
incurable diseases are there.” said. 
2819-) From Abu Lubabe: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade killing snakes in their nests. 2820-) From Sâibe, the freed concubine of Hadrat Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade killing small snakes in houses. Except for those with a short tail and two white stripes on their back. Because these two kinds of snakes take the light of the eye and cause women to miscarry. Mursel. In the Sahihayn, there are similar hadiths from Ibn Omar, Aisha and Abu Lubabe: Bukhari, Bedu'l-Halk,  59/15; Muslim, Salam, 39/37, no: 128-134. 2821-) Hisham b. Abu Saib, the freed slave of Zuhre, says: I went to Abu Said al-Khudri  and found him while he was praying. I sat and waited for him until he prayed. I felt a movement under the sofa in his house. I saw a snake! I got up to kill him. “Sit down,” Abu Said gestured. When he finished the prayer, he pointed to a room in the house and said: Do you see that room?' I said yes, too. Abu Said: There was a young man who had just married. This young man took part in the Battle of the Trench with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). While the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) was in the Ditch, this young man came and asked his permission and said: “O Messenger of Allah, I am newly married, let me.” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave him permission and ordered: Take your gun with you. . For I fear that Beni Qurayza will do something to you.” 
When the teenager went home, he saw his wife standing between the two doors. He reached out his hand to the spear to strike him, and his glory was victorious over him. Thereupon, the lady said: "Do not rush into your house until you see what is inside." The youth also entered the house and saw a twisted snake on his bed. He thrust his spear into her. Then he took it outside and planted his spear in the house. The snake trembled at the tip of the spear, and the youth fell dead. It is unknown whether the young or the snake died earlier. When this situation was told to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he said: There are jinn who have converted to Islam. If you see one of them, give it three days. After that, kill if you want. For he is the devil.” Muslim, Salam, 39/37, no:129. 2822-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) put his foot in a stirrup to go on an expedition, he would say: "In the name of Allah! My God, you are the owner of the expedition, you are the surrogate about my family. O Allah, make the earth for us and make the journey easy for us. O Allah, I seek refuge in You from the violence and torments of the journey, from experiencing something sad on the journey, from encountering a bad situation in terms of property and children. This news, Afedaftah b. From Serafenl, feftfegySaai Hureyre and others. 
2823-) It was narrated from Hawla, the daughter of the judge: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Anyone staying in a place should say, he said: I seek refuge in the complete and perfect words of Allah from the evil of what He has created," because (if he says so) from there Nothing can harm him until he emigrates. Muslim, Zikr, 48/16, no, 54,55 2824-) Amr b. Shuayb narrated from his grandfather: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "The only traveler is Satan. He is far from good in terms of familiarity and good behavior. The double traveler is two demons. Three of them are a congregation.” Abu Dawud, Jihad, 15/79; Tirmidhi, Jihad, 21/4. 
2825-) Said b. Musayyeb says: Satan haunts one and two travelers. If there are three people, they cannot be haunted. Abu Omar says: Muwatta is mursal with the alliance of its narrators. b. Asbag, Abdurrahman b. Ebi'z-Zinad  Abdurrahman b. Harmale-Said  b. Al-Museyyeb  -Narrated by Abu Huraira as a descendant. 2826-) Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu  anh) reported: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is not permissible for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to travel a distance of one day and one night without a mahram with her.” Bukhari, Taksîru's-Salat, 18/4; Muslim, Hac, 25/74, no: 421 2827-) Halid b. In the hadith he narrated as a madan merfu, he says: "Allahu ta'ala is the owner of grace. He likes ease, he likes it, shows him the help he did not show against violence and hardship. When you get on mute animals, lower them to their usual places. If the ground is arid and barren, drain the marrows quickly before they melt. Prefer night travel. Because the road that cannot be taken during the day is taken at night. Avoid staying on the road towards the morning. For the road is a place where animals come and go and where snakes take shelter.” Ibn Abdilber says: This is a musnad hadith in many ways. These are many reserved hadiths. 
2828-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Traveling is a part of torment. It prevents one of you from sleeping, eating and drinking. When any of you has fulfilled his need (seeing his work), he should hurry back to his family.” Bukhari, Umrah, 26/19; Muslim, Imaret, 33/55, no:179. 
2829-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “It is the right 
of slaves to be fed and clothed in a normal way. He cannot be made to do work beyond his power.” 
Muslim, Eyman, 27/10, no:41. 
2830-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Umar b. Khattab (radiyallahu anh) would go to the outskirts of Medina every 
Saturday, and if he saw a slave working in a job that he could not afford, he would not have him do that job. 
2831-) Abu Süheyl's father Malik, Osman b. He listened to Affan (radiyallahu anh) while he was delivering the 
sermon. Uthman (radiyallahu anh) used to say: “Do not force the concubine who has no art to make a profit. If you force 
him to earn, he will win by selling his honor. Don't force the little ones to make a profit either. Because if he can't find it, he will steal. 
Stay away from them..Search for halal food.» 
2832-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a slave is sincere 
to his master and performs his worship to Allah well, he will be given a double reward.” Buhari, Itk, 49/16; Muslim, Eyman, 
27/11, no: 43 2833-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Ömer b. When Khattab (radiyallahu anh) saw that his son Abdullah's 
concubine was dressed like a free woman, he went to his daughter Hafsa and said: "Let me not see your brother's concubine 
walking among people in the form of free women," and he did not welcome this. 

2834-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh): When we made a pledge to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  
’alaihi wa sallam) that we heard (his orders and prohibitions) and that we would obey (Allah, His Messenger and ulul-amr):  
“As far as you can!” he commanded. Buhari, Ahkam, 93/43; Muslim, Imaret, 33/22, no:90. 
2835-) Rukayka's daughter Umayma (radiyallahu anh) says: I came among the women who gave allegiance to the 
Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). ' Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: 
In matters within your power!' he commanded. 

(1) Bukhari, Ahkam, 93/43; Muslim, Imaret, 33/22, no:90. Allah and His Messenger are more merciful to us than we are. When they said, "O Messenger of Allah, let's give you allegiance", the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I do not shake hands with women. he commanded. Tirmidhi, Siyer, 19/37; Nesai, Bey'at, 19/18. 
2836-) Abdullah b. Dinar narrates: Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) Abdulmalik b. In his letter declaring that he had 
pledged allegiance to Marwan, he wrote: In the name of Allah, the merciful and merciful! Now, peace be upon Abdulmalik, 
the servant of Allah and the commander of the believers. I praise Allah for you, there is no god but He. I promise to listen 
and obey you as much as I can on the orders of Allah and His Messenger.” 

2837-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) 
said: “If a person says to his Muslim brother: “O disbeliever”, one of them will be true to this word. Bukhari, Adab, 78/13. 

2838-) It was narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: 
When he hears a person saying, “Down with people,” (know that) that person will be the one who is destroyed the quickest.» 
Muslim, Bir 45/41, no: 139. 
2839-) It was narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: 
“None of you will say: “The evil of time!” don't say. For it is God who does what is attributed to time.” 
Bukhari, Adab, 78/101; Muslim, Elfaz, 40/1, no:4. 
2840-) Yahya b. Said says, when Jesus, son of Mary, met a pig on the road, he said to him: Go safely. To Jesus: Are you 
saying this to the pig? they asked. Jesus answered: I fear that I will accustom my tongue to uttering bad words.' 

2841-) Bilal b. Harith al-Muzani  reported: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A man says a word that pleases Allah, he thinks 
that the word has not reached its destination. Allah writes that he is pleased with this promise until the Day of Judgment. A 
person, on the other hand, says a word that causes the wrath of Allah and thinks that the word has not reached its destination. 
Because of this word, Allah writes that he was angry with that person until the Day of Judgment.” It is narrated that Abu Hurayra 
is close to him as merfu. See. Bukhari, Rikak, 81/23; Muslim, Zuhd, 53/6, no:49, 2842-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) says: 
When a person utters a word, he does not remember that he will fall into the fire of hell because of that word. A person also 
says a word, and it does not occur to him that Allah will put him in Paradise because of this word. This is available. b. Abdullah 

b. Dinar -his father-Abu Salih is narrated as merfu through Abu Huraira: Bukhari, Rikak, 81/23. 
2843-) Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) says: Two people came from the east and made a speech. When his explanations pleased the people, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "There is magic in statements" or "Some statements are magic". Bukhari, Tib, 86/51. 
2844-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Jesus, son of Mary, used to say: Do not talk too much without remembering Allah. 
Then your hearts harden. The hard heart is far from Allah, but you do not know. Do not look at people's sins as if they 
were gods. Look at your own sins like the servants. Because people fall into (sin) and can get rid of it. Have pity on those 
who have been afflicted. Praise Allah for the well-being.  Mursel. Ala b. 
Abdirrahman b. Ya'qub -his father-is inherited by the deed of Abu Hurayra; Muslim, Bir, 45/20, no:70. 2845-) 
Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (pbuh), sent news to some of her family after the night 
prayer: "Won't you give the scribe angels a rest?" he would say. 
2846-) Abdullah b. Khattab's son Muttalib says: A person asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): What is 
backbiting?' When he asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): It is to tell something that a person does not 
like when he hears it.' he commanded. Man: Even if the Messenger of Allah is true?' she asked. 
Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): If you say something baseless, it will be slander.” he commanded. ÿeybani, 
956, 2847-) Ata b. Yesar narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If Allah protects a person 
from the evil of two things, that person will enter Paradise." Upon this, a person said: O Messenger of Allah, do not tell us (this) 
and the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) remained silent. Then he turned and repeated his first sentence exactly. 
The man said to him again: Do not inform us (O Messenger of Allah). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) 
remained silent again. Then he repeated the same word. Thereupon, the man said: Do not inform us, O Messenger of Allah!' 
said. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) repeated the same word. When the man went to the point of saying his first word, a 
person next to him silenced him. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If Allah protects a person from the evil of two things, 
that person will enter Paradise: his tongue and genitals! Your tongue and genitals!..” Abu Omar says; From Malik, as far as I 
know, it is undisputed mursal. Bukhari, Sahl b. It is narrated as descended from Sa'd: Rikak, 81/23. 

2848-) Zayd's father, Eÿlem, narrated: Umar b. Khattab walked up to Abu Bakr while holding out his tongue and said to him: "May Allah forgive you, don't do it!" Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) said: This put me in danger. 
2849-) Abdullah b. Dinar says: I and Abdullah b. We were in the house of Omar (radiyallahu anh), Khalid, son of Utba, in the bazaar. A person came and wanted to talk to Abdullah in secret. There was no one there but me and the man who wanted to talk to Abdullah in secret. Abdullah called another man for us to be four. He said to me and to the man he had summoned: Wait a minute. I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "Do not let two people talk in secret in the presence of one person." 2850-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When three people are together, two of them should not talk in secret.” Bukhari, Isti'zan, 79/45; Muslim, Salam, 39/15, no:36. 2851-) Safwan b. Sulaym reported: A person said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): Can I lie to my wife, O Messenger of Allah? she asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): There is no good in lying.” he commanded. That person: It means the promises that he believes he will fulfill by making some promises to him. Can I tell him?" When he was asked, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied: There is no sin in that.' he commanded. Mursel. Abu Omar says: I do not know that he is musnad in any way. 2852-) According to Imam-i  Malik, Abdullah b. Masud used to say: Do not deviate from the right word. Because telling the truth leads to good deeds, and doing good deeds leads to heaven. Avoid lying. Because lying leads to sin. Sin leads to hell. As a matter of fact: “He spoke the truth and did good deeds; He lied and sinned” is a famous saying. Bukhari, Edeb, 78/69; Muslim, Bir, 45/29, no: 103-105, 2853-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Referring to Luqman's virtue in him: What brings you to this virtue we see? When asked, Lokman replied: "To speak, to fulfill the trust and to leave unnecessary work". 2854-) According to Imam-i  Malik's narration, Abdullah b. Masud (radiyallahu anh) used to say: As long as a servant continues to lie, a black stain appears in his heart until he is written as one of the liars in the sight of Allah and his whole heart becomes dark. It is valid, its ruling is valid. Because there is no place for ijtihad on this issue. 2855-) oaivan b. Sulaym says to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "Can a believer be a coward?" When asked, he replied, “Yes”. Can a believer be a liar?" When he was asked, he replied: "No". 
Mursel or mu'dal, Abu Omar says: I do not know from a solid way, as a musnad. Hasen-mursel  a present. 2856-) It was narrated from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh) that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Allah is pleased with you in three aspects and is angry with you in three matters. That you worship Him and associate no partners with Him; He approves of you sticking to the Qur'an altogether and obeying those whom Allah has placed over you. He is also angry with you for gossiping, for wasting your property, and for asking too many questions.” Muslim, Akdiye, 30/5, no:10. 
2857-) Narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) said: 
It was said: The worst of people are the two-faced  ones who show one side to these and the other side to these.” 
Bukhari, Ahkam, 93/27; Muslim, Birr, 43/26, no: 99. 
2858-) Imam-i  Malik was reported as follows: Umm Salama, wife of the Prophet; Will we perish when there are 
righteous people among us, O Messenger of Allah?" The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied, "Yes, you will be 
destroyed when evil increases". Ibn Abdilber says: This hadith is known from Ummu Salama, only in a non-strong  way. 
(It is known from radiyallahu anha b. Jahsh, it is famous and reserved. 
See. Bukhari, Anbiya, 60/7; Muslim, Fiten, 52/1, no:1. 
2859-) Omar b. Abdulaziz used to say something like this: "Allah Almighty does not punish the society for the sin of a 
person, but if an evil is committed openly, the whole society will be punished." 
2860-) Enes b. Malik (radiyallahu anh) says: Umar b. We went out together with Khattab (radiyallahu anh). He went 
into the garden, there was a wall between us. I heard him say: 'Umar b. Khattab is the command of the believers! Look, 
look!.. I swear by Allah, you either fear Allah or He will punish you.” 
2861-) Kasÿm b. Mohammed used to say: I've lived with people who don't like to talk about something they don't do. 
(He is referring to the Companions) Malik says: Qasim meant deeds by this. Because one's deeds, not words, are 
considered. As a matter of fact, the following is stated in the Qur'an: "O you who believe! Why are you saying what 
you won't do? The worst thing in the sight of Allah is to say what you will not do.” (Saff, 2-3). 
2862-) Abdullah b. When Zubayr's son Amir heard the thunder, he stopped speaking and said: his roaring praised him, 
and the angels with fear. Rad, 13. After that, he would say: "This is certainly a severe threat to those on earth." 

2863-) According to what is reported from Hadrat Aisha (radiyallahu anh), the mother of the believers, when the 
Messenger of Allah (pbuh) died, his wives Osman b. They sent Affan (radiyallahu anh) to Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) 
and told him to ask the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) for their inheritance. 
Thereupon, Hadrat Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh) told them; Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): We do not leave 
an inheritance; it is the alms we left behind.” hadn't he ordered? said. Bukhari, Faraid, 85/3; Muslim, Jihad, 32/16, 
no:51. 
2864-) It was narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “My heirs do not divide 
gold coins. What I leave aside from the maintenance of my wives and the expense of my worker is charity.” Bukhari, 
Faraid, 85/3; Muslim, Jihad, 32/16, no:55. 
2865-) It was narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu  anh) that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) 
said: “The fire that people have burned is a part of seventy parts of the fire of Hell.” The Companions said: "O Messenger 
of Allah, the fire of the world will be enough (to punish)". The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The 
fire of Hell has been made sixty-nine  degrees more intense than the fire of the world." Bukhari, Badul-Halk,  59/10; Muslim, 
Cennet, 51/12, no:30 2866-) Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh) said, "Do you think the fire of Hell is red like your fire? It was 
narrated that he said: "It is black as pitch." Bâci says: Abu Huraira can know such things only by hearing. Because this is 
news from the unseen. Ruling is valid (Zurkani). 

2867-) Ebu Hubab Said b. From Yesar: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he 
gives charity out of his halal earnings -in fact, Allah accepts only halal -he will put it in Allah's power. And Allah raises 
him until he becomes like a mountain, just as one of you raises his foal or a camel's calf.” This is a hadith with which 
there is an unanimous agreement: Bukhari, Tawhid, 97/23; Muslim, Zakat, 12/19, no:63. 
2868-) Abu Talha's grandson, Isaac, from Enes b. It was narrated that he heard Malik say: Talha was the one 
with the richest date palm among the Ansar in Madinah. His most valuable possession, in his opinion, was the date 
palm called "Beyruha" opposite the Masjid an-Nabawi.  The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would enter there and drank 
from its sweet water. “You will not get good unless you spend from what you love.” In the 92 verse of Ali Imran, Abu 
Talha appeared before the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! Allahu ta'ala 
says: "You cannot obtain goodness unless you spend from the things you love." I think the most valuable of my 
possessions is Beyruha (called date palm). It is charity for the sake of Allah. I hope that he will be my good and provision 
in the sight of Allah. Spend it wherever you want, O Messenger of Allah!” When he said, Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa 
sallam) said: What a profitable property this is. I heard you say about him. I see fit that you give it to your relatives.” he 
commanded. Thereupon, Abu Talha said: I will do it, O Messenger of Allah. Then he divided the date palm to his relatives 
and his uncle's sons. Bukhari, Zakat, 24/44; Muslim, Zakat, 12/14, no:42. 
2869-) Zayd b. From Eslem: (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): “If a beggar comes on a horse, give it to him”. Ibn Abdilber 
says: I do not know of any disagreement about the fact that this hadith is mursal from Malik. As far as I know, there is 
no musnad hadith on this subject. For similar, see Shaybani, 933. 
2870-) According to what is reported from Amr, son of Muaz, a member of the Eÿheli tribe from Ansar, his 
grandmother said: "O believing women! One of you should not be ashamed to give a gift to his neighbor, even if it 
is a ironed ram's trotter. Bukhari, Grant, 51/1; Muslim, Zakat, 12/29, 

No: 90; Shaybani, 932. 2871-) It was reported to Imam-i  Malik from Hadrat Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh), the wife of our Prophet (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam): asked him for help. He had only one loaf of bread in his house. To his freed concubine: Give it to the poor.” said. Concubine: You have nothing else to break your fast.” said, Hadrat Aisha (radiy-Allâhu  anh): Give it to the beggar.” said. He says: I have fulfilled the order of Hazrat Aisha. In the evening, one of the household members or a person gave us a mutton wrapped in phyllo bread as a gift. Aisha, the mother of the believers, called me and said: "Eat this, it is better than your bread." said. 2872-) From Imam-i  Malik: It was reported to me that a poor man asked for food while there were grapes in front of the believers' mother, Hadrat Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anh). Hadrat Aisha said to a man: Take one and give it to the poor. said. When the man started to look at Hadrat Aisha (radiyallahu anha) in bewilderment: Are you amazed? How many granules do you see in this one?” said. In the Qur'an: Whoever does an atom's worth of good will be rewarded. is commanded. (Ez-Zilzal,8) 
2873-) From Abu Said al-Khudri  (radiy-Allâhu  anh): Some people (from the Muslims of Medina) asked for help from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) and he gave it. Then they asked again, he gave again. Finally, when the goods in his hands are exhausted; I do not hide the property with me from you. Whoever avoids begging, Allah will make him chaste and honorable. Whoever looks rich, Allah makes him rich. Whoever is patient, Allah gives him patience. No one has ever been given a better and broader blessing than patience.” he commanded. Bukhari, Zakat, 24/5; Muslim, Zakat, 12/42, no: 124 Shaybani, 898. 
2874-) Abdullah b. From Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh): (sall-Allâhu  ’alaihi wa sallam) talking about charity and avoiding begging on the pulpit: “The upper hand is better than the lower one. The upper hand is the one who helps, and the lower one is the begging.” Bukhari, Zakat, 24/18; Muslim, 12/32, no: 94. 2875-) From Atâ, son of Yesar: (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam), Omar b. He sent a gift to Khattab. When Umar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) returned him, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked Umar: Why did you return the gift? he commanded. Omar (radiyallahu anh): O Messenger of Allah! Didn't you tell us that the best thing for one of us is not to take anything from anyone?" said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): This is by begging. But if it happens without begging, it is a provision that God has given you.” he commanded. Thereupon, Omar (radiy-Allâhu  anh) said: I swear by Allah, with whom I live by his power and will, that I will not ask anything from anyone. I'll also take anything that comes to me unwillingly." said. It is mursel with the alliance of Kavis. It is narrated from Hazrat Umar in Sahihayn: Buhari, Ahkam, 93/17; Muslim, Zakat, 12/37, no:110-112. 
2876-) From Abu Hurayra (radiy-All-Allâhu  anh): “I swear by Allah, with whom I live by his strength and will, that one of you should take the rope and carry wood with his back, because he will come to a man whom Allah has made rich and beg—which  is Whether the man gives it to him or not—it  is better.” Bukhari, Zakat, 24/50; Muslim, Zakat, 12/35, no: 106 2877-) A man from the sons of Asad told the following: Me and my family went down to "Bakîl-Garkad" (Medina  Cemetery named after him). My family told me: Go to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and ask for something to eat for us.' they said and started to tell their needs. When I went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), I found a man with him asking for help. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to him: I cannot find anything to give you. The man angrily said: "I can give you what you want," and left the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: This man is angry with me because I cannot find anything to give him. Whoever of you begs for a ukiye or its equivalent honey, he begs persistently”. Asadî said: “For us, a camel is better than a ukiye.” Malik says: One ukiyye is forty dirhams. says; I did not want anything from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and came back. Then, when barley and raisins were brought to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he divided them for us until Allah made us rich. Nasai, Zakat, 23/90. 2878-) It was narrated from Imam-i  Malik that he heard Abdurrahman's son, Ala, say: "Charity does not decrease anything in wealth. Of course, Allahu ta'ala raises the honor and dignity of the forgiver. And the humble servant is exalted by God.” This cannot be done by ijtiha. A group attributed it to him. It is reserved and musnad. Ibn Abdilber says this. See. Muslim, Bir, 45/19, no: 69, 2879-) According to what is reported to Imam-i  Malik, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Charity for the family of Muhammad is not halal. Because charity is the dirt of people.” he ordered. Muslim, zakat, 12//51, no: 167. 
2880-) Abdullah narrated the following from his father, Abu Bakr: (sall-Allâhu  'alaihi wa sallam) appointed a man from the sons of Abdu'l-Ashhel  as an officer to collect zakat. When the man collected the zakat, he asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) for a camel from the zakat goods. Upon this, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got angry. Even anger showed on his face. The anger on his face was known for the reddening of his eyes. Then he said: The man does not want what is not suitable for him or me. If I don't give it to him, I find it bad not to give it; if I do, I will not give what is not suitable for him or me.' Man: Yeah 
Messenger of Allah! I will no longer ask you for anything from those zakat goods forever.” said. He is Mursei. Ahmed 
b. Mansur al-Belhi,  Malik -Abdullah-his father-reports with Enes deed. See Aycÿca. Shaybani, 899. 2881-) Zayd narrated the following from his father Eslem: Abdullah b. al-Arkam  said to me: Show me one of your riding camels, and I will ask the commander of the believers to mount me on this camel.» said. I said: Well, let me show you a camel from the zakat goods.' said. Abdullah b. al-Arkam:  Would you like it if, on a hot day, a fat man washed your legs and calves for you and gave you a drink of water? said. I got angry too and said: May God forgive you. Are you saying this to me?” said. Abdullah b. al-Arkam:  Charity is the dirt that people wash from their bodies.» said. 2882-) According to what is reported from Imam-i  Malik, Lokman Physician made a will to his son and said: For, just as Allah resurrects the earth with the rain of the sky, so also He resurrects the hearts with the light of wisdom.” 
2883-) From Zayd's father Eslem: b. Khattab appointed his freed slave, Hüney, to guard the pasture and said: O Hüney! be gentle with people. Avoid the curse of the oppressed. Because the prayer of the oppressed is accepted. Let the owner of few camels and the owner of few sheep enter the pasture. Don't let (Abdurrahman) Ibn Avf's animals and (Osman) Ibn Affan's animals go to pasture. He said them as an example. Because their cattle were many. Otherwise, he did not particularly want to prevent them both. Because if their cattle perish, they will return to agriculture and date palms. If the owner of few camels and the animals of the owner of few sheep are destroyed, he will send his sons to me and say, "O leader of the believers! They say, "O commander of the believers". Shall I leave them, hey he lost his father! Donating water and grass is easier for me than gold and silver. I swear by Allah that they think that I am wronging them. For this is their land and water. They fought for him in the period of ignorance, and in the period of Islam they became Muslims over him. I swear by God, with whose strength and will I live, that if it were not for the animals that I carry on my back during wars, I would not have protected an inch of their land.” Bukhari, Jihad, 56/180. 2884-) From Muhammad, son of Cubayr, son of Mut'im: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I have five names: I am Muhammad. I am Ahmed. I am Mani: Allah will destroy disbelief with me. I am Hashirim: People will be resurrected at my feet (following me). I am Aqib (the last of the prophets.) » Ibn Abdilber says: Yahya and most of the narrators narrated in this way. 

