1-) To make wudu completely and completely,
1-) According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When one of you wakes up from sleep, he should not put his hand in the water to make wudu; pour it on your hand and wash it three times. Then he should put his hand in that bowl and perform his ablution, because you don't know where your hand touched at night.) Tahara: 26; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 24)
1-) We were on a journey with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He anointed his forehead, the sides of his turban, and his loins.
2-) Not to eat alms,
2-) It is a person who is in the position of head of state to pray behind another person. Again, I was on a journey with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and I witnessed the following incident. It was time for the prayer, but the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was late for the prayer. They also stood and prayed by making Ibn Awf the imam. Afterwards, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) prayed behind Ibn Awf and completed the rest on his own. (Muslim, Tahara: 23; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 57)
2-) According to the narration from Huzeyfe (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When he got up at night, he would use his miswak.) Voodoo'': 78; Muslim, Tahara: 15)
3-) Our horse and donkey mating. (Tirmidhi, Jihad: 23; Abu Dawud, Jihad: 59)
3-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I went to him while he was using the miswak; one end of the miswak was on his tongue and it was making an aa sound.) Voodoo': 78; Muslim, Tahara: 15)
4-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) with two of the Ash'aris, one on my right and the other on my left; The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) was using a miswak with his mouth. Those two people immediately asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) for a job (officer). I said: I swear by Allah, who sent you as a prophet with the true religion, that they did not reveal their desire for work to me. I didn't realize they wanted a job, too. At this moment, I can see the miswak under the lip of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). He sent Moses to Yemen. Then Muaz b. He took Cebel to the road. Building: 3; Abu Dawud, Hudud: 1)
5-) Abdurrahman b. Ebî Atîk (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: My father told me the following: I heard from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is a cleaning material for oral and dental health. In addition, the use of miswak; It is one of the works that will earn the pleasure of our Lord.) Friday: 8; Darimi, Tahara: 19)
6-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: I remind you to use the miswak often.) Friday: 8; Darimi, Tahara: 18)
7-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If it were not too heavy, I would order them to use a miswak before every prayer.) Friday: 8; Darimi, Tahara: 18)
8-) Ibn Shurayh (radiy-Allāhu anh), quoting from her father, said: I asked Aisha (radiy-Allāhu anha): What would the Prophet (pbuh) do first thing when he entered his house? He replied, (He would miswak his mouth first). Tahara: 15; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 30)
9-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The five things that a human being must do as a requirement of creation are: being, shaving the skirt, shortening the mustache, clipping the nails, shaving the armchair.) David, Tahara: 29; Bukhari, Istizan: 51)
10-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The five things that a human being should do as a requirement of his creation are as follows: keeping it short, cleaning the armpits, cutting the nails, shaving the skirt and being circumcised. ) Inquisition: 51; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 29)
11-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: One of the things that should be done due to creation: being circumcised, shaving the skirt, cleaning the armpits, cutting the nails and keeping the mustache short.) Committed: 51; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 29)
12-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Some of the things he must do as a requirement of his creation are as follows: Cutting nails, trimming the mustache and shaving the skirt.) Istizan: 51; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 29)
13-) Zayd b. According to a narration from Erkam (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Those who do not shorten it but lengthen it are not among those who follow our path.) Adab: 16; Musnad: 18462)
14-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): shortening, cutting nails, shaving skirts and armchairs; He ordered us not to extend it for more than forty days.) Another time, he said more than forty nights. Tahara: 16; Tirmidhi, Adab: 15)
15-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Keep it short and grow your beard.) Adab: 18; Muslim, Tahara: 16)
16-) Abdurrahman b. Abî Kurâd (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I went out with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to need the toilet. When he had such a need, he would distance himself from others. 15105)
17-) Muğira b. According to the narration from Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to stay away from people for toilet needs. On one of his journeys, he had gone away again: Bring water, he called. I brought water to him, he performed ablution with it and wiped over his lofts.) Tahara: 10; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 6)
18-) According to the narration from Huzayfa (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was walking with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and when he arrived at a garbage dump of a community, he started to break his ablution even though he was standing. I wanted to get away from him too. He called me, and I stood behind him until he was done. Then he performed ablution and wiped over his meshes. Tahara: 9; Muslim, Tahara: 21)
19-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to go to the toilet, he used to say: I seek refuge in You from all male and female devils and from all filth and evil.) Tahara: 5; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 17)
20-) Rafi b. According to the narration from Ishaq (radiyallahu anh), when Abu Ayyub al-Ansari was in Egypt, I heard him say: I do not know how to act in these toilets. should not turn his back towards the qibla.) Tahara: 6; Bukhari, Voodoo'': 11)
21-) According to the narration from Abu Ayyub (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Do not face the qibla in front of you or behind you, but turn east and west when performing ablution.) Voodoo'': 11; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 6)
22-) According to the narration from Abu Ayyub al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: When you need to fulfill your wudu needs, do not turn your face towards the qibla, but turn to the east and west.) Voodoo'': 11; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 4)
23-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was on his roof; I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performing ablution on two adobe bricks towards Bayti Makdis.) Tahara: 7; Bukhari, Voodoo'': 14)
24-) Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated from his father and said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Do not touch your genitals with your right hand while breaking your wudu.) (Bukhari, Wudu': 20; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 70 )
25-) Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh) narrated from his father and said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When you enter, do not touch your genitals with your right hand.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 11; Muslim, Tahara: 18)
26-) According to the narration from Huzeyfe (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to a community’s garbage dump and performed his small ablution standing there.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 9; Bukhari, Wudu’: 67)
27-) Huzeyfe (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: “Sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to a community’s garbage dump and made his small ablution standing up.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 67; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 9)
28-) According to what is reported from Huzeyfe (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went to a garbage dump of a community and broke his ablution standing there.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 67; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 9)
29-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Do not believe if he tells you that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) broke his ablution while standing. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would break his wudu by sitting down.) Tahara: 8; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 14)
30-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Hasene (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to us with something like a shield in his hand, planted the material in his hand on the ground, squatted behind him and broke his ablution.) Some of those present: Look! They said that it breaks your small ablution like women. Hearing this, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to those people: Do you not know what happened to some of them? They were cutting the places on which urine touched them with scissors, and some of them forbade them from doing this, and then they were punished in the grave.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 10; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 26)
31-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to two graves and said: Two people in the grave are tormented. This punishment is not due to their major sins. That person in the tomb was careless when he was alive, because of the splash of his urine. This other one used to quarrel and use words.) Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked for a fresh date branch and divided the date branch into two, planted one on one grave and the other on the other grave, and said: their torment will be alleviated.) (Ibn Maje, Tahara: 26; Bukhari, Voodoo'': 58)
32-) Hukeyme's daughter Umayma (radiy-Allâhu anha), her mother Umayma b. According to the narration from Rukayka (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had a bowl carved from wood, in which he would make his small ablution and put it under the divan.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 13; Ibn Majah , Funeral: 64)
33-) According to the narration from Aswad and Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), they said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made a bequest to Hadrat Ali when he was sick. and he wanted a bowl to make his small ablution, I don't know what will he made at that time.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 13; İbn Mâce, Cenaiz: 64)
34-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Serjis (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do not make small ablutions in their burrows (holes). He replied as follows: It is said that they are the places where jinn are found.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 16; Musnad: 19847)
35-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), it was forbidden to make small ablutions in stagnant water.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 25; Muslim, Tahara: 28)
36-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mugaffel (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “One of you should not make a small ablution in the place where he is washing, because most of the delusions and doubts are caused by such things.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 15; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 17)
37-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While he was performing a small ablution, a man stopped by him and greeted him. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did not receive his greeting.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 8; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 27)
38-) Muhacir b. Kunfuz (radiy-Allâhu anh) greeted the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) while he was making small wudu, but the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not greet him until he made wudu. He finished his ablution. Then he took his salute. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 27; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 8)
39-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade the use of bone or dung. (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 16; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 14)
40-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I teach you everything like a father. When one of you enters the toilet, he should not turn his front and back towards the qibla, and he should not wash with his right hand.) The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to order to take a bath with three stones and forbade it to be done with bones and dung. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 20; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 16)
41-) According to the narration from Salman (radiy-Allâhu anh), the man said to Salman: When the man said to Salman: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), who is your friend, teaches you everything, including breaking wudu, Salman: He teaches you everything. He forbade us not to turn to the qibla, not to take a bath with our right hands, and to use less than three stones.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 16; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 21)
42-) Abdullah b. Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh) says: once, he went to a place to meet his toilet needs. He also ordered me to bring three stones (for him). I found two stones, although I searched for the third one, I could not find it. I bought a dung instead. I brought them all to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Abdurrahman said: It means dung and it is the food of the jinn). (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 13; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 16)
43-) Salama b. According to the narration from Kays (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Make the number of stones odd.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 13; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 21)
44-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When you need to use the toilet, take three stones with you and clean with them.
45-) Ata b. According to the narration from Abu Maymune (radiyallahu anh), he said: Anas b. I heard Malik say: When he (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) went to the toilet, I and a child my age used to carry water for him; The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would also be cleaned with that water.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 23; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 28)
46-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Wives, instruct your husbands to clean with water. I am ashamed to tell your husbands that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was treated with water.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 15)
47-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When one of you drinks water and soft drinks, he should not blow into the bowl. When you enter the toilet; Let him not touch the genital organ with his right hand and let him not wash with his right hand.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 18; Muslim, Tahara: 18)
48-) Ibn Qatada narrated from his father, Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), and said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade a person from blowing into the vessel from which he drinks water, touching the genitals with his right hand, and making a bidet with his right hand.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 18; Muslim, Tahara: 18)
49-) According to the narration from Salman (radiy-Allâhu anh), the polytheists said to Salman: We see that your friend, the Prophet, even teaches you to break wudu. Salman said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade us from making tahirah with our right hand, turning to the qibla while making wudu, and said, 'Don't do it with less than three stones.) (Muslim, Tahara: 18; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 18)
50-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he was about to make wudu, but after getting done, he rubbed his hand with soil.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 24; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 29)
51-) Ibrahim b. Cerir (radiy-Allâhu anh), narrated from his father, said: I was with him (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He said bring water. I brought him water too. He made his toilet with water and rubbed his hands with soil.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 24; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 29)
52-) Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh) narrates from his father that he was asked about whether the puddles where predators and other animals go dirty, and he replied: If it reaches the amount of two towers, it will not be dirty.) It is a vessel so large that its smell and taste do not change.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 50; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 76)
53-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh): Bedouin made his small ablution in the mosque. Some of those present tried to prevent him. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Do not hinder him. When the Bedouin finished his work, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) brought a bucket of water and poured it on the urine.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 61; Ibn Mace, Tahara: 78)
54-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Bedouin had made his small ablution in the mosque, but the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered a bucket of water to be brought and that water was poured there. (Bukhari, Wudu': 61) ; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 78)
55-) Yahya b. Said (radiyallahu anh) said: I heard Enes say: A Bedouin came to the mosque and did his ablution. Thereupon, the people there shouted to the Bedouin. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: They did not do anything to him until he finished urinating. Then he ordered a bucket of water to be brought, and that water was poured there. (Bukhari, Voodoo: 61; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 78)
56-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A Bedouin urinated on one side of the mosque and the people there took action. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to them: Pour a bucket of water over him and his urine. Because you were sent for convenience, not for hardship). (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 112; Bukhari, Voodoo'': 61)
57-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do not urinate in stagnant water and then make ablution from it.) (Bukhari, Wudu'': 73; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 36)
58-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He should not urinate in stagnant water, then he may have to wash with that water.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 36; Bukhari, Wudu': 73)
59-) Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh) said: A man said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): Messenger of Allah! We are going on a sea voyage and we have little water with us, if we make ablution with that water, we will be dehydrated, so can we make ablution with sea water? He asked, The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied: "The water is clean, and all sea animals are halal." (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 52; Ibn Majah, Sayd: 18)
60-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When he was going to start the prayer, he would pause for a while after the iftitah takbir and would not start reciting immediately. Me: Messenger of Allah! May my parents be sacrificed for you, what do you say in your silence between this takbir and the recitation?) I asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Keep me away from mistakes as you have distanced the east and the west. my god! Cleanse me from faults as a white dress is cleaned of dirt. my god! Cleanse me from my mistakes with snow, water and hail.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 121; Bukhari, Adhan: 14)
61-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to pray: Wash off my faults with snow and hail water. Cleanse my heart from mistakes as you clean the white dress from dirt.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 121; Bukhari, Adhan: 14)
62-) Jubayr b. According to the narration from Nufer (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I witnessed Awf Ibn Malik say: I heard him say while he was performing a funeral prayer, and I heard him say in his prayer: forgive him, have pity on him, fix his condition. , give him a treat, make his place wide, wash him with water, snow and hail. Cleanse him from his faults and sins, just as a white dress is purified from dirt.) (Muslim, Cenaiz: 14; Tirmidhi, Cenaiz: 27)
63-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If a dog drinks water from his bowl, he should wash it seven times.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 68; Muslim, Tahara: 27)
64-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) says: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If a dog puts his mouth in his bowl, he should wash it seven times.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 68; Muslim, Tahara: 27)
66-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If a dog puts his mouth in his bowl, let him pour out the water in that bowl and wash it seven times.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 37; Muslim, Tahara: 27)
67-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mugaffel (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered to kill. He allowed the hunting and sheep dogs and said: If he puts his mouth in a container, wash it seven times and rub it with soil on the eighth.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 37; Muslim, Tahara: 27)
68-) Kebşe bint Ka'b. b. According to what was reported from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), Abu Qatada came to Kebshe and said that he said something close to this: I had prepared wudu water for Qatada, a cat came and wanted to drink water from the vessel. Abu Qatada tilted the bowl so that the cat could drink water comfortably. Kebsha said: When Abu Qatada saw that I was looking at that pot; O my sister's daughter, are you surprised? She asked. I said yes, then Abu Qatada said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: It is not dirty, it is one of the clean animals that roam a lot in your homes and around you.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 69; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 32)
69-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to us and said: “The Messenger of Allah forbids you from eating donkey meat because it is najis and dirty.) (Muslim, Sayd: 5; Musnad) : 11643)
70-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: I was eating from a meaty bone. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) ate from the part that I bit him. However, I was menstruating at that time. And again, while I was menstruating, I was drinking water from a container, and the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allāhu 'alaihi wa sallam) drank from the same container I drank from. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 102; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 125)
71-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: In the time of sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), men and women were making ablution from a vessel or they were doing ablution together before the verse of hijab was revealed.) (Bukhari, Wudu'': 46; Ibn Mace, Tahara: 35)
72-) According to the narration from Urve (radiyallahu anh), Aisha (radiyallahu anha) informed that she was bathing in the same vessel with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 35; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 48)
73-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Jabr (radiyallahu anh), he said: Enes b. I heard from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he was saying: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to make ablution with one cup of water and wash with five bowls of water.) (Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 44; Bukhari, Wudu': 50)
74-) According to the narration from Umm Umara bint Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wanted to make wudu. A vessel of water equal to two-thirds of a mudd was brought to him. Shu'ba says: I remember well that sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) washed and rubbed both his arms up to his elbows and wiped the inside of his ears, but I do not know how he wiped the outside of his ears.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 48; Bukhari, Vudu': 50)
75-) Umar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is evaluated according to intentions. Whatever everyone intends; That's what you'll get. Whoever's emigration is to Allah and His Messenger, then his emigration is to Allah and His Messenger. Whoever emigrated for the world, he gets it, or if he migrated for a woman, he marries her. In other words, everyone's migration is to what they migrated to. (Bukhari, Iman: 47; Muslim, Imara: 45)
76-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) once, the time for the afternoon prayer was getting short, the people looked for ablution water but they could not find it. They brought a little water to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) in a bowl, put his hand in this bowl and ordered people to take their ablutions from that bowl. I saw that the water was boiling under his fingers, and this boiling continued until all those present had made ablution.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 49; Muslim, Fedail: 3)
77-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the people could not find water for ablution, some water was brought in a bowl. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) put his hand in the bowl, and at that moment I saw the water boiling between his fingers. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Run to clean water and blessings from Allah! A'mash said: This hadith was told to me by Salim b. Ebî'l Câ'd narrated and said: I asked Jabir how many people were you that day. (One thousand five hundred) he said. (Muslim, Fedail: 3; Bukhari, Voodoo'': 49)
78-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Some of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sought water to make ablution. She asked. Some water was brought, he put his hand in that water and said: Make ablution with his name. I saw water gushing out between the fingers of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Constant says: I said to Enes, you can guess how many people there were. He said it was seventy. (Bukhari, Voodoo: 49; Muslim, Fedail: 3)
79-) Urve b. Mughira (radiyallahu anh) narrates from his father: On the day of his expedition, while the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was making wudu, I poured the water of wudu, and he wiped it over his loins.) (Bukhari, Wudu'': 51; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 84)
80-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Shall I tell you how the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed wudu? He would perform ablution by washing his organs once.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 23; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 32)
81-) Muttalib b. Abdullah b. According to the narration from Hantab (radiyallahu anhum): b. Umar made wudu by washing his wudu organs three times and he meant that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would have made wudu in this way.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 25; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 46)
82-) According to the narration from Mugîre (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We were on a journey with him (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). I changed my way with him. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came to the ground, he made his camel kneel down and left a little to meet his toilet needs. Ravi says: He went away until he disappeared, then he came and asked: Is there any water? I brought the water bowl next to me and I started pouring the water for wudu. He was going to wash his hands and face, he was going to wash his arms, but he was wearing a robe made of damask fabric with narrow sleeves, his hands were He took it out from under his robe and washed his face and arms. The narrator of the hadith also mentions the forehead and turbans of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Ibn Avn says: I could not memorize them as desired. Then he anointed over his melons and then said: do you need it? I said: Messenger of Allah! I said I don't need anything. Then we came to the caravan and at that moment Abdurrahman b. Awf became the imam of the congregation and led one rak'ah of the morning prayer. I wanted to inform the Imam that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) had arrived, but he prevented it. We performed one rak'ah together with the congregation, and the other rak'ah we could not reach by ourselves.) (Muslim, Tahara: 22; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 10)
83-) Evs b. Evs narrates from his grandfather: I saw him washing his ablution organs three times.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 34; Bukhari, Vudu'': 25)
84-) Humran b. According to a narration from Eban (radiyallahu anh), he said: b. I saw Affan doing ablution, he washed his hands three times by pouring water, then he took water in his mouth and rinsed it, then he took water into his nose, then he washed his face three times, then he washed his right hand up to his elbow three times, then his left hand three times. Then he wiped his head, then washed his right foot three times and his left foot in the same way, and said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) making wudu just like this one," and continued: Who performs ablution like I did this ablution, then two If he performs a rakat prayer and does not bring anything worldly to his mind in this prayer, Allah forgives his past sins.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 25; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 46)
85-) Humran b. According to the narration from Eban (radiyallahu anh), he was Osman b. He had seen Affan and he had asked for water for ablution. The brought captain poured water on his hands and washed them three times. Then he put his right hand into the container where the wudu water was kept, poured water into his mouth and rinsed it, then poured water into his nose and then washed his face three times. He washed both his hands up to his elbows three times, wiped his head, then washed each of his feet three times; He said, "I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performing wudu like this," he continued: "If he performs ablution like this, and then prays two rak'ahs, if he does not think of anything worldly in this prayer, Allah will forgive his past sins.) (Bukhari, Voodoo: 25; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 46)
86-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: A person who takes it should first draw water into his nose and then blow his nose.) (Bukhari, Voodoo': 26; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 21)
87-) Asim b. Lakît b. According to the narration from the father of Sabre (radiyallahu anh), he said: O Messenger of Allah! I said tell me about ablution. He said: Wash all your organs thoroughly, and inhale well when you are not fasting.) (Abu Dâvûd, Savm: 27; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 44)
88-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he makes wudu, he should clean his nose, and if he uses a stone for cleansing, let him make only the number of stones.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 21; Ibn Majah , Tahara: 44)
89-) Salama b. According to the narration from Qays (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Make sure to clean your nose when you take it, and if you use a stone for cleaning, make the number of stones one.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 21; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 44)
90-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he wakes up from his sleep and performs ablution, he should clean his nose three times because the devil spends the night in the nose.) (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 11; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 44)
91-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abu Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he once asked for water to make wudu, rinsed his mouth, rinsed his nose with water, cleaned his nose with his left hand, and did this cleaning three times: That's how clean it is) he said. (Bukhari, Voodoo: 20; Muslim, Tahara: 18)
92-) According to the narration from Abdi Hayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: Ali b. We came to Abi Talib. He had prayed. He asked for ablution water. What will we do with the ablution water? We said, 'He has just started his prayer, I guess he will teach us how to make wudu'. A vessel containing water and a basin were brought. That captain poured water on his hand and washed his hands three times, then rinsed his mouth three times with the hand from which he took water from the captain and poured water into his nose three times. Then he washed his face three times, washed his right hand three times and his left hand three times and wiped his head three times, washed his right foot three times and then his left foot three times and said: This is what pleases anyone to know how sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed ablution; It is the wudu of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 29; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 36)
93-) According to the narration of Abdi Hayr from Ali (radiyallahu anh), they brought Ali a chair. He sat on the chair, then asked for a bowl with water in it, tilted the bowl and poured water on his hand three times. Then he poured water into his mouth and nose three times with one hand. He washed his face three times and washed his arms three times. He took some water and wiped his head. (As the narrator of the hadith, Shu'ba, was describing the act of anointing his head), he took his hand from his forehead to his neck and said: Did he bring it to the front again?) I don't know. Then he washed both his feet three times and then: Whoever makes him happy to see the wudu' performed by him is his ablution.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 29; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 36)
94-) According to the narration from Abdi Hayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: I met Ali once, he asked for a chair, he sat on it. Then he asked for a bowl of water, washed his hands three times, then rinsed his mouth with water, poured water into his nose three times with one palm, then washed his face three times, and washed his hands three times. Then he put his hand in the bowl and wiped his head, then washed his feet three times and said: Whoever makes ablution the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) makes him happy, this is it; It is the way of making wudu of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 37; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 50)
95-) Husayn b. According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: Ali b. Abi Talib asked me for water to make wudu, and I brought it. Before starting to perform ablution, he washed his hands three times without touching his rough hands, then rinsed his mouth three times, rinsed his nose three times and blown his nose, then washed his face three times, then washed his right hand up to his elbows three times in the same way, washed his left hand three times and washed his head. anointed once. Then he washed his right foot up to the heel three times and washed his left foot in the same way, got up and said: Give me the bowl) and drank the water left over from ablution standing up. I was amazed too. Seeing that I was amazed, he meant that he drank water while standing by saying: "Don't do it, your grandfather, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), saw what I was doing.)" (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 37; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 50)
96-) According to the narration from Abu Hayya (also called Ibn Qays) (radiyallahu anh), he said: I saw (radiyallahu anh) performing ablution and he washed his hands cleanly. Then he poured water into his mouth three times, then watered his nose three times, washed his face three times, washed his arms three times, then anointed his head. Then he washed his feet up to his heels, stood up and drank the rest of the wudu' standing up, and said: "I wanted to show you how the Prophet (pbuh) performed wudu." (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 37; Abu Davud, Tahara: 50)
97-) Amr b. Yahya al-Mazini (radiy-Allâhu anh), narrated from his father, said: Amr b. He asked Yahya's grandfather: Can you describe to me how my father, sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed ablution? Abdullah b. Zayd said: He asked for water for wudu, they brought it, poured it on his hands, and washed his hands twice, then poured water into his mouth and nose three times, then washed his face three times. Then he washed his hands up to the elbows twice, then wiped his head with both hands and brought his hands from front to back and back to front; he started from the front of his head and then brought his hands to his neck. Then he brought his hands back to where he started, then washed his feet. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 50; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 51)
98-) Amr b. Yahya (radiyallahu anh) quotes it from his father. His father, Amr b. Yahya's grandfather, Abdullah b. Zayd b. He said to Asim: Is it possible to show me how sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed ablution? Abdullah b. Zayd said: He asked for water for ablution, they brought it. He poured the water on his right hand and washed his hands twice, then poured water into his mouth and nose three times. Then he washed his face three times, then washed his arms up to his elbows twice, then wiped his head with both hands. He brought his hands from front to back and back to front, starting first at the front of his head, then moving his hands to the back of his head. Then he brought it back to where it started and then washed its feet.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 50; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 51)
99-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh) (who sees in a dream what the call to prayer is like), he said: I saw sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam performing ablution, he washed his face three times, washed his arms twice, his feet twice, and wiped his head twice. .) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 51; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 50)
100-) According to the narration from Abu Abdillah Salim Sabalan (radiyallahu anh), he said: (radiyallahu anha) employed this person for wages and liked to hand over his trusts to him. He showed me how he made ablution; He took water in his mouth and nose three times, washed his face three times, then washed his right hand and three left hands three times, then he placed his hand on the front of his head and anointed the back of his head once, then brought his hands towards his ears, then rubbed them on his cheeks.) He says: When I came to Aisha, I was a slave, that is, the slave who was bargained to pay a certain fee and then be released [so he would not hide from me, he would sit next to me and talk to me as well. One day I came to him and said: Mother of the believers, pray for me for blessings. (What happened, what no?) he asked. I said: He helped me and I paid my debts and regained my freedom. Thereupon, he prayed: May he bless you for your liberation) and drew the curtain between him and me. After that day, I did not see Aisha again. (Only Nasai narrated it.)
101-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), I saw him performing ablution, he washed his hands, then poured a handful of water into his mouth and nose, washed his face, and washed his hands one by one. He anointed his head and ears once.) Abdulaziz says: The one who heard from Aclan informed me and said: He washed both his feet.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 50; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 52)
102-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: He started to perform ablution, took a handful of water and put it in his mouth and nose, then took another handful of water and washed his face, then took another handful of water and left he washed his arm, then took another handful and washed his left arm, then anointed his head, with his index finger inside his ears, and outside; anointed with his thumb. Then he took a handful of water and washed his right foot, and again a handful of water and washed his left foot.) (Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 50; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 52)
103-) According to the narration from Abdullah es Sunabihi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When a servant makes wudu and puts water in his mouth, the sins he committed through his mouth are gone, and when he puts water in his nose, the sins he committed with his nose are gone. When he washes his face; The sins he committed with his face, all the way to the bottom of his eye lashes, are poured out. When he washes his hand; All the sins that he committed with both hands, from the fingertips to the nail, are gone. The moment he anointed his head; All the sins that he has committed with his head and ears are poured out. When he washes his feet; The sins he committed with his feet are gone, even under his toenails. As for walking to the mosque and praying; wipes away all his other sins.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 2; Muslim, Tahara: 11)
104-) According to the narration from Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I saw sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wiping over his loins and turban.) (Muslim, Tahara: 23; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 57)
105-) Again, according to the narration from Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I saw sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam anointing over his loins.) (Muslim, Tahara: 23; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 59)
106-) Again, according to the narration from Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh), he narrated as follows: I saw sall-Allâhu alaihi wa sallam wiping over his turban and his loins.) (Muslim, Tahara: 23; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 59)
107-) Muğira b. According to the narration from Shu'ba (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he performed ablution and lavished his forehead on his turban and his turban.) (Muslim, Tahara: 23; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 57)
108-) Hamza b. Mugir b. Shu'ba, quoting from his father (radiy-Allâhu anhum) says: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stayed behind on a journey. I was left behind with him, he saw the need for the toilet and asked: Is there water?). So I brought him a bowl of water. He washed his hands, washed his face, then tried to remove his hand from the sleeves of his robe, but because the sleeves of the robe were narrow, he could not take it off, throwing his arms over his shoulder and removing his hand from the lower part, washed his arms. He also anointed his turbans and his turbans with his forehead.) (Muslim, Tahara: 23; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 57)
109-) Muğîre b. Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh) relates: There is a peculiarity that after seeing them from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), I did not feel the need to ask anyone else;
110-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), Kasım (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Shame on anyone who does not wash their heels while buying, will suffer from the fire.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 30; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 31)
111-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a group of people who were performing wudu'. When he realized that his heels were dry, he said: Those who do not wash their heels thoroughly while making wudu will draw them from the fire. While making ablution, make ablution completely by taking the water everywhere.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 30; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 31)
112-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); He liked to start from the right in cleaning, putting on his shoes, and combing his hair.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 32; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 42)
113-) It was transferred from Kaysi (radiyallahu anh). Kaysi was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey. Ablution water was brought to him. Kaysi continued his words as follows: He poured water on his hands, washed his hands once, and washed his face and arms once again. He washed both of his feet with his right hand.) (Only narrated by Nasai.)
114-) Asim b. Lakît (radiy-Allâhu anh) relates from his father and says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: While you are taking your wudu' completely and completely, reach the water all over you and rub between your fingers (with the crescent). (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 30; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 54)
115-) According to the narration from Abu Hayya al-Wadi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Ali b. I saw Abi Talib performing ablution; He washed his palms twice, poured water into his mouth and nose three times, washed his face three times, washed his arms three times each, and anointed his head. He washed his feet three times and said: this; It is the way of making wudu of the Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him). (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 36; Abu Davud, Tahara: 51)
116-) Osman's slave Humran (radiyallahu anh) reported: Osman asked for water to make wudu and began to perform wudu three times. He washed his arm up to his elbow three times, then his left arm in the same way and wiped his head. Then he continued: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he makes wudu like the one I did and then gets up and prays two rak'ahs, and if he does not make a worldly profit in this prayer, Allah will forgive his past sins.) (Bukhari, Wudu': 25; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 57)
117-) Ubayd b. According to the narration from Jurayc (radiyallahu anh), he said: I said to Ibn Umar: I saw him wearing the shoe called sabbath and performing ablution. “I saw him doing ablution while wearing io shoes,” he said. (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 31; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 50)
118-) Cerir b. It was narrated by Abdillah (radiyallahu anh). He once made wudu and wiped over his mews. Are you just anointing him? It was said. He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) wiping over his lofts. This statement of Cerir would please Abdullah's friends. Jarir became a Muslim close to the death of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Bukhari, Voodoo: 51; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 84)
119-) Amr b. It was narrated from the father of Umayya et Damri (radiyallahu anh). He himself saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performing wudu and wiping over his lofts. (Bukhari, Voodoo: 51; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 84)
120-) Usama b. According to a narration from Zayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and Bilal entered a street. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) went to meet his toilet needs and then came back. Usama says: I asked Bilal what the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) was doing. He also said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) he needed to go to the toilet, then he made wudu, washed his face and hands, wiped his head and his lofts, and prayed.) (Only Nasai narrated.)
121-) Sa'd b. Abi Vakkas (radiy-Allâhu anh) says: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam anointed his lofts.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 51; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 84)
122-) Again Sa'd b. According to the narration from Abi Waqqas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: there is nothing wrong with wiping over melancholy. (Bukhari, Voodoo: 51; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 84)
123-) Muğîre b. According to a narration from Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) went out to meet his need for the toilet, when he returned, I greeted him with a bowl of water, I poured it out, he washed his hands and face, then he wanted to wash his arms. Since the sleeves of the robe were narrow, he took his sleeves out from under the robe and washed it, then wiped over his cloaks and led us in prayer. (Bukhari, Voodoo: 51; Muslim, Tahara: 23)
124-) Muğîre b. According to what Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh) narrated from his father, he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went out to meet his need for the toilet. Muğîre followed him with a bowl of water in it. After the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) took the toilet, he poured that water on him. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made wudu and wiped over his lofts.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 51; Muslim, Tahara: 23)
125-) Hamza b. Muğîre b. Shu'ba (radiy-Allâhu anh), quoting from his father, says: I was on a journey with him. Me: Muğîre, stay behind. O people, you continue) he said. So I stayed behind, I had a water bowl with me, the people went on their way. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) went away to need the toilet. When he came back, I approached him to pour ablution water. He was wearing a robe of Greek origin that had narrow sleeves. He wanted to take his hands off the sleeve of the robe, but he couldn't take it off because it was too narrow, and he took it out from under the robe, washed his face and hands, wiped his head, and anointed himself on his cloaks. (Muslim, Tahara: 22; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 59)
126-) Muğîre b. According to the narration from Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wiped his socks and shoes. Abu Abdurrahman says: I do not know anyone who fits this narration of Abu Qays. The correct narration is Muğîre's; (He anointed over the beggars) is the narration. (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 74; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 88)
127-) Saffan b. Assal (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) allowed us to keep our shrines for three days and three nights during the journey.) (Muslim, Tahara: 24; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 86)
128-) According to the narration from Zirr (radiyallahu anh), he said: Saffan b. I asked Assal about the ruling of wiping over the mest, and he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to order us to wipe over our mest while traveling for three days, due to conditions such as performing small ablutions, breaking ablutions, and sleeping, except for janaba. (Muslim, Tahara: 74; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 88)
129-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) spent three days and three nights for the traveler; He appointed one day and one night for a person who is not a traveller. (Muslim, Tahara: 24; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 86)
130-) Shurayh b. According to the narration from Hani (radiyallahu anh), I asked him (radiyallahu anha) about the ruling of anointing on mests, and he said to Ali, he is more knowledgeable than me. Then I came to Ali and asked about the ruling of anointing. After the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) anointed us, a person who is not a passenger for a day and a night, and for a traveler; He used to order that we could stay for three days and three nights without taking off their knuckles.) (Muslim, Tahara: 74; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 87)
131-) Nezzal b. According to the narration from Sabre (radiyallahu anh), he said: I saw Ali, he performed the noon prayer and sat down to listen to people's problems. When the afternoon came, they brought a water bowl, took a handful of water from it, wiped his face, arms, head and feet with it, then drank the rest of the water standing up and said: Some people do not like what I am doing. However, I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) doing this. This is the ablution of a person whose wudu is not broken. (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 37; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 45)
132-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: They brought a small bowl to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and he took ablution from it. Ravi I asked Enes: would he (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) perform ablution for every prayer? (Yes) he said. Ravi, I said: you too. Anas said: We will perform our prayers as long as it is not broken), then I said: We used to perform ablution for all prayers) (Muslim, Tahara: 25; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 44)
133-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came out of the toilet and food was prepared for him, and the people there said: Shall we bring water? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I am commanded to perform ablution when I am going to pray. (Muslim, Tahara: 25; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 44)
134-) Ibn Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrates from his father: He used to perform ablution for every prayer. On the day of the conquest of Makkah, he performed his prayers with a single ablution. Then 'Umar: Allah's Apostle! You did something you haven't done before) when you say; He said, (I did it on purpose, O Omar). (Muslim, Tahara: 25; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 44)
135-) Referee (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated from his father, saying: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) when he makes wudu, take a handful of water and sprinkle it on his clothes. explaining this: he would sprinkle water on the ground near his place). I told Ibrahim about this situation and he was astonished. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 58; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 38)
136-) Referee b. According to the narration from Sufyan (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I saw him sprinkle water on his private parts after making wudu.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 58; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 38)
137-) According to the narration from Abu Hayya (radiyallahu anh), he said: I saw that he washed his wudu organs three times and made wudu three times, then he got up and drank the rest of the wudu' water and said: "Sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) did the same as I did.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 37; Abu Davud, Tahara: 50)
138-) Avn b. Abi Juhayfa (radiyallahu anh) narrated from his father: I was with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Bilal took out the water left over from the wudu of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), and people rushed to get it from him. I also took some. I planted a sutrah in front of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) because he would lead the prayer. Even though donkeys, dogs and women passed in front of him, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led the congregation in prayer.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 110; Bukhari, Vudu': 42)
139-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I was sick when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and Abu Bakr came to visit me. They found me unconscious. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) performed wudu and sprinkled wudu water on me. (Bukhari, Voodoo: 42; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 38)
140-) Abu'l Melih (radiy-Allâhu anh) quotes from his father and says: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He never accepts prayers without wudu and theft never accepts charity.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 1; Muslim, Tahara: 2nd)
141-) Amr b. Shuayb (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrates from his father and grandfather: A Bedouin came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and asked him how to make wudu. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) showed him how to make wudu by washing the ablution organs three times and said: This is done, and whoever tries to do more than what I have done will have committed a sin, gone excessively, persecuted and wronged.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 48; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 45)
142-) Abdullah b. Ubeydullah b. According to the narration from Abbas (radiyallahu anhum), he said: Abdullah b. We were sitting next to Abbas and he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not order us apart from other people except three things;
143-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Perform ablution completely and completely.” (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 49; Bukhari, Voodoo': 30)
144-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Shall I tell you with what he wipes away sins and raises ranks? To perform wudu in the most beautiful way despite all kinds of difficulties, to increase the steps when going to the mosque to pray, to wait with great desire to perform the next prayer after one prayer. All of these are your greatest jihad regarding worship. These are your greatest jihad in worship. These are your greatest jihad in worship.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 50; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 39)
145-) Asim b. It is quoted from Sufyan as-Sakafi (radiyallahu anh): They participated in the battle of Salasil, the war prevented them from some things. They fought and then returned to Muawiyah. Alongside Muaviye, Abu Ayyub and Ukbe b. There was the chief. Asim said: Abu Ayyub, this war has prevented us from many things this year. However, we heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) that if he prays in these four mosques (Mecca, Medina, Jerusalem and Quba), his sins will be forgiven. Thereupon, Ayyub; O son of my brother, shall I tell you what is easier than this? I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: Whoever performs ablution as ordered and prays as ordered, his past sins will be forgiven. Isn't that right, O Uqba? Uqbe b. Amir said: It is. (Dârimî, Tahara: 27; İbn Mâce, İkamat-üs Salat: 193)
146-) Osman b. Affan (radiy-Allâhu anh) quotes the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as follows: If he performs his ablution well as instructed and performs the five daily prayers in the same way, this will atone for his sins between wudu and prayer.) (Muslim, Tahara: 4; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 57)
147-) According to the narration from Uthman (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard him say the following: If a person performs his wudu well and prays as ordered, his sins between the two prayers will be forgiven.) (Muslim, Tahara: 4; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 57)
148-) Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiyallahu anh) says: Amr b. I heard Abese (radiy-Allâhu anh) say: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (how to make wudu), he said: “When you wash your hands and clean them thoroughly when you make wudu, the sins you have committed with your hands will come out between your fingers and between your nails. When you rinse your mouth with water and rinse your nose with water and clean your nose, wash your face and arms up to the elbows, wipe your head and wash your feet up to the heels, you will be cleansed of all your sins. If you put your face in prostration just for the sake of Allah, you will be cleansed of your sins like the day your mother gave birth to you.) Umama says: O Amr b. I said take a good look at what you said to the absurd, was it all said at once? He said: My age has advanced and my death is near, so I don't need to lie on behalf of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). My ears heard all these things I said from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and my heart memorized it.) (Muslim, Tahara: 11; Muwatta', Tahara: 6)
149-) Umar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He performs his ablution well and then: I testify that there is no other true god and that Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) is his servant and messenger. ) the eight gates of Paradise will open for him, and he can enter from whichever he wishes.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 41; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 64)
150-) According to the narration from Abu Hazim (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was behind Abu Huraira when he was making ablution, he washed his arms almost up to his armpits. Thereupon, I asked: Abu Huraira, what kind of ablution is this? He said to me: Son of Ferruh, are you here? If I had known you were here, I would not have done ablution like this. I heard my friend Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: His adornment (the shine of the wudu organs on the Day of Judgment) is up to the places where wudu water reaches.) (Muslim, Tahara: 12; Muwatta', Tahara: 6)
151-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) stopped by a cemetery and said: "Peace be upon you, community of believers... We will join you"; (I am glad to see my brothers) he said. Those there: Allah's Apostle! Aren't we your brother? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: You are my Companions, but my brothers have not come yet. I will wait for them by the Kevser pool). They said: How do you know who will come after you? Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Let's see if a man has a horse with a white forehead and white legs among black horses, wouldn't he recognize him? At that time, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: My brothers and sisters who will come after me will shine brightly on the Day of Judgment due to their wudu, and their wudu organs will come there with a rusty shine. I will meet them by the Kevser pool.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 66; Muslim, Tahara: 12)
152-) Uqbe b. According to the narration from Amir al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Whoever performs ablution well and then turns his heart and direction towards Allah, that is, for the sake of Allah, there are two If he prays one rakat, Paradise becomes obligatory for him.) (Muslim, Tahara: 39; Muwatta', Tahara: 6)
153-) Ali b. Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh) narrates: Mezi would often come, and the daughter of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) was at my wedding. That's why I was ashamed to ask the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about Mazzi's condition. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When he comes, he has to make wudu. (no ghusl is required)) they said. (Muvatta', Tahara: 13; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 82)
154-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: To (radiyallahu anh); He said, "What should a person do if he plays with his wife without having sexual intercourse and if he has a mezzi in this situation?" Ask this question to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) I said, 'I am ashamed to ask because his daughter is my wedding. He also asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) also said: He washes his organ and performs wudu like prayer.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 82; Bukhari, Ghusl: 13)
155-) Ali b. Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh) narrates: I would often receive mezes from me. Ammar b. I asked Yasir. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is enough to take it. (Bukhari, Ghusl: 13; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 82)
156-) Rafi' b. According to the narration from Hadic (radiyallahu anh), he said: Ali b. Abi Talib asked Ammar to ask the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about mezes. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: wash his organ and perform ablution. (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 82; Bukhari, Ghusl: 13)
157-) Miqdad b. According to the narration from Aswad (radiyallahu anh), he said: Ali b. Abi Talib said to Mikdad: What should he do if a man approaches his wife and she has a mezzi? I said, "Ask the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) about this." He said, "The daughter of the Messenger of Allah, peace and blessings be upon him, is in my marriage, I am ashamed to ask." Mikdad says: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) about this situation and he said: When one of you sees a mezzanine, he should wash his genitals and perform ablution like prayer.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 82; Bukhari, Ghusul: 13)
158-) Ali b. Abi Talib (radiyallahu anh) narrates: I was ashamed to ask the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about mezi because I was married to Fatima. Miqdad b. I asked him to ask Esved, and he did. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: wudu is sufficient. (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 82; Bukhari, Ghusl: 13)
159-) Zirr b. According to the narration from Hubaysh (radiyallahu anh), he said: Safwan b. I came to talk to someone called Assal, I sat in front of his door. When he came out of his house and saw me, he said, "What are you doing?" I said: I came to learn) and he said: Those who want to learn knowledge spread their wings to that person because they are satisfied with this job. What would you like to learn?) I said: I would like to learn about the ruling of anointing on him). He said: While we were on a journey with sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) he used to order us not to take off our mestizos for three days and three nights, except for janaba, for three days and three nights due to minor ablution, ablution and sleeping.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 71; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 84)
160-) Zirr b. According to the narration from Hubaysh (radiyallahu anh), he said: Safwan b. Assal said: When we went on a journey with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), apart from being junub; He ordered us not to take off our mash for three days and three nights because of sleep, small ablution and great ablution. (That is, we would not take it off for three days by wiping over our mests, only the junub person would take off their mestches to make ghusl.) Tahara: 71; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 84)
161-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked whether the wudu' was invalidated during the prayer (due to the voices in his stomach), and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: they ordered. (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 56; Abu Davud, Tahara: 82)
162-) According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he wakes up from sleep, he should not dip his hand in the water bowl until he washes his hand three times, because he cannot know where his hand has touched during his night sleep.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 19) ; Muvatta', Tahara: 2)
163-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he falls asleep during prayer, he should stop praying because he can curse himself without realizing it.) (Bukhari, Voodoo' 56; Tirmidhi, Salat: 263)
164-) Urve b. As reported from Zubayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: Marwan b. I went to the referee. We were talking about ablution. Marwan said: It is necessary to make wudu to touch his organ. And I said: I don't know the subject). Marwan said: Busre bint Safwan; He told me that he heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saying: When he touches his genital organ, he should perform ablution. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 70; Muwatta', Tahara: 15)
165-) Urve b. According to the narration from Zubayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: While Marwan was the governor of Medina; He said that anyone who touches the genital organ with his hand should perform ablution. I did not accept this and said: 'A person who touches his organ does not need to make wudu.' I continued to argue with Marwan until I heard from him this hadith, which he sent to Busra and transmitted to him by calling one of his guards. (Muwatta', Tahara: 15; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 70)
166-) Talk b. Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), narrating from his father, says: We set out as a delegation and came to the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). We accepted his political authority and prayed together. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) finished the prayer, a bedouin-like person came and said: He said, "O Messenger of Allah! If someone touches his genitals during prayer, will his prayer and ablution be invalidated?" The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied, "Isn't it a part of your body?" (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 61; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 64)
167-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would perform the tahajjud prayer at home at night, and I would lie down in front of her as if the funeral was extended. When he was going to perform witr, he would poke me with his foot and wake me up.) (Bukhari, Salat: 22; Muslim, Salat: 51)
168-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: You could see me lying down in front of sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) would perform the tahajjud prayer at night, and when he wanted to prostrate, he would poke my feet, and I would pull my feet towards me. He also prostrated. (Bukhari, Salat: 22; Muslim, Salat: 51)
169-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: I used to sleep in front of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and my feet were in the direction of the qibla where he would prostrate. When he prostrated, he would touch me and I would gather my feet towards myself, and when he got up from prostration, I would stretch my feet. There were no oil lamps in the houses in those days.) (Bukhari, Salat: 22; Muslim, Salat:51)
170-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: I realized that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was not with me at night, I started looking for him with my hand, my hand touched his feet. : from your wrath to your consent, from your punishment to your forgiveness, I seek refuge in you from you. I cannot praise you properly, you are as you praise yourself.) (Bukhari, Salat: 22; Muslim, Salat: 51)
171-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) kissed some of his wives and then prayed without making wudu. Abdurrahman says: Although this hadith is mursal, there is no better hadith on this subject.) This hadith was quoted by Habib b. It was narrated from Aisha through Abi Thabit and Urwa. el Kattan; He narrated to us this hadith that Habib narrated from Urve and Aisha, and the hadith (It is not necessary to perform ablution even if the drops of blood fall on the prayer mat) narrated by the same people. (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 63; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 69)
172-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard him say: Perform ablution after eating something cooked.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 66; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59). )
173-) Again, Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: Make wudu after eating something cooked.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 66; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59)
174-) Ibrahim b. According to the narration from Kariz (radiyallahu anh), he said: I saw Abu Hurayra performing ablution next to the mosque and he said: I ate dried cheese (kesh), so I make ablution. I heard that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered to perform ablution after eating something cooked in the fire.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 66; Tahara: 59)
175-) Muttalib b. Abdullah b. According to the narration from Hantab (radiyallahu anh), he says: Ibn Abbas says; Am I going to make wudu because something I know is halal in the Book of Allah and it is cooked in the fire? Thereupon, Abu Hurayra picked up pebbles from the ground, and I swear by the number of these pebbles, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "Make ablution after eating something cooked in the fire." (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 66; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59)
176-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Perform ablution after eating something that is cooked.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 66; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59)
177-) According to the narration from Abu Ayyub (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Perform ablution after eating anything cooked.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 66; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59).
178-) According to the narration from Abu Talha (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Make wudu after eating anything that is cooked.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 66; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59)
179-) According to the narration from Abu Talha (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Perform ablution after eating something cooked and fried.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 66; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59)
180-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: Make wudu after eating something cooked.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 66; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59)
181-) Abu Sufyan b. Said b. Ahnes b. Sharik (radiyallahu anh) narrates: I went to Umm Habibe, the wife of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and my aunt. Perform ablution after eating something cooked.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 66; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59)
182-) Abu Sufyan b. Said b. According to the narration from Ahnes (radiyallahu anh), Umm Habiba, one of the wives of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), said to her: Sevik drank (or made him drink) soup. I heard from ) that he said: eat something that is cooked and drink something that is cooked and make ablution.) (Ibn Maje, Tahara: 66; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59)
183-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ate the meat of a sheep from the forearm, at that time Bilal came and went to prayer with him without making wudu. (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59; Abu Davud, Tahara: 75)
184-) Süleyman b. According to a narration from Yesar (radiy-Allâhu anh), I went to Umm Salamah and she told me: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would have intercourse with his wives of his own free will without conflict, he would sleep until imsak time as junub and then intend to fast. . Umm Salama also told me the following along with this hadith: I prepared fried meat for sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), ate it and prayed without making wudu.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 75)
185-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I witnessed that sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ate bread and meat and then prayed without making wudu.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 75)
186-) Muhammed b. According to a narration from Munkadir (radiyallahu anh), he said: Jabir b. I heard Abdullah say: The last practice of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) regarding whether eating something cooked invalidates wudu is not to make wudu.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 59; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 75)
187-) Suveyd b. As Numan (radiyallahu anh) informed us, he said: I went on an expedition with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) in the year he was conquered. After he prayed, he asked for food to be prepared, and only roasted flour (kavut) was brought to him. He said it should be mixed with water and multiplied. It was done too. We ate together, after the meal, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) got up to perform the evening prayer, rinsed his mouth again without making wudu and prayed, and we did like him.) (Bukhari, Vudu'': 59; Muvatta', Tahara: 5 )
188-) According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked for water after drinking milk, rinsed his mouth and said: It is a fatty food.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 78; Ibn Mace, Tahara: 68)
189-) Kays b. According to a narration from Asim (radiyallahu anh), he said: When I became a Muslim, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered me to make a ghusl with water and sidr (soap). (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 131; Bukhari, Salat: 76)
190-) Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) narrates: Sumama b. Usal al-Hanafi went to a pool near the mosque and after making a ghusl, entered the mosque and said: I testify that there is no god but Allah, that he is the only one, that he has no partner, and that Muhammad is his servant and Messenger, and continued: I swear that the face I hated the most in the world was your face. But now I find your face cuter than any other face. I wanted to do Umrah, a mounted soldier caught me and prevented me from performing Umrah. What do you say about this?) he said. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) gave him the good news and ordered him to perform Umrah immediately. (Bukhari, Salat: 76)
191-) Ali (radiyallahu anh) narrates: I came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: Abu Talib is dead. (Go bury him) commanded. (But he died as a polytheist) I said. Again: bury him). When I buried Abu Talib and came to him, he said: (Abu Dawud, Cenaiz: 70)
192-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he sits between the hands and feet of his wife and has sexual intercourse, it becomes obligatory for him to make ghusl.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 111)
193-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he sits between the hands and feet of his wife and has sexual intercourse, it is obligatory for him to make ghusl.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 111)
194-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I would often receive mezes. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to me on this subject: wash your genitals when you see him coming, perform wudu like a prayer, and when semen flows with lust and excitement, make a ghusl.) (Bukhari, Ghusl: 13; Muvatta', Tahara: 13)
195-) Again, according to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I would often receive mezes. I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about this issue and he said: When you see him coming, wash your genitals and perform ablution. When semen comes in an excited and lustful state, make a ghusl.) (Bukhari, Ghusl: 13; Muvatta', Tahara: 13)
196-) Umm Sulaym (radiy-Allâhu anha) asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the condition of the woman who had a dream like a man’s dream and got pregnant. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If it has flowed, let him make a ghusl. (Bukhari, Ghusl: 22; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 107)
197-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Umm Sulaym was talking to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and I was sitting next to them. Umm Sulaym said: Messenger of Allah! Allah does not hesitate to reveal what is true and true. What do you think about whether a woman who dreams like men do and gets pregnant should not make ghusl?) The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him: He should make a ghusl. Aisha says: I said to Umm Sulaym: Can any woman have a dream like this and have an affair? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) turned to me and said: Let him be good, where does the similarity between a mother and her child come from?). (Bukhari, Ghusl: 22; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 107)
198-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha), a woman came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Allah does not hesitate to explain the truth. Is it necessary for a woman to make a ghusl when there is an eclipse? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: When you see semen coming, you make a ghusl. Thereupon, Umm Salama laughed and said: Will there be an outbreak? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: How and why does a child resemble his mother? (Bukhari, Ghusl: 22; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 107)
199-) According to a narration from Hawle bint Hakim (radiyallahu anha), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about the condition of a woman in a dream. He also said: If you see it, wash it.) (Bukhari, Ghusl: 22; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 107)
200-) According to the narration from Abu Ayyub (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is necessary to wash with water because of the water (semen) that comes out violently from his organ. Mace, Tahara: 110; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 81)
201-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: His semen is dark and white, while a woman's semen is thin and yellow. Whichever one prevails, the child resembles him.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 107; Muslim, Hayz: 7)
202-) According to a narration from Fatima bint Kays (radiyallahu anha) from the Banu Asad tribe of Quraysh, she says: : It is blood coming from the vein, stop the prayer when the menstrual blood starts, wash the blood on it when the menstrual blood ends and start praying). (Bukhari, Hayz: 29; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 115)
203-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Stop the prayer when the bleeding starts, and start the ghusl when the blood stops.) (Bukhari, Hayz: 9)
204-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: Habibe bint Jahsh had apologetic for seven years. He complained about his situation and was close to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is not menstrual blood, it is blood coming from the vein, make a ghusl and pray. (Bukhari, Hayz: 27; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 115)
205-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Zeynab bint Jahsh's sister, Abdurrahman b. Awf's wife, Umm Habibe bint Jahsh, had apology blood, apart from the menstrual blood. He asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to get information about his condition. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him: It is not menstrual blood, it is blood coming from a vein. When you run out of menstruation, perform ghusl and prayer. When menstruation begins, stop praying). Aisha says: Habiba used to make ghusl every time she prayed. Sometimes he used to wash in the laundry tub of his brother Zaynab in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Even though the redness of the blood made the water red, he would pray together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and this excuse would not prevent him from praying.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 115; Bukhari, Hayz: 27)
206-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the sister-in-law of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and Abdurrahman b. Awf's wife, Umm Habibe, had apologized for seven years apart from the menstrual blood, and she asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) for a fatwa; Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): blood is not menstrual blood, it is blood that comes from a vein. Perform ghusl and prayers). (Bukhari, Hayz: 27; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 96)
207-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) narrates: Umm Habiba bint Jahsh; He asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) for a fatwa, saying that there was also blood outside of menstruation. Perform ghusl and prayers). From that day on, Umm Habiba would perform ghusl for every prayer. (Bukhari, Hayz: 27; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 96)
208-) Again, according to the narration from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), Umm Habiba asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) the verdict of blood, other than menstrual blood. Aisha also said: I saw that the basin in which she was washing was red because of the blood. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied: Wait until your period of menstruation, and when that period is up, make a ghusl. (and pray)) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 116; Muslim, Hayz: 14)
210-) It is narrated from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha): In the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), blood was constantly coming from a woman. Umm Salama asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about this issue. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) replied: Let him see how many days and nights he had menstruation in the month before the illness, and let him stop praying for that many days in a month. If blood continues to flow after these certain days, let him wash, use a cloth to prevent the blood from flowing, and perform his prayers.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 116; Muslim, Hayz: 14)
211-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); Abdurrahman b. Awf's wife, Umm Habibe bint Jahsh, was bleeding from apology and could not be cleaned at all. This situation was presented to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He also said: blood is not menstrual blood. It is a pooled blood from the womb. Let him count the days of menstruation in normal times, let him leave his prayers for so many days, and make a ghusl for each prayer in the following days.) (Bukhari, Hayz: 27; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 96)
212-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Umm Habiba bint Jahsh has been apologetic for seven years. He asked the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and got the following answer: blood is not menstrual blood, it is a blood that comes from the vein, he ordered him to abandon the prayers as many as the number of menstruation days and then wash and pray. (Bukhari, Hayz: 27; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 96)
213-) Fatima bint Abi Hubaysh (radiy-Allâhu anha) narrates: I went to the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and complained about the constant bloodshed. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) told me: It is blood coming from a vein. Look at the number of menstruation days, do not pray as much as the number of those days, when the day is over, clean and perform your prayers). The word (Kur) here means menstruation. (Bukhari, Hayz: 27; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 96)
214-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), Fatima bint Hubaysh came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and asked: “I am a woman who constantly bleeds and cannot be cleaned, should I stop praying?” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: This is blood coming from a vein, not menstrual blood. According to the number of menstruation days, stop praying when the bleeding starts, and when the menstruation ends, wash the blood on you and perform your prayers.) (Bukhari, Hayz: 20; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 117)
215-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): In the time of sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he told a woman who bled outside of her menstrual days, that it was blood coming from a vein. He was ordered to delay the noon prayer and perform it together with the afternoon prayer, to make a ghusl for these two prayers, to delay the evening prayer and combine it with night prayer, to perform a ghusl, and to perform the morning prayer in a separate length.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 117; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 95)
216-) Jabir b. It was narrated from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh): When Asma bint Umays was in the postpartum period in a place called Zulhulayfa, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered Abu Bakr es Siddik to take a bath and intend for ihram. (Muslim, Hajj: 15; Ibn Majah, Menasik: 12)
217-) According to the narration from Fatima bint Abi Hubaysh (radiyallahu anha), she said: I had menstruation. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he has menstruation, his color will be black and it is known as such. In such a situation, stop praying. If there is any other (colored) blood, perform ablution because it is the blood coming from the vein.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 115; Bukhari, Hayz: 21)
218-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Fatima bint Abi Hubaysh had begun to menstruate, but the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to her: His blood is known as blackish. If the shed blood is of this nature, stop praying. If there is any blood other than this feature, perform ablution and pray.) (Muslim, Hayz: 14; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 115)
219-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Fatima bint Abi Hubaysh had menstruation. He asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “The Messenger of Allah! I am menstruating and I can never get clean, should I stop praying? It is not menstrual blood. When the days of menstruation come, stop the prayer and when it ends, wash the traces of blood on you and perform ablution because it is blood coming from the vein, it is not menstruation blood.) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked: Is it necessary? The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: No one should doubt that it is necessary). (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 115; Bukhari, Hayz: 21)
220-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: Fatima binti Abi Hubaysh: Allah's Apostle! I can't be cleaned, should I leave my prayer?) he asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is not menstrual blood, but blood that comes from a vein. When the day of menstruation comes, stop praying, when the day of menstruation has passed, wash the blood on it and pray). (Muslim, Hayz: 14; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 118)
221-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), Fatima bint Abi Hubaysh said: The Messenger of Allah! I cannot clean myself, should I stop my prayers?) Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is blood coming from the veins. When I read this hadith to him, Khalid said: It is not menstruation blood, stop praying when menstruation starts, clean the blood on them when the menstruation period ends and pray.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 118; Muslim, Hayz: 14)
222-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Do not take a bath in stagnant water when you are junub.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 109; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 36 )
223-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He should not urinate in stagnant water, then he can make a ghusl from it.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 50; Bukhari, Wudu': 73)
224-) Gudayf b. According to the narration from Haris (radiyallahu anh), he said: To Aisha (radiyallahu anha); I asked the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) at what time of night he would perform ghusl. Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said: she used to take a bath at the beginning of the night and sometimes towards the end of the night. I said: Praise be to Allah who made it easy. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 89; Muslim, Hayz: 6)
225-) Gudayf b. According to a narration from Haris (radiyallahu anh), he said: I went to Aisha (radiyallahu anha) and the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) was at the beginning of the night. or at the end? he used to ghusl. I asked. Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said: She used to make ghusl at both times, sometimes at the beginning and sometimes at the end.) So I said: Praise be to Allah who makes it easy. (Muslim, Hayz: 6; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 90)
226-) Abu's Samh (radiyallahu anh) narrates and says: I was serving to sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam. When he wanted to make a ghusl, he would say to cover me and cover me. I would shield him and cover him.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 113; Bukhari, Ghusul: 20)
227-) Umm Hani (radiy-Allâhu anha) says: On the day of his conquest, I came to the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him); I found him in a state of ghusl. Fatima was also hiding him with a curtain, so I saluted. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) asked, "Who is he?" I said (Umm Hani). When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) finished making a ghusl, he wore a dress and prayed eight rak’ahs.) (Bukhari, Ghusl: 21; Muslim, Hayz: 10)
228-) According to the narration from Musa al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh), he said: A vessel that could hold eight ritls of water was brought. Thereupon, she said: Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) used to tell me that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made a ghusl with so much water.) (Muslim, Hayz: 10; Bukhari, Ghusl: 3)
229-) Abu Salama (radiyallahu anh) narrates: I went to Aisha (radiyallahu anha); His foster sister was with him. He asked Aisha how the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) performed a ghusl. Aisha asked for a vessel containing an hour's worth of water, she made a ghusl by pulling a curtain between it, and poured water on her head three times. (Muslim, Hayz: 10; Bukhari, Ghusl: 3)
230-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): He used to make ghusl with a bowl full of water called Farak. I used to make ghusl using a bowl of water in the same way.) (Muslim, Hayz: 10; Bukhari, Ghusl: 3)
231-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to make ablution with one cup of water and perform ghusl with five bowls.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 42; Muslim, Hayz: 10)
232-) According to the narration from Abu Jafar (radiyallahu anh), he says: Jabir b. We were arguing about ghusl in the presence of Abdullah. Jabir said to us: One sa' of water is sufficient for washing.) We said: One sa' nor two sa' is not enough). Jabir said: "A lot of water was better than you, and it was enough even for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) whose hair was thicker than you." (Bukhari, Ghusl: 3; Muslim, Hayz: 11)
233-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: And the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to make a bath together from the water in a bowl called farak.) (Bukhari, Ghusul: 3; Muslim, Hayz: 10)
234-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and I would make ghusl from a vessel and take the water with our palms from that vessel.) (Bukhari, Ghusl: 3; Muslim, Hayz: 10)
235-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) said: and the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to make ghusl from a captain because of janaba.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 46; Bukhari, Ghusl: 3)
236-) Again, according to the narration from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: I remember that we were arguing for a water bowl while making a ghusl with her.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 46; Bukhari, Ghusl: 3)
237-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: And the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to make ghusl from a captain.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 46; Bukhari, Ghusl: 3)
238-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Maymuna told; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and he used to make ghusl from a captain.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 46; Bukhari, Ghusl: 3)
239-) According to Naim, the slave of Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh), Umm Salama was asked: Can she make a ghusl with her husband? He also said: If he is smart and good-natured, he will bathe). I remember that we used to wash ourselves in a dough bowl with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). (Muslim, Hayz: 10; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 46)
240-) Humayd b. According to the narration from Abdurrahman (radiyallahu anh), he said: I met a person like Abu Hurayra who had been together for four years, he said: He forbade him to break his ablution in a basin or similar vessels, and for the man to wash with the ghusl used by his wife and for the woman to wash with the ghusl used by the man. He took the clean water in the bowl with his palms and ordered them to bathe.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 47; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 40)
241-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and I used to take a bath by taking water from a vessel, he wanted to take a bath from the water before me and I would like to take it before him and wash and say: (Leave that bowl to me. I'll wash) And I would say: let me wash. (Muslim, Hayz: 10; Dârimi, Tahara: 68)
242-) According to the narration from Umm Hani (radiy-Allâhu anha): Salll-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and Maymune took water from a basin with traces of dough and bathed together.) (Muslim, Hayz: 10; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 46)
243-) Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), one of the wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), said: “The Messenger of Allah! I braid my hair too tightly, should I untangle my braids while I'm washing my hair? said. He also said: It is enough to pour three handfuls of water, then you pour it all over your body.) (Muslim, Hayz: 12; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 100)
244-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: We set out with him (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in the year of the farewell pilgrimage for Hajj and Umrah. I went into Ihram for Umrah. I reached Mecca even though I was menstruating, so I could neither circumambulate the Kaaba nor travel back and forth between Safa and Marwa. I was close to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about this situation; He also said: Untie your braids and comb them, enter the ihram for Hajj; Stop doing Umrah..) So I just did it. After completing my pilgrimage, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent me to Abdurrahman b. He sent him with Abu Bakr to the place of Miqat called Ten'im. I went into the ihram there and made my intention for Umrah. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me; He said, "This is the place where you will enter the ihram and intend to perform Umrah." (Bukhari, Hayz: 17; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 124)
245-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: A bowl full of water was prepared when she was going to take a bath in order to get rid of janabah. Before he put his hand into the pot, he would pour water on his hands until they were thoroughly cleaned, then he would put water in his right hand and pour water with it and clean the genitals with his left hand. When he finished this work, he would wash his hands by pouring water on his left and right hand, and then pour water into his mouth and nose three times. Afterwards, he would take water with his two palms and pour it on his head three times, and then wash his whole body.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 98; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 76)
246-) According to the narration from Abu Salama (radiyallahu anh), I asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha) how the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) made a ghusl because of janaba, and he said: He would pour water from the water bowl onto his hands three times. After cleaning his private parts, he would wash his hands again. Then he would water his mouth and nose, then pour water on his head three times, and then wash his whole body.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 98; Muslim, Hayz: 9)
247-) According to the narration from Abu Salama (radiyallahu anh), he said: I went to Aisha (radiyallahu anha) one day and asked her how the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was bathing because of his janaba. He also said: A vessel of water was brought to sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam); first he would wash his hands by pouring that container three times, then he would pour water on his right hand and his left hand and clean between his legs, then he would wash his hands again, give water to his mouth and nose, then he would pour water on his head three times and then wash the other parts of his body.) (Bukhari, Ghusl : 1; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 98)
248-) Ebû Salama b. According to the narration from Abdurrahman (radiy-Allâhu anh), Aisha told that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made a ghusl as follows: She washed her hands three times by pouring water from the bowl. Then he would pour water on his left hand with his right hand and wash the genital organ and its surroundings.) Omar says: I know this hadith as follows: He would pour water into his left hand with his hand three times, then pour water into his mouth three times and then wash his face three times by pouring water into his nose three times. Then he would pour water on his head three times and then wash his whole body.) (Muslim, Hayz: 9; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 98)
249-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), when the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was going to wash because of janaba, he would wash his hands and then perform wudu like prayer. Then he would put his hand in water, rub between his fingers, rub the roots of his hair, pour three handfuls of water on his head, and then wash his whole body with water.) (Bukhari, Ghusul: 1; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 76)
250-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) describes the ghusl that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) took to purify himself from janaba as follows: He would wash, make wudu, rub his hair so that the water reaches his scalp, and then wash his whole body.) (Bukhari, Ghusl : 1; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 67)
251-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): when she was going to make a ghusl due to janaba, she would pour water on her head three times after pouring water to the roots of her hair.) (Bukhari, Ghusl: 1; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 67)
252-) Jubayr b. According to a narration from Mut'im (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were arguing about ghusl in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), some of me said, 'I am bathing like this and that.) Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I pour three handfuls of water on my head. (Bukhari, Ghusl: 4; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 98)
253-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), a woman asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) how to wash himself in order to get rid of menstruation. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) told him how to wash, then he said: Take a piece of cloth and clean with it. This time, when the woman asked again: How will I clean with a cloth? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Cleanse with it. I pulled the woman aside and said that you would clean the blood dishes on her body. (Bukhari, Hayz: 15; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 124)
254-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would not make wudu for prayer unless his wudu was broken after ghusl. (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 79; Abu Davud, Tahara: 99)
255-) According to the narration from Maymune (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: I brought the water to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with which he would be cleansed from janabity. He first washed his hands two or three times, then put his right hand in the water bowl and poured water on his private part and left it on the left side. He washed it with his hand, rubbed it thoroughly after hitting the ground with his left hand, then made wudu like prayer. Then he poured three handfuls of water on his head, then washed his whole body, then came out of that area and washed his feet. I brought him a towel to be wiped, he refused. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 98; Muslim, Hayz: 9)
256-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) made a ghusl, a towel was brought to him, he did not touch it, and he said, "Let it stay wet like this." (Muslim, Hayz: 9)
257-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Amr says: While he was junub; He would perform ablution whenever he wanted to eat or sleep. Amr says in his narration: He used to make wudu like prayer. (Muslim, Hayz: 6; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 88)
258-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was junub, he would perform ablution when he wanted to sleep, and would only wash his hands when he wanted to eat. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 88; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 104)
259-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wanted to sleep while he was junub, he would make wudu, and when he wanted to eat or drink something, he would wash his hands and eat and drink. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 88; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 104)
260-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: If the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted to sleep while he was junub, he would perform ablution like prayer before going to sleep. (Dârimi, Tahara: 73; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 88)
261-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: I said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): Messenger of Allah! Can a person sleep even though he is junub? Said. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: yes, he can sleep if he takes it). (Dârimi, Tahara: 73; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 88)
262-) According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), Hz. Umar told the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) that he was junub at night. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: wash your organs, perform ablution and go to sleep. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 88; Dârimi, Tahara: 73)
263-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Angels of mercy do not enter the house where there are pictures, statues, dogs and a junub person.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 89; Muslim, Hayz : 6)
264-) Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh) reports that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he wants to repeat sexual intercourse with his wife, he should make wudu.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 86; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 10)
265-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to have sexual intercourse with all of his wives in one night and would be content with one ghusl. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 10; Bukhari, Ghusl: 12)
266-) Again, according to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to visit his wives for sexual intercourse and was content with a single ghusl. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 10; Bukhari, Ghusl: 12)
267-) Abdullah b. Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh) says: I and two other people came to Ali, and he told us the following: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he used to go out of the toilet, eat meat and recite the Qur’an with us. Nothing could prevent him from reciting the Qur'an except being junub.) (Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 91; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 111)
268-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would recite the Qur’an in all his situations, except for janaba.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 111)
269-) According to the narration from Huzayfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) met one of his Companions, he would make Musafaha with him and pray for goodness. I saw Him early one day and changed my way away from Him. When the day rose (having done my ghusl), I came to Him; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I saw it in the morning, you changed your direction and moved away from me, what is the reason? I said: I was, I was afraid that you would touch me). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It can never be dirty.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 89; Bukhari, Ghusul: 26)
270-) Again, according to the narration from Huzayfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When I was there, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came across me and took care of me and extended his hand. Me too: I said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It will never be unclean.) (Bukhari, Ghusl: 24; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 80)
271-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While I was junub, I met the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in one of the streets of Madinah and quickly got away from him and went to make a ghusl, and at that moment he lost me. When I came to him after a while, he said: O Abu Huraira! I said: Messenger of Allah! I said, 'You ran into me even though I was junub, and I did not like being with you without making a ghusl.) He said, "Subhanallah! A Muslim is not dirty." (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 80; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 89)
272-) Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) narrates: Once, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was in a mosque. To Aisha (radiyallahu anha): Aisha! He said, "Can you give me my clothes or prayer rug?" In Aisha (radiyallahu anha): I cannot pray; He said (I am menstruating). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: It is not in your hands. Thereupon, Aisha gave that material. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 105; Muslim, Hayz: 3)
273-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was in the mosque: Aisha! Give me my prayer mat) he called out. Me too: I said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: It is not in your hands. (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 104)
275-) According to the narration from Maymune (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to lean on us and recite the Qur'an even though we were menstruating. Again, even though we were menstruating, we used to lay a prayer mat in the masjid. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 104; Muslim, Hayz: 3)
276-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite the Qur'an while his head was in the lap of one of our wives. (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 104)
277-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was in Itikaf in the mosque, I used to put his head outside, and I used to wash his head even though I was menstruating. (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Bukhari, Hayz: 3)
278-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would take his head out of the mosque even though he was in Itikaf, and I would wash his head even though I was menstruating. (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Bukhari, Hayz: 4)
279-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: I used to comb the hair of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) even though I was menstruating. (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Bukhari, Hayz: 4)
281-) Transferred from Shureyh (radiyallahu anh). I asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha): Can she eat with her husband while she is menstruating? (Yes, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to invite me to dinner; I would eat it with him. Sometimes he would take a piece of meat and offer it to me, would you bite it? Then he wanted something to drink, offered it to me without drinking it himself, and I would drink from it and leave the container I drank from, then he would take that container and drink it from where my mouth touched.) (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 125)
282-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to give me a soft drink when I was menstruating, and after I drank the rest, he drank from where my mouth touched. (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 125)
283-) According to the narration from Shurayh's father, he said: I heard Aisha (radiyallahu anha) say: Even when I was menstruating, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would give me the soft drink container first, and after I drank it. I would give it to him, and he would search where my lips touched and drank from there. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 125; Muslim, Hayz: 3)
284-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) narrates: I used to drink a soft drink and water and give it to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). He also drank from that container to drink from where my mouth touched. Again, although I was menstruating, I would bite a piece of meat and give it to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), and he would bite it from the place where I bit it.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 125; Muslim, Hayz:3)
285-) Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha) reported that she said: When I realized that I was menstruating while I was lying on the same bed with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) under the same sheet, I slowly got out of bed and put on my menstruation dress. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked: Have you been? (I said yes. He called me and we slept together under the same bed and sheets. (Muslim, Hayz: 2; Bukhari, Hayz: 22)
286-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: We were sleeping in the same bed with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) even though I was him. If he had menstruation blood from me, he would only wash that place and pray that way. Then he would come to me again and if something from me got on him again, he would clean the contaminated area and pray with it. (Muslim, Hayz: 2; Bukhari, Hayz: 22)
287-) According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would order one of our wives, who was menstruating, to wear the menstruation dress tightly, and he would accompany her.) (Muslim, Hayz: 2; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 99) )
288-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: One of the wives of the Prophet, when menstruating; The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to him; He would order her to wear her menstruation gown tightly, and then give her the blessings. (Bukhari, Hayz: 6; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 99)
289-) According to the narration from Maymune (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: Even when he was menstruating, he used to associate with his wives, even when they were menstruating, if they wore menstruation clothes up to their calves and knees.) (Muslim, Hayz: 2; Bukhari , Hayz: 6)
290-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When one of their wives was menstruating, the Jews did not eat and drink with them, and they would not be together in their homes. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked about this situation; thereupon God; He sent down the 222nd verse of the chapter of al-Baqara: They ask about the menstrual cycle of women. Say: It is a state of distress, impurity, and discomfort.) Therefore, do not take advantage of women's femininity during menstruation, stay away, and do not have sexual intercourse with them until they are cleansed. When they are cleaned, approach them as Allah has commanded…) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) informed them that they can eat and drink with menstruating women, be together in their homes, and do anything except sexual intercourse with their wives. (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Bukhari, Hayz: 1)
291-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered that if a man had sexual intercourse with his wife, knowing that he was menstruating, he should give one or half a dinar in charity as a punishment. (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 103; Abu Davud, Tahara: 106)
292-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: We set out with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) for the purpose of pilgrimage. When we arrived at the place called Serif, I had a period. While I was crying because of my situation, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to me and said: What is it? Are you menstruating?) they said. Me too: I said. Thereupon, they said: The feature of menstruation is a feature that Allah made for the daughters of Adam. For this reason, do all the things that need to be done except circumambulating in Hajj.) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sacrificed a cattle for his wives. (Tirmidhi, Hajj: 100; Bukhari, Hayz: 28)
293-) Cafer b. Muhammad (radiyallahu anh) says, quoting from his father: Jabir b. We came to Abdillah and asked about the pilgrimage of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). When we arrived at the place called Zulhuleyfe; Esma bint Umays Muhammed b. Abu Bakr gave birth. He sent a message to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and asked him how to act. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) replied: Wrap yourself in a cloth and bandage to prevent bleeding, then intend for ihram and fulfill the requirements of the pilgrimage.) (Muslim, Hajj: 15; Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 12)
294-) Adi b. According to a narration from Dinar (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard Umm Qays bint Mihsam asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about the menstrual blood that got on the clothes, and he got the following answer: rub it clean, then wash it thoroughly with soap and water. ) (Bukhari, Hayz: 14; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 104)
295-) According to the narration from Esma bint ebî Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anha), she narrated as follows: While I was sitting in my room, a woman asked for a fatwa about the menstrual blood smeared on her clothes. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said to him: Go dry, then rinse with water, rinse, and then perform the prayer.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 104; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 118)
296-) Muawiya b. It was narrated from Abi Sufyan (radiy-Allâhu anh): Umm Habiba herself asked Umm Habiba, one of the wives of the Prophet, as follows: Was she praying in the dress she was wearing during sexual intercourse? (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 83; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 133)
297-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: I was washing the semen marks on the clothes of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He also went out to pray even though the places I washed were wet and discolored.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 82; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 136)
298-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: I used to remove the najab stain on the clothes of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) – he said another time, by rubbing the semen stain.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 82) ; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 136)
299-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: I would not do anything else to remove the semen stain on her dress by rubbing it.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 82; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 136 )
300-) Again, according to the narration from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: I would only rub the semen stain on her (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) dress.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 82; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 136)
301-) Again, Aisha (radiyallahu anha) narrates and says: When I see a semen stain on the dress of sallallahu alaihi wa sallam. I would destroy it by scraping it.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 82)
302-) Again, Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) said: I would remove the semen stain that I saw on sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam’s dress by rubbing it.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 82; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 136)
303-) Again, Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) says: I would remove the semen stain that I saw on sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam’s dress by rubbing and rubbing it.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 82; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 136)
304-) It was narrated from Umm Kays bint Mihsan (radiyallahu anha). He came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) one day with his son, who did not eat. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made that child sit on his knee, and the child urinated on his clothes. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) asked for water and sprinkled that water on the place where the child urinated and did not wash his clothes. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 77; Bukhari, Voodoo'': 64)
305-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: A child was brought to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and that child urinated on the Prophet’s (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) clothes. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) brought water and poured it there. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 77; Bukhari, Voodoo'': 64)
306-) According to the narration from Abu's Samh (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: His child’s urine is washed and water is poured on the boy’s urine.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 137; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 177)
307-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), some people from the tribe of Ukl came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and talked about Islam and said: Allah's Messenger! We are nomadic people accustomed to living in the desert, we are not accustomed to settled life. They said they did not like the weather of Medina and were bored. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered them to be allocated a flock with their shepherd. Then he ordered them to go out of Medina with the camels and to drink the milk and urine of the camels. When these people regained their health, they became unbelievers again in that place called Harre; that is, they apostatized. They killed the shepherd of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and drove the camels away. When this situation reached the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he sent men in their footsteps. They were caught and brought before the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Since those people had to be killed by retaliation the way they killed the shepherd, their eyes were gouged out, their hands and feet were cut off, and then they were left to die in this way in a place called Harre.) (Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 125; Bukhari, Vudu': 72)
308-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), some people from the tribe of Urayna came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and became Muslims. Because the weather in Medina was not good for them, their colors turned yellow and their bellies swelled. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) sent them to the place where the milking camels were and ordered them to drink the milk and urine of those camels. When they were healthy, they killed the shepherd of the camels and drove the camels away. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) sent a detachment to catch them, they were caught and brought, because they had to be killed by retaliation as they killed the shepherd; Their eyes were gouged out, their hands and feet were cut off. Emir Abdulmalik told Anas, who narrated this hadith to him: Is it because people are punished in this way (irtidad) and disbelieved? Or is it because they sinned?) he asked. In Enes: because they are) he said. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 125; Bukhari, Voodoo'': 72)
309-) Amr b. According to a narration from Maymun (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abdullah b. Mas'ud told us the following in Baytul Mal: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was praying next to the Kaaba. A group from the Quraysh tribe was also sitting there. They had slaughtered a camel. One of them said: "He takes this camel's rumen with his blood. When he puts his face in prostration, he puts it on his back." Abdullah b. Mas'ud says: The most evil of those who were there ran, took the tripe away, waited for a while. When the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) reached prostration, he placed it on his back. The situation was reported to Fatima, the daughter of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Fatima, who was a child, came running and took the tripe from her father's back. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) finished his prayer, he said three times: I refer the Quraysh to You, O Allah! Ebû Cehl b. Hisham, Shayba b. Rabia, Utbe b. Rebia, Ukbe b. I refer you to Abu Muayt) and counted seven people from Quraysh. Abdullah b. Mas'ud says: I swear by Allah, Who sent the Book down to him, that I saw these seven people counted by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gathered in the pit called Kalib in the Battle of Badr. (Bukhari, Voodoo: 74; Muslim, Jihad and Siyer: 39)
310-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) grabbed one end of his robe, spat between them and rubbed each other. (Bukhari, Voodoo: 75; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 143)
311-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: While praying in the mosque, one of you should not spit in front of him or to his right. If he absolutely has to spit, let him spit to his left or under his feet. If he doesn't do this, let him do it like this; because the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) spit on his clothes and rubbed his clothes.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 143; Ibn Majah, Masacid: 10)
312-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: We went on one of the expeditions with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). When we came to the Beyda or Zat-ul-Jaysh region, my necklace disappeared. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) stopped there to look for him. Other people also camped with Him. It was not a head of water. There was no water with them. People came to Abu Bakr and said: Do you not see what Aisha did? It caused the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and people to stay in this waterless place. They have no water left. over; My father, Abu Bakr, came to me. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) fell asleep with his head on my knee. He said to me: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and you kept these people here in this waterless place, and they have no water with them. He says: Abu Bakr scolded me like this, said what he said and poked my side with his hand. The fact that the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) fell asleep on my knee prevented me from moving. Thereupon, Allah revealed the verse of tayammum. At that time Usayd b. Hudayr said: "Family of Abu Bakr, this is not your first blessing." (radiy-Allâhu anha) says: When we lifted the camel we were riding on, we found the necklace under the camel. (Bukhari, Tayammum: 1; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 90)
313-) Umayr, the slave of Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), heard Ibn Abbas say the following: Maymune's slave Abdullah b. We used to walk with Yesar and Abu Juheym b. Harris b. We went to Samme el Ansari. Abu Juhaym said: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) was wandering around the Well of Jamel. A man met the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and greeted him. Before the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) received the greeting of that person, he turned to the wall and wiped his face and hands against the wall, and then received that person's greeting. (Muslim, Hayz: 28; Bukhari, Tayammum: 2)
314-) Ibn Abdurrahman b. Ebza (radiyallahu anh) narrates from his father: A man came to Omar and said: I am junub and could not find water. Omar said not to pray. Thereupon, Ammar b. Yasir: O Commander of the Believers! Don't you remember? You and we were in a series, we were junub and we could not find water. Then, when he came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and told him about this situation, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It was enough for you to do it.” He struck the ground, then he blew on both his hands and wiped both his hands with his face. He doesn't know if it's up to the ankles or not. Upon Ammar's words, Omar says: We are bringing you to the position you deserve. (Muslim, Hayz: 28; Bukhari, Tayammum: 2)
315-) Ammar b. According to the narration from Yasir (radiyallahu anh), he said: When I was shepherding camels, I became junub and could not find water. I rolled on the ground like an animal rolls on the ground. Then I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and informed him of what I had done. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It was enough for you to do tayammum. (Bukhari, Tayammum: 3; Muslim, Hayz: 28)
316-) According to the narration from Ammar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stayed in a place called Ula't-ül Ceyş (Zat-ül Ceyş) with his wife Aisha. Her necklace made of zifar agate of the Yemen region was broken. Thereupon, people encamped there to look for the necklace. They searched until dawn but could not find them. There was no water with the people. Thereupon, Abu Bakr got angry with Aisha and said, "You have hindered people from their path, and they have no water with them." That's when Allah revealed the ease of ablution by tayammum with soil as a verse. Thereupon, the Muslims along with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up and slammed their hands on the ground. Then they raised their hands, and they did not blow or shake anything from the soil on their hands, they wiped their faces and their arms up to their shoulders, and from the bottom of their hands to their armpits. (Bukhari, Tayammum: 3; Muslim, Hayz: 28)
317-) Ammar b. According to a narration from Yasir (radiyallahu anh), he said: We used to do tayammum with the soil and wipe our faces and our arms up to our shoulders with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Bukhari, Tayammum: 5; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 93)
318-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Ebza (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were with Umar, a man came and O Commander of the Believers, we stay in one place for a month or two, become junub and cannot find water. Umar said: When I am junub and cannot find water, I do not pray until I find water. Thereupon, Ammar b. Yasir: O Commander of the believers! don't you remember He said, "You were on the ground and we were shepherding the camels, you know that we became junub". Omar said: I remember). Ammar said: "I rolled on the ground well, then came to the Prophet (pbuh) and told him what I had done, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) laughed and said: "Even one piece of soil was enough." . Omar said: O Ammar! When he said to be conscious of Allah's responsibility, Ammar said: O Commander of the Believers, if you wish, I will not tell anyone about this incident. Ömer said: No, you can say that, but because of your intelligence and talent, we are bringing you to the position you deserve. (Bukhari, Tayammum: 3; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 90)
319-) Ibn Abdurrahman b. Ebza (radiyallahu anh) narrates from his father: A man asked Umar about tayammum. Omer didn't know what to say. Then Ammar said: O Omar! Do you remember? We were in a military, I was junub and I rolled on the ground, then I came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and informed him of the situation. He also said that it is enough to do like this. Shu'bah slapped his hands on his knees and blew on both of his hands, wiping his face and hands once with both hands. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 91; Bukhari, Tayammum: 4)
320-) Again, Ibn Abdurrahman b. Ebza (radiyallahu anh) narrates from his father: A man came to Omar and said that I became junub and could not find water. Omar said: Do not pray. Then Ammar: Are you, O commander of the believers! We were together in a serial and became junub. You did not pray, so I rolled on the ground and prayed. When I came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and told him what I had done, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said that this much would be enough for you, and slammed his hands on the ground. He blew the earth in his hands. Then he rubbed the other with one hand and then wiped his face with both hands.) Then Omar said: I don't remember anything.) Then Ammar said: I will not tell anyone about this incident). (Muslim, Hayz: 28; Bukhari, Tayammum: 4)
321-) Again, Ibn Abdurrahman b. Ebza narrates from his father: A man came to Omar and said (I became junub and could not find water). Umar said to him: Do not pray. Then Ammar asked Omar: Are you? O commander of the believers, we were together in a pilgrimage and became junub, we could not find water, you did not pray, I rolled on the ground and then prayed. When he (later) came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and informed him of the situation, he said: "It is enough to do it," and he slammed both his hands on the ground. Then he blew the soil on his hands, and wiped his face and hands with both hands.) Abu Salama doubted about this and said: How much? I don't know if he anointed up to his wrists.) Then Omar said: We will bring you to an authorized position due to your intelligence and ability.) Shu'ba says: He wiped his face with his palm and his arms up to his wrists.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 91; Muslim, Hayz: 28)
322-) According to the narration from Shakîk (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Abdullah b. I was sitting with Mas'ud and Abu Musa. Abu Musa: Didn't you hear what Ammar said to Umar? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent me for a job. I became junub there and could not find water. After I rolled well on clean soil, I came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and explained the situation. He also said: "It was enough to do it" and hit the ground with both of his hands (later), he shook his hands, then wiped his right hand with his left hand and his left hand with his right hand, and then wiped his face.) Abdullah said: Wasn't Omar convinced by Ammar's word?) (Bukhari, Tayammum: 7; Muslim, Hayz: 28)
323-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a person who did not pray in congregation but prayed alone and said: What prevented you from praying in congregation? . Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Do tayammum with soil, it is enough for you. (Bukhari, Tayammum: 8; Dârimi, Tahara: 65)
324-) According to the narration from Abu Zer (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Even if there is no water for ten years, the soil is a Muslim’s ablution water.) (Bukhari, Tayammum: 5; Abu Dawud, Tahara) : 126)
325-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) told Usayd b. Hudayr and a group of people; He had sent her to look for the necklace that Aisha had lost in her accommodation. It's time for prayer. They were neither with wudu', nor could they find water, and they performed their prayers without wudu. Then they explained this situation to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and then Allah sent down the verse of tayammum. Usayd b. Hudayr says to Aisha: May he reward you with good deeds, something unpleasant happens to you, and it is a means of good for Muslims.) (Bukhari, Tayammum: 5; Dârimi, Tahara: 66)
326-) According to the narration from Tariq (radiyallahu anh), he said: A person became junub and did not pray. He came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and explained his situation, and said: You did. Yet another man became junub and performed tayammum and prayed. When he presented his situation to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said something similar to what he said to the other, that is, he said, "You did it right." (Bukhari, Tayammum: 5; Dârimi, Tahara: 66)
327-) It is narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): Some of the wives of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to make ghusl because of janaba. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to make wudu with the water left over from them. When they reported that that water was leftover from their ghusl, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is clean, no one who uses it will make it dirty.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 35; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 50)
328-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the following was said to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): The Messenger of Allah! Can we make ablution with the water of Buddha's well?) Floods and winds used to bring dog carcasses, menstruation glands and garbage into this well because they were in the well. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is clean, nothing makes the water dirty.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 50; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 35)
329-) Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh) narrates from his father and says: I stopped by the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), he was taking ablution from the well of Budaa. Do you take ablution from here too? However, I said that unpleasant filth can fall into this well. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Nothing gets dirty.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 50; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 55)
330-) Abdullah b. Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrates from his father and says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about the state of the water and the drinking habits of different animals that come under water. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 50; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 76)
331-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): A Bedouin urinated in a mosque and some of the Companions wanted to interfere with that person. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to him. When the Bedouin finished his work, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) brought a bucket of water and poured it on the urine. (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 61; Dârimi, Tahara: 62)
332-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: A Bedouin got up and urinated in the mosque. Some Companions wanted to lynch the Bedouin. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to them: Pour him a bucket of water over his urine, because you were sent not as a complicator, but as an facilitator). (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 61; Dârimi, Tahara: 62)
333-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he says: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: No one should bathe in stagnant water when he is junub.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 73; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 51)
334-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Messenger of Allah! When we travel by sea, we carry little water with us. If we do ablution with that water, we will become thirsty, so can we make ablution from sea water?) Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: His water is clean, and his dead body is halal. (Dârimi, Tahara: 53; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 52)
335-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray: Wash off my sins with hail and snow water. Cleanse my heart from sins as you cleansed the white dress from dirt.) (Bukhari, Deavat: 39; İbn Mâce, Dua: 3)
336-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray as follows: Cleanse and wash my mistakes and sins with snow, water and full water.) (Ibn Majah, Dua: 3 ; Bukhari, Salat: 8)
337-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If a dog gets in your bowl or licks it, pour out what is in that bowl and wash the bowl seven times.) (Bukhari, Wudu' ': 35; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 68)
338-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mugaffel (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said; He ordered all dogs to be killed except hunting and shepherd dogs and said: Wash the bowl that he licked seven times and rub it with soil on the eighth.) (Bukhari, Voodoo'': 35; Muslim, Tahara: 27)
339-) Again, Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mugaffel (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered that dogs be killed: What is the business of people…! What do people have to do with dogs…!) He allowed the hunting dog and shepherd's dog to be kept, and continued as follows: Wash the bowl he licked seven times and rub it with soil on the eighth.) (Muslim, Tahara: 27; Ibn Majah, Sayd: 1)
340-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When he dips one of you in his bowl and licks it, let him wash it seven times with soil the first time.) (Bukhari, Wudu': 35; Muslim , Tahara: 27)
341-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When he dips one of you in his bowl and licks it, let him wash it seven times with soil the first time.) (Bukhari, Wudu': 35; Muslim , Tahara: 27)
342-) Kab b. Malik (radiyallahu anh)'s daughter, Kabsha, narrates: Abu Qatada came to me and said something in the following sense: I prepared wudu water for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), a cat came and drank from it. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) helped the cat to drink by tilting the bowl. Kebsha says: When Abu Qatada saw me looking at him with amazement: "Are you astonished, my sister's daughter?" I said: Thereupon, Abu Qatada said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: It is not a dirty animal, they are domestic animals that roam around you.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 69; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 32)
343-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: I was eating meat on one of the days when I had my period. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) ate from the same meat as I had bitten him. Again, he drank by bringing his mouth to the same place of the cup I drank while I was menstruating. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 125; Muslim, Hayz: 3)
344-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: In the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), men and women used to make wudu using the same water from the same bowl. (Bukhari, Voodoo: 46; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 36)
345-) Referee b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was forbidden to make wudu from the woman's leftover wudu water. (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 48; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 36)
346-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: And the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to make ghusl from the same captain.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 36; Dârimi, Tahara: 68)
347-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Jabr (radiyallahu anh), he said: Enes b. I heard from Malik that he was saying: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) he would make ablution with one cup of water and make ghusl with five bowls of water.) (Bukhari, Ghusul: 3; Muslim, Hayz: 10)
348-) It was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) that she would perform ablution with one mud water and wash with one sa' of water.) (Bukhari, Vudu'': 51; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 42)
349-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to make ablution with one mud water and ghusl with a sa'.) (Bukhari, Wudu'': 51; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 42)
350-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: We set out for pilgrimage with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). When we came to the place called Serif, I had menstruation and I was crying. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), who came to me, said: It happened to you or did you have a period? When I answered (Yes), he said: Menstruation is a destiny written by Allah for the daughters of Adam. Fulfill all the requirements of pilgrimage except circumambulating the Kaaba.) (Bukhari, Hayz: 9; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 10)
351-) According to the narration from Urwa (radiy-Allâhu anh), Fatima bint Qays, who was from the Asad branch of the Quraysh tribe, came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “There is blood, but it is not my day.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: What you see is blood coming from your vein. When you see normal menstrual blood, stop praying, when the blood stops, make a ghusl, clean the stains of blood on you and start praying. (Bukhari, Hayz: 9; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 115)
352-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Stop praying when you start to see, and take a bath when it is finished.) (Bukhari, Hayz: 9; Ibn Mace, Tahara: 115)
353-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Umm Habiba bint Jahsh asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) for a fatwa and said: The Messenger of Allah! Blood is coming from me except on my menstrual days. What should I do? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: It is blood coming from the vein, make ghusl and perform prayers.) After that, Umm Habiba would take a bath for each prayer. (Bukhari, Hayz: 26; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 96)
354-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Umm Habiba asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) a question about menstrual blood. Aisha says: The basin in which Umm Habiba was bathing was filled with blood. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him: Wait for as long as it takes, then make a ghusl. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 116; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 108)
356-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The woman asked the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “I am constantly bleeding and I cannot get clean, should I stop praying?” The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to him: Do not stop prayers, but leave the prayer as long as the days and nights when you are menstruating, then make a ghusl, tie the bloody areas tightly and perform your prayers. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 116; Muslim, Hayz: 14)
357-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha): In the time of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), a woman had a large amount of blood, so Umm Salama asked the Prophet (pbuh) for a fatwa. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) replied, “Let him wait for days and nights as long as the menstrual period he had seen in the days before the disease came to him. Let him perform his prayers.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 116; Muslim, Hayz: 14)
358-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Abdurrahman b. Awf's wife, Umm Habibe bint Jahsh, was constantly bleeding and could not be cleaned at all. This situation was reported to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and he said: It is not menstruation. It is due to uterine disease. Let him wait as long as the days when he was menstruating before, and during this time he should stop praying, and for each prayer for the next days, he should take a bath.) (Bukhari, Hayz: 27; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 96)
359-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), Jahsh's daughter bled for seven years. He asked Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the situation, and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is not menstrual blood, it is blood coming from a vein. He ordered him to leave the prayer during the days of menstruation, then to make a ghusl and to make a ghusl for each prayer.) (Bukhari, Hayz: 27; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 96)
360-) According to the narration from Urwa (radiy-Allâhu anh), Fatima bint Abi Hubaysh reported: She complained that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was constantly bleeding from her. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to him: It is blood coming from a vein. Do not wait until the period of menstruation, do not pray, when the period of cleaning comes, perform ghusl and then perform the prayers between the periods of cleaning and menstruation.) (Bukhari, Hayz: 27; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 96)
361-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) reported that she said: Fatima bint Abi Hubaysh came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: I am a woman who bleeds and cannot be cleaned, can I leave my prayers in that case? ) The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is blood that comes from a vein, it is not menstrual blood. Stop your prayer when the menstrual period starts, and perform your prayers when the bleeding ends.) (Bukhari, Hayz: 27; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 96)
362-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), a woman who bled constantly during the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: It is a constant flow of blood from the vein, so he ordered him to delay the noon prayer and perform a ghusl with the afternoon prayer, to delay the evening prayer and perform it with one ghusl at night, and to perform a single ghusl for the morning prayer.) Bukhari, Hayz: 27; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 96)
363-) According to the narration from Zaynab bint Jahsh (radiy-Allâhu anh), I said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): I have the blood of apology, what should I do? Then you make ghusl again, delay the evening prayer and pray it together with the night prayer. You perform the morning prayer with a single ghusl.) (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 96)
364-) The blood of apology was coming from Fatima bint Abi Hubeysh (radiyallahu anha). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to him: As it is known, his blood is blackish, so stop praying during that time. The blood that comes out of those days is the blood of forgiveness, and you can perform ablution and pray on those days.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 115; Bukhari, Hayz: 21)
365-) According to the narration from Fatima bint Abi Hubaysh (radiyallahu anha), she was apologizing. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to him: As it is known, his blood is blackish. Leave the prayer on the days when that blood comes. If there is any other type of blood, perform ablution and perform your prayers.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 115; Bukhari, Hayz: 21)
366-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Fatima bint Abi Hubaysh was bleeding from an apology, she asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about this, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) replied as follows: blood coming from a vein is not menstrual blood. Stop the prayer on the days of menstruation, take a bath when the menstruation ends, wash the blood and perform your prayers because that blood is not menstruation blood, it is blood coming from the vein.) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked: In response, they said: There is no doubt.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 115; Bukhari, Hayz: 21)
367-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: Fatima bint Abi Hubaysh came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “The Messenger of Allah! He said, "There is blood constantly and I can never be cleaned." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Blood is blood that comes from a vein, it is not menstrual blood. When the days of menstruation come, leave your prayers, when it is over, wash the blood and perform ghusl and prayers). (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 115; Bukhari, Hayz: 21)
368-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Fatima bint Abi Hubaysh came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: "I'm constantly bleeding, can I stop praying?" Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Blood is blood that comes from a vein, it is not menstrual blood. When your menstruation starts, stop praying, and when your menstruation ends, make a ghusl, clean the blood and pray.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 115; Bukhari, Hayz: 21)
369-) Again, as reported from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), Fatima bint Abi Hubaysh said: The Messenger of Allah! I can't be cleaned at all, so can I leave my prayers?) The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is blood coming from a vein. Don't stop your prayers.) There was the following addition in the hadith I read to my teacher Khalid, the narrator of the hadith: It is not menstruation blood. When your menstruation starts, stop praying and when it ends, wash and clean the blood and perform your prayer.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 115; Bukhari, Hayz: 21)
370-) According to the narration from Muhammad (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Umm Atiyya said: We did not know such a thing as yellow and turbid discharge except menstrual blood.) (Bukhari, Hayz: 21; Dârimi, Tahara: 94)
371-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Jews did not eat and drink with menstruating women, and they would not be together even at home. They asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) about this situation, and then Allah revealed the 222nd verse of the chapter of al-Baqara. (They ask you about women's menstrual cycles. Say: It is a state of distress, pollution, and discomfort. Therefore, do not take advantage of women's femininity during menstruation, stay away from them, and do not have sexual intercourse with them until they are cleansed. When they are cleansed, approach them as Allah has commanded. Indeed, Allah loves those who turn to Him with regret and those who are pure.) Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said; He ordered Muslims to eat and drink with their menstruating wives, to stay at home together, and to do anything but sexual intercourse. Thereupon, the Jews said: His Messenger, we did not act against us, he left nothing. b. Hudayr and Abbad b. Bishr got up and reported this to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said: Will we have sexual intercourse with our wives in those days? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) changed abruptly upon this statement, we thought he was angry. Usayd b. Hudayr and Abbad b. Bishr got up and left. Meanwhile, milk was brought to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) as a gift. He sent a man after them and called them and made them drink milk. Thus, it was understood that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was not angry with them. (Bukhari, Hayz: 1; Muslim, Hayz: 3)
372-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to a person who had sexual intercourse with his wife during menstruation, or half a dinar in charity. (Tirmidhi, Tahara: 103; Abu Davud, Tahara: 106)
373-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: I was sleeping with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: (Have you had menses?). Me too: I said. He called me and we slept together in a bed. (Bukhari, Hayz: 22; Muslim, Hayz: 2)
374-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she says: I and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) used to sleep together in a bed during my menstruation days. If something happened to him from me, he would only wash the contaminated area and pray. Then he would go back to bed and if he got something from me again, he would just wash the contaminated area and pray the morning prayer. (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 125)
375-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to order one of our wives to wear her menstruation dress when she saw her menstruation, and slept in a bed with her. (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 99)
376-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: When one of us was menstruating, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would order her to wear her menstruation dress and then go to bed with her. (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 99)
377-) Cümey' b. According to the narration from Umayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: We went to Aisha with my mother and aunt. My mother and aunt; They asked Aisha: What would the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) do when one of you had menstruation, and she said: When someone had menstruation, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us to wear special menstruation clothes and took us in his arms and pressed us to his chest.) (Muslim. , Hayz: 3; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 99)
378-) According to the narration from Maymune (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to lie on a bed with his menstruating wives, wearing a dress that covered their thighs and half of their knees. (Bukhari, Hayz: 6; Muslim, Hayz: 3)
379-) Shurayh (radiyallahu anh) narrates from her father: I asked Aisha: Can a woman see, eat with her husband? I ate. He would take a piece of meat and give it to me, so I would bite it and then leave it on the table. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would take that piece of meat and eat it from the part I bit it. He wanted something to drink, he would give it to me, before he drank it, I would drink it and leave the container. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) would take that cup and drink it from the place I drank from and put it in my mouth.) (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 125)
380-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: Even when I was menstruating, she drank from the cup I drank from the cup I put in my mouth and drank my leftovers, even though I was menstruating!) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 125; Muslim, Hayz: 3)
381-) Mıkdam b. Shurayh (radiyallahu anh) narrates from her father and says: I heard from Aisha she said: When I was menstruating, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) brought me a cup of drink and I drank from it. ) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 125; Muslim, Hayz: 3)
382-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: In the days when I was there, I used to give the container from which I drank water to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and he would drink from what I drank. Again, when I left the piece of meat I ate when I was menstruating on the table, he would take that meat and eat it from where I bit it.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 115; Muslim, Hayz: 3)
383-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: When one of our wives was menstruating, she would put her head on her lap and recite the Qur'an.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 104; Abu Dawud, Tahara : 103)
384-) According to the narration from Muaze al-Adewi (radiy-Allâhu anha), a woman asked Aisha: Will the woman who sees pray? Aisha said: Are you one of the Haruris? At the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam); We would not pray when we saw menstruation, and we would not be ordered to make up for it.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 104; Dârimi, Tahara: 102)
385-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We were in the Masjid with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Aisha also said: I do not do it, that is, I am menstruating). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "It's not in your hand, bring it." (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 104; Muslim, Hayz: 3)
386-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to me: Bring the display and the cover. Me too: I said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is not in your hands. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 104; Muslim, Hayz: 3)
388-) According to the narration from Maymune (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: When we were menstruating, he would put his head on one of us and recite the Qur'an. Again, one of us used to lay a prayer mat in the mosque even though he was menstruating.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 104; Muslim, Hayz: 3)
389-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would extend his head to me from the mosque where he entered Itikaf, and I would comb his head even though I was menstruating.) (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Bukhari, Hayz: 3 )
390-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would stretch out his head to me and I would wash his head while he was in Itikaf even though I was menstruating.) (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Bukhari, Hayz : 3)
391-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): While I'm in Itikaf in the mosque, I used to wash her head even though I was menstruating.) (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Bukhari, Hayz: 3)
392-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: I used to comb the hair of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) even when I was alive.) (Muslim, Hayz: 3; Bukhari, Hayz: 3)
393-) According to the narration from Hafsa (radiyallahu anha), she said: Umm Atiyya used to say, "May my mother be sacrificed for you" whenever she remembered the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). I said: Do you hear that sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said? He said: (May my father and mother be sacrificed to you) he said; He narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Let young girls of their age, menstruating women and old women attend good meetings and invite Muslims. Menstruating women should not enter the mosques and stay away.) (Bukhari, Hayz: 24; Ibn Mâce, Ikametü's Salat: 165)
394-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) narrates: To the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); I said that Safiye bint Huyey had menstruation. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Did he not circumambulate the Kaaba with you, which would delay us? I said: circumambulated). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: set out. (Bukhari, Hayz: 28; Tirmidhi, Hajj: 98)
395-) Esma bint Umeys (radiyallahu anha) narrates: I had menses in a place called Zulhulayfe. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to Abu Bakr: Let him make a ghusl and bring talbiyah. (Abu Dawud, Menasik: 10; Muslim, Hajj: 16)
396-) According to the narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: We performed the funeral prayer of Umm Ka'b, who died while she was menstruating, together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was in the middle of the congregation or stood in the middle of the funeral. (Bukhari, Hayz: 30)
397-) From Esma bint Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anha): Munzir b. While Fatima was on my lap, a woman asked for a fatwa about the menstrual blood that smeared on her clothes: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: fret, clean and pray). (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 132; Bukhari, Hayz: 10)
398-) Adi b. According to a narration from Dinar (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umm Qays bint Mihsan told the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); I heard him ask about the menstrual blood smeared on his clothes, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Wash with soap and water. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 132; Bukhari, Hayz: 10)
399-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He should not make a ghusl in stagnant water) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 36; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 109)
400-) Again, according to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do not urinate in stagnant water and then make ghusl and ablution there.) (Bukhari, Voodoo': 73; Tirmidhi, Tahara) : 51)
401-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade urinating in water and then making a ghusl there. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 109; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 36)
402-) Again, according to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade urinating in stagnant water and then making a ghusl from there.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 109; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 36)
403-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Let him not urinate in a still and non-flowing water and make a ghusl from there.” (Bukhari, Wudu'73; Tirmidhi, Tahara) : 51)
404-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he believes in Allah and the Last Day, he should not enter the hammam naked, use a loincloth.) (Bukhari, Ghusul: 20; Muslim , Hayz: 16)
405-) Abdullah b. Ebî Awfa (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrates: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray as follows: Cleanse me from my sins and faults. my god! Cleanse me from my sins as a white dress is cleansed of dirt. my god! Cleanse me from my sins with snow, hail and cold water.) (Bukhari, Deavat: 40; Ibn Mâce, Dua: 20)
406-) According to the narration from Ibn Abi Awfa (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray: Clean me with snow, hail and cold water. my god! Cleanse me from sins like a white dress is cleaned from dirt.) (Ibn Maje, Dua: 3; Bukhari, Deavat: 39)
407-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Abi Qays (radiyallahu anh), I asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha): When she was junub, did she make a ghusl before going to bed or would she lie down without making a ghusl? Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): she used to do both, that is, she would sometimes make ghusl and sometimes make wudu and sleep.) (Muslim, Hayz: 6; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 90)
408-) Gudayf b. According to a narration from al-Haris (radiyallahu anh), he said: I came to Aisha (radiyallahu anha) and said: "Would she make ghusl before or at the end of the night?" Aisha said: She would do both, sometimes before the night and sometimes at the end of the night. I said: Praise be to Allah, who has given us ease in our affairs.) (Muslim, Hayz: 6; Abu Davud, Tahara: 90)
409-) According to a narration from Ya'la (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a man performing a ghusl in public, and he climbed the pulpit. Praising Allah and praising him, he said: He is meek, he has modesty, he covers faults and faults. He likes to be shy and covered, so when one of you makes a ghusl, he should do it in a closed place.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Hamam: 2; Musnad: 17287)
410-) Safwan b. Ya'la (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrates from his father: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It covers faults and faults. When one of you makes a ghusl, he should cover himself with something.) (Abu Dawud, Hamam: 2; Musnad: 17287)
411-) According to the narration from Maymune (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: I prepared water for him to make ghusl and drew a curtain. -Maymune told the ghusl of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)- Then I brought him a cardigan to be wiped, he refused.) (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 113; Bukhari, Ghusl: 20)
412-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The Prophet was making a ghusl while naked. A golden grasshopper fell on him from above, trying to catch him with his dress. Then his Lord said: Ayyub! Did I not make you rich?) Ayyub said: O my Lord! But I always need your blessings and blessings. (Bukhari, Ghusl: 20; Musnad: 7008)
413-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to make ghusl in a bowl called Farak. He and I used to make ghusl from a captain.) (Bukhari, Ghusl: 2; Muslim, Hayz: 10)
414-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: We used to make ghusl with the same vessel and we would take handfuls of water from that vessel together.) (Bukhari, Ghusul: 2; Muslim, Hayz: 10)
415-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: When we were there, we used to bathe with a captain together with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). (Bukhari, Ghusul: 2; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 46)
416-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said the following: We used to joke with her (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) that you would get the water from the water bowl first, and I would take it from the same vessel.) (Muslim, Hayz: 10; Dârimi, Tahara) : 68)
417-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to make ghusl with the same captain, and we used to joke that I will take it first, you will take it first. In fact, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to say: let it go, and I would say: let it go. (Dârimi, Tahara: 68; Muslim, Hayz: 10)
418-) Umm Hani (radiy-Allâhu anha) narrates: On the day of his conquest, I came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and he was making a ghusl. I put a curtain in front of it, next to it was a bowl with dough dishes. He performed the mid-morning prayer, I do not know how many rak'ahs he performed after making ghusl.) (Bukhari, Ghusl: 21; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 113)
419-) Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) narrates: We used to cover up with this captain for about an hour's length together with sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam): I would start a ghusl together and pour water on my head three times with my hands. I wouldn't untangle my hair, either.) (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 108; Muslim, Hayz: 12)
420-) Muhammed b. Münteshir quotes from his father and says: I heard from Ibn Omar, he was saying: I do not go into ihram by applying tar on my head; It is better than going into ihram smelling a nice smell on me.) As soon as I heard these words, I immediately went to Aisha (radiyallahu anha) and narrated these words of Ibn Omar to her. Thereupon, he said: I applied a fragrance to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and he walked around his wives one by one with this scent. Then he went into ihram. (Bukhari, Ghusl: 13; Muslim, Hajj: 7)
421-) According to a narration from Maymune (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed wudu like prayer, but did not wash his feet. He washed his private parts and the places where semen could be contaminated, then poured water on him from head to toe. Then he stepped aside and washed his feet.) Meymune says: This is the way people wash.) (Muslim, Hayz: 9; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 98)
422-) Meymune bint al-Haris, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and daughter of Haris, tells: He would wash his hands again, then perform wudu like a prayer, then pour water on his head, wash his whole body, and then step aside and wash his feet.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 98; Bukhari, Ghusul: 18)
423-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: When she was going to make a ghusl due to janaba, she would wash her hands, then perform wudu like a prayer ablution and start ghusl, then she would rub her hair until her hair was wet and wash her head three times. He would wash the other parts of his body after pouring it. (Bukhari, Ghusl: 1; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 76)
424-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: Sallallaahu 'alaihi wa sallam) liked to start from the right as much as possible while wearing shoes and combing his hair in cleaning works such as wudu and ghusl.) (Bukhari, Salat: 47; Ibn Mâce) , Tahara: 42)
425-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) how to make a ghusl because of janaba. (All hadiths on this subject agree on this meaning.) A person who is going to make ghusl first pours water on his right hand two or three times, then puts his right hand in a water bowl and pours water on his left hand and washes his private parts until they are clean. Then, if he wishes, he rubs his left hand on the ground, then pours water on his left hand until it is thoroughly clean, then washes both his hands three times. He puts water in his mouth and nose. He washes his face and arms three times. When it happened to him, he would pour water without anointing. It is narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) made a ghusl in this way.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 98; Muslim, Hayz: 29)
426-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: While making a ghusl due to janaba, she washes her hands, then performs wudu like prayer, then rubs her head with her fingers until the roots of her hair are wet, and then washes her head by pouring water three times. He would wash his entire body.) (Bukhari, Ghusl: 1; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 76)
427-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: When she takes a ghusl due to janaba, she asks for a container full of water to be milked, takes the water with her palm and pours it on her right side, then pours it on her left side, then with her palm. He would take the water and pour it on his head.) (Bukhari, Ghusl: 4; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 76)
428-) Jubayr b. According to what is reported from Mut'im (radiyallahu anh), when ghusl was mentioned in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), he said: I pour water on my head three times while making ghusl. (Bukhari, Ghusl: 4; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 98)
429-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While making a ghusl, he would pour water on his head three times.) (Bukhari, Ghusl: 4; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 98)
430-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), a woman said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): Messenger of Allah! He asked, “How will I make a ghusl when I am cleansed from the menstrual cycle?” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Take a piece of cloth and clean with it. The woman said: How should I clean with a piece of cloth? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Cleanse yourself. When the woman said again: how will I be cleaned; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, turning his face away from the woman. This time, I understood what the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) meant, grabbed that woman and pulled her aside and asked her what the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) meant. (Bukhari, Hayz: 15; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 124)
431-) According to a narration from Maymune (radiy-Allâhu anh), the wife of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he said: While performing a ghusl because of janaba, he would first wash his private parts and rub his hands on the ground and the earth. Then he would make wudu like a prayer ablution and then pour the water abundantly on his head and body.) (Bukhari, Ghusl: 16; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 98)
432-) Cafer b. Muhammad (radiyallahu anh) said, quoting from his father: Jabir b. We went to Abdullah and asked questions about the farewell pilgrimage. He told us the following: We set out for Hajj with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) five days before the end of the month of Dhu al-Qa'ida. When we arrived at the place called Zulhuleyfe, Umeysin's daughter Esma, Muhammed b. Abi Bakri gave birth. Thereupon, Esma; He sent a message to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asking what he should do. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) replied, “Put a cloth on the place where the blood will come from and enter the ihram.” (Abu Dawud, Menâsik: 10; Muslim, Hajj: 16)
433-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would not make wudu for prayer unless his wudu was broken after ghusl. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 99; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 79)
434-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) said: I used to apply perfume to sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam. : 10)
435-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I was given five qualities that were not given to any prophet before; 1- To terrify even the enemy who is a month away, 2- The earth has been made clean for me and 3- Masjid has been made for me. 4- The right of intercession, which was not given to any prophet, was given to me. 5- Although every prophet was sent to his own people, I am a prophet sent to all people.) (Muslim, Mesacid: 1; Dârimi, Tahara: 111)
436-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: People performed their prayers by performing tayammum. They found water before that prayer time. One of them performed ablution with water and offered his prayer again. The other did not repeat his prayer. Both of them asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about the situation. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to a person who does not repeat the prayer: You followed the right thing and your prayer is complete. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 128; Dârimi, Tahara: 65)
439-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: While Ali, Mikdad and Ammar were talking among themselves, Ali said: "I have a lot of seniors, I am ashamed to ask the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) because his daughter is my wife." . If one of you ask for me and tell me. -I forgot which one asked- when someone asked; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to him: If one of you has a mezzanine, he should wash his organ and perform ablution like a prayer.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 82; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 70)
440-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I am a very old person, I ordered someone to ask the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about this situation. He also said: Therefore, it is sufficient to make wudu.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 82; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 70)
441-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Because Fatima was my wife, I was ashamed to ask the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the verdict of mezi. I ordered Mıkdad. He asked. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: It is enough to take it.) (Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 82; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 70)
442-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I sent Miqdad to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to inquire about the ruling of his past. .) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 82; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 70)
443-) Süleyman b. According to a narration from Yesar (radiyallahu anh), he said: Ali b. Abi Talib had sent Miqdad to ask the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) a question about what the elder man should do, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Wash your organ and perform ablution.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 82; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 70)
444-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I had sent Miqdad to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to ask him what should be done by a man with a majesty in his wife’s presence. Because my daughter Fatima is my lady, I was too embarrassed to ask. Miqdad asked about this, and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If such a situation occurs, let him wash his genitals and perform ablution like prayer.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 82; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 70)
445-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he wakes up from sleep, he should not put his hand in the water bowl without washing it two or three times. Because he does not know where his hand touched during sleep.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 82; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 70)
446-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I stood on his left side to pray with him one night, he pulled me to his right side. After praying, he went to bed and lay down. When the muezzin came and called him, he prayed without making ablution.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 80; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 57)
447-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever falls asleep should leave his prayer and go to bed.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 80; Muslim, Hayz: 33)
448-) According to a narration from Busra (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Anyone who touches his organ should make wudu.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 70; Muslim, Tahara: 15)
449-) According to a narration from Busra bint Safwan (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he touches the genital organ with his hand, he should perform ablution.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 70; Muslim, Tahara: 15)
450-) Marwan b. According to the narration from al-Hakim (radiyallahu anh), he said: taking it is because of touching the genital organ. ablution is required) said.) (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 70; Muwatta', Tahara: 15)
451-) Again, according to the narration from Busre bint Safwan (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever touches his organ should not pray without making wudu.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 70; Muvatta', Tahara: 15)
452-) Malik b. According to the narration from Sa'saa (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: I was between sleep and wakefulness with him. At that time, one of the three people approached me, a golden bowl full of wisdom and faith was brought, that person helped me from my chest to the bottom of my stomach, washed my heart with water and zamzam, and filled it with wisdom and faith. Then a big horse was brought from a mule and a small donkey. Together with Jibril (peace be upon him), we continued on our way. When he reached the world sky, it was said who he is. Jibril said: I am Jibril. Who is next to you? When it is said; Jibril said. Was he sent as a prophet? Jibril said. It was said, "Welcome, happiness, happy arrival." I came to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and greeted him. He said hello son and prophet. Then we came to the second sky. Who was it called? Jibril said: I am Jibril. Who is next to you? it was said. He said (it is Muhammad). Here, too, we were greeted in the same way. Here, too, I greeted Yahya and Isa (alaihis-salâm). They said hello brother and prophet. Then we reached the third heaven, it was said (Who is He). Jibril said: I am Jibril. It was said who is next to him. (Muhammad) said. Again, we were greeted in the same way, and here I went to Yusuf (alaihis-salâm) and greeted him. He said: Hello brother and prophet. Then we reached the fourth heaven, where we were greeted in the same way. I went to İdris (alaihis-salâm) there and greeted him. He said: brother and prophet). Then we reached the fifth heaven and were greeted in the same way. There, I came to Harun and greeted him. He said: brother and prophet). Then we reached the sixth heaven, where we were greeted in the same way. I came to Moses (peace be upon him) and greeted him. He said: Hello brother and prophet. She cried when he left her. When it was said why are you crying, he said: O Lord! The nation of this young man, whom you sent as a prophet after me, is superior to my nation and many of them will enter Paradise. Then we arrived at the seventh heaven and were greeted in the same way. There, I came to Ibrahim (alaihis-salâm) and greeted him. He said: Prophet son of the prophet). Then I was taken to a place called Beyti Mamur. When he asked Jibril what it was, he said: This is Bayti Mamur; Seventy thousand angels pray here every day, no one who leaves here can enter here again. Then Sidratul Munteha was brought closer to me. I also saw that its fruits are like Hecer jugs and its leaves are like elephant ears. Under the tree, four rivers flow, two of which are apparent and two are in the west. I asked Jibril about these. He also said: Those who are called are in Paradise; The Zahir ones are Bu'ta and the Nile. Then fifty prayers were made obligatory for me. When he returned to Moses (peace be upon him); (what did you do?) he said. I said: Fifty prayers have been made obligatory). Moses: I know people better than you; What I have suffered from the Children of Israel, your nation cannot withstand these fifty daily prayers. Return to your Lord, ask for this burden to be lightened a little) when he said; I turned to my Lord and asked him to lighten himself a little. It was reduced to forty hours. When he returned to Moses again, he said: Did you do it?). I said (reduced it to forty). When he spoke his first word to me again, I turned to my Lord again; reduced to thirty hours. I returned to Moses again, and when he said the same first word to me, I turned to my Lord again, and it was reduced to twenty times. Then it was reduced to ten, then to five. I came to Moses again, and when he said the same first word to me again, I said: I would be ashamed to return again. Thereupon, Allah said: I have lightened the burden that I have made obligatory, so I will reward your worship and goodness tenfold.) (Bukhari, Salat: 1; Muslim, Faith: 74)
453-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik and Ibn Hazm (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He made fifty prayers obligatory for my umma, so I came back. When I stopped by Moses (peace be upon him), he said: What has your Lord made obligatory for his people? I said: time prayer). He said to me: When he said, "Apply to your Lord, your ummah cannot stand these fifty daily prayers; I applied to my Lord and he cut it in half. When I came to Moses (peace be upon him) again, I informed him about the situation. This time, he said, "Your ummah cannot stand it." Again, I appealed to my Lord. He said: It is worth fifty, it is five times, and the decree cannot be changed in my presence. When he said to Moses, "Beg your Lord to reduce it," And I said: I'm ashamed now). (Muslim, Faith: 74; Ibn Majah, Iqamatu's Salat: 194)
454-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A large mount was brought from a small donkey from a mule, and he was taking his steps where his eyes could see. I got on with Jibril (alaihis-salâm) and we traveled a little. Jibril said: and pray.) I did the same. Jibril said: Do you know where is the place where you prayed? He said, "You prayed in Tayba (Madinah). You will migrate there.) Then again: and pray." I got down and prayed. Then Jibril said: Do you know that he was praying? You prayed in Tur-i Sina, where Allah spoke to Moses. Then he said again, (Get down and pray). I went down and prayed. Again he said: Do you know where you made the place? You made the Bayt in Lahm, the place where Jesus was born.) Then I entered the Bayt Makdis, and all the Prophets (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) gathered next to me. Jibril took me forward and I became their imam. Then I was taken to the nearest heaven, the world sky, where there was Adam (alaihis-salâm). Then I was taken to the second heaven, where there were his aunt's children, Isa and Yahya (alaihis-salâm). Then I ascended to the third heaven, and there I saw Yusuf (alaihis-salâm). Then I was taken to the fourth heaven, where there was Aaron. Then I was raised to the fifth heaven, and there was Idris (alaihis-salâm). Then I was raised to the sixth heaven, and there was Moses. Then I was raised to the seventh heaven, and there was Abraham. Then I was raised above the seven heavens and reached Sidret-ul-muntaha, when something like a cloud covered me there, I prostrated and it was said to me: I made fifty prayers obligatory for you and your ummah on the day I created the heavens and the earth. Pray that prayer for you and your ummah. I went to (peace be upon him), he didn't ask me anything, then when I got to Moses; He said, "How many prayers has Allah made obligatory for you and your ummah?" I said: Time has made prayer obligatory). Moses also said: And you cannot bear to perform these fifty times of the Ummah, return to your Lord and ask him to lighten it.) So I returned to my Lord and he sent down ten times. Then, when he came to Moses again, he commanded me to return and ask for this burden to be lightened. So I came back again and lowered ten more. Then it was reduced to five hours. Moses (peace be upon him) said again: Ask your Lord to be lightened, because Allah made it obligatory for the Children of Israel to pray two times a day, they could not even perform it. I returned to my Lord again, I asked him to lighten it, and he said: And on the day I created the earth, I made fifty prayers obligatory for you and your nation, these five times; fifty times is right. You and your Ummah should perform these five times.) As such, I understood that this matter was finalized by Allah. I returned to Moses. When he said: come back again, I did not return because I knew that the five times were certain and would not be alleviated.) (Muslim, Iman: 74; Ibn Mâce, Ikametü's Salat; 194)
455-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) ascended to Miraj, he reached Sidret-ul-Munteha, he was in the sixth heaven. Those who come out from below get there. Those downloaded from above also reach there. and it is taken from there. Ravi says: the covering is covered.) (Najm: 16) Anas says: butterflies.) Three things were given to (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) on this night of Isra. The five daily prayers, the last verses of the chapter of al-Baqara and the forgiveness of major sins of those who do not associate partners with Allah. (Muslim, Faith: 76; Tirmidhi, Tafsir al-Qur'an: 54)
456-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: Prayers were made obligatory in Mecca. Two angels came and took the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) to the zamzam well and slit his stomach. (Muslim, Faith: 74; Musnad: 12048)
457-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: First, it was made obligatory as two rak'ahs. The prayer performed during the journey remained as it was made obligatory. The prayer performed in the Caspian was completed in four.) (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 270)
458-) Abu Amr, that is, al-Awzâî (radiy-Allâhu anh), asked Zuhri: How long would the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) pray in Mecca before the Hijra? Zuhri: Urwa informed; According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: He made the prayer obligatory for the Messenger of Allah as two rak'ahs, and then the prayer performed in the house was completed in four. The prayer performed during the expedition remained as it was made obligatory.) (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 270)
459-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Prayer was made obligatory as two rak'ahs. The prayer performed on the journey remained the same. The prayers performed in the Caspian were increased to four. (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 270)
460-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Prayer was made obligatory in the language of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) as four rak'ahs at home, two rak'ahs on a journey, and one rak'ah in war. (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 270)
461-) Umayya b. Abdullah b. Khalid b. Usayd (radiyallahu anh) narrates: Abdullah b. When he said to Omar: (There is no sin in shortening the prayer if you are afraid.) (Nisa: 101) How can you shorten the prayer when he said; me: my brother's son! When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) came to us as a prophet, we were perverted, he taught us everything; This was among what we were taught when we prayed two rak'ahs during the expedition.) (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 270)
462-) Talha b. According to the narration from Ubaydullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A disheveled man from the tribe of Nejd came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). We could hear his voice until we got closer, but we couldn't understand what he was saying. He was asking questions about Islam. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to him: You must pray five times a day and a night.) The man said: Do I need to pray other than this? said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: You can only perform voluntary prayers. You also fast for a month in Ramadan.) When the man said: Do I need to fast another? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: but you can fast in vain. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said that zakat should be given, the man said: Do I need to give something else? When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: You can only give charity as voluntary, the man said: I can neither do more nor less than that) and left. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If it is true, he survived. (Bukhari, Faith: 34; Ibn Majah, Ikametu's Salat: 194)
463-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “The Messenger of Allah! What has Allah made obligatory on His servants? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He made five daily prayers obligatory on His servants. Man: O Messenger of Allah! Did he ordain anything else before and after this? she asked. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: He made five daily prayers obligatory for his servants; The man swore that he would not increase or decrease anything from them. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he is correct in his word, he will definitely enter Paradise. (Ibn Majah, Ikametu's Salat: 194; Bukhari, Faith: 34)
464-) Awf b. According to the narration from Malik al-Ashjai (radiyallahu anh), he said: While sitting next to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) repeated three times: "Do you not pledge allegiance to the Messenger of Allah?" We immediately extended our hands and pledged allegiance. O Messenger of Allah! We pledged allegiance to you. But on what did we pledge allegiance? when you say; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "To be a servant and slave to Allah, to perform the five daily prayers properly, not to associate anything with Him, and to lower your voice a little: Not to ask anything from anyone." (Muslim, Zakat: 35; Abu Dawud, Zakat: 23)
465-) According to the narration from Ibn Muhayriz (radiy-Allâhu anh), when a man known as Muhdeci from Beni Kinana heard a person named Abu Muhammad in Damascus say (The witr prayer is obligatory); Muhdeci says: Immediately Ubade b. I came to Samit and explained the situation to him. He was going to the mosque. Thereupon, Ubada said: Abu Muhammad is lying. I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) saying: He made five daily prayers obligatory on his servants. Whoever does them without taking them lightly and without abandoning them; Allah has promised to put that person in Paradise. Whoever does not perform the five daily prayers, Allah has no promise to those people, He can punish them if He wishes. If he wishes, he can forgive and put him in Heaven.) (Ibn Mace, Ikametü's Salat: 194; Dârimi, Salat: 208)
466-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If one of you had a river in front of his door where he bathed five times a day, would you think that there would be dirt on that person?) ) they said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The five daily prayers are like this, Allah removes sins with these prayers.) (Muslim, Masajid: 5.1; Tirmidhi, Emsal: 5)
467-) Abdullah b. Burayda (radiyallahu anh) narrated from his father and said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The difference between us is the prayer we promised to perform. Whoever abandons prayer becomes a disbeliever.) (Ibn Maje, Ikametu's Salat: 77; Tirmidhi, Faith: 9)
468-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The deed that saves us from being a disbeliever is prayer. Salat: 77)
469-) Hureys b. According to the narration from Kabisa (radiyallahu anh), he said: When I arrived in Madinah, I prayed: Grant me a righteous friend, and I sat next to Abu Hurayra and said to him: I prayed to Allah to grant me a righteous friend. Tell me about the hadiths you heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Maybe Allah will make me benefit from these hadiths. Thereupon, Abu Huraira said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: On that day, the servant will be held accountable for his prayer, and if his prayer is complete, he will be saved and find comfort. If his prayer is broken and incomplete, he will regret it and fall into trouble. (Hemmam says: I don't know if this is the word of Qatada or a hadith) If the obligatory prayers of the person who is accounted for are missing, Allah: Let's see if my servant has any supererogatory prayers. commands. Thereupon, the missing fard prayers are completed with supererogatory prayers. His other deeds are calculated and completed in the same way.) (Ibn Majah, Ikametü's Salat: 202; Musnad: 9130)
470-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The first thing to be asked of a servant today is prayer. If the prayer is complete, it is written as complete. If there is a lack of prayer, Allah says (Look at the supererogatory prayers). The deficiencies in fard prayers are made up for with nafilah prayers. Then his other deeds are calculated in the same way. (Ibn Majah, Iqamatu's Salat: 202; Musnad: 9130)
471-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The first thing to be taken into account is the prayer. If his prayer is complete, it is complete, if not, Allah says: look at the nafilah prayers). If there are nafilah prayers, what is missing from the obligatory prayers is completed with it.) (Ibn Mace, Ikametu's Salat: 202; Musnad: 9130)
472-) According to the narration from Abu Ayyub (radiyallahu anh), a man said: Allah's Messenger! When he said, "Tell me about an action that will take me to Paradise"; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): you worship and do not associate anything with Him. He performs the prayer, gives the zakat, you do not cut off the relations with your relatives, you visit them.) (Ibn Majah, Iqamatu's Salat: 193; Muslim: Faith: 4)
473-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I prayed the noon prayer as four rak'ahs in Medina and the afternoon prayer as two rak'ahs in Zulhulayfa. (Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 1; Abu Dawud, Hajj: 21)
474-) According to the narration from Abu Juhayfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) left Medina at noon. . He performed the afternoon prayer in the same way as two rak'ahs, and put his walking stick in front of it as a sutrah.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Hajj: 45; Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 51)
475-) Umara b. Ruveyba es-Sakafi (radiy-Allâhu anh), narrating from his father, says: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “A person who does not neglect the morning prayer performed before sunrise and the afternoon prayer that must be performed before sunset will never enter Hell.” (Muvatta' , Mawaqit: 12; Muslim, Masjid: 37)
476-) According to a narration from Abu Yunus, the slave of Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the wife of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), he said: He ordered me to write a mushaf for him, (Pay attention to the prayers! Especially to the middle prayer.) (Baqara 238). ) when you come to the verse, let me know) he said. I said: When I came to that verse, I informed him. He made me dictate: Continue your prayers, especially the mid-afternoon prayer, and stand in the presence of Allah with sincere devotion. He continued as follows: That's what I heard from the Messenger of Allah. Abu Dawud, Salat: 5)
477-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said for the army of polytheists, who prevented Muslims from praying in the Battle of the Trench: They kept us busy until sunset and we could not perform the mid-afternoon prayer. (Muslim, Masajid: 36; Dârimi, Salat: 28)
478-) According to the narration from Abu'l Melih (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were with Burayda on a cloudy day. Make haste to perform the prayer, do not delay it, because the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The deed of a person who abandons his prayer will be in vain.) (Bukhari, Mawaqit: 16; Muslim, Masajid: 35)
479-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: We estimated the amount of recitation in the noon and afternoon prayers of sallallahu alaihi wa sallam; We guessed that he recited it during the noon prayer, in the first two rak'ats, as much as the thirty-verse Sura Sajda. In the last two rak'ahs, he recited half as much as he read. We guessed that he read it in the first two rak'ahs of the afternoon prayer, and we guessed that he recited half as much in the last two rak'ahs as he recited in the last two rak'ahs of the noon prayer.) (Dârimi, Salat: 63; İbn Mâce, Ikametu's Salat: 7)
480-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) would perform the noon prayer and recite thirty verses in each rak'ah. Then he would perform the afternoon prayer and read up to fifteen verses in each rak'ah.) (Ibn Mace, Ikametü's Salat: 7; Dârimi, Salat: 63)
481-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the noon prayer four rak'ahs in Madinah and the afternoon prayer two rak'ahs in Zulhulayfa. (Abu Dawud, Menasik: 21; Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 1)
482-) Nevfel b. According to a narration from Muawiyah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the following from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He is like a person who lost his property and family.) says: Abdullah b. According to what is reported from Umar, he heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: If he misses the afternoon prayer, it is as if he had lost his family and property.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 56; Bukhari, Mavakît: 16)
483-) Nevfel b. According to a narration from Muawiyah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: There is a prayer that the state of a person who performs it is like a person who has lost his family and wealth.) Ibn Umar says: I heard him say: Salat is the afternoon prayer.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Bukhari, Mawakit: 16)
484-) Nevfel b. According to the narration from Muawiyah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: There is a prayer that passes it like a person who has lost his family and property. Ibn Omar says: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: prayer is the afternoon prayer.) (Muslim, Masajid: 35; Bukhari, Mawaqit: 16)
485-) Salama b. According to the narration from Küheyl (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: b. I saw Jubayr gathering prayers in Muzdalifah. He performed the Maghrib prayer as three rak'ahs. Then he brought the iqama and performed the night prayer as two rak'ahs. Then he said that Ibn Umar did the same there. He also reported that he said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) did the same there.) (Tirmidhi, Menasik: 54; Bukhari, Hajj: 97)
486-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was a little late for the night prayer, Omar; (Women and children fell asleep), he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) left his room and said: There is no one else to perform the prayer but you. (Muslim, Masajid: 39; Bukhari, Mavakit: 23)
487-) According to the narration from Hakam (radiyallahu anh), he said: Said b. In Muzdalifah, Jubayr led the evening prayer as three rak'ahs and saluted, then performed the night prayer as two rak'ahs. Then Abdullah b. He said that Umar did the same and he said that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did the same. (Tirmidhi, Hajj: 56; Bukhari, Hajj: 96)
488-) Salama b. According to the narration from Küheyl (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Said b. I heard from Jubayr that he said: Abdullah b. I saw Umar in Muzdalifah, he brought the iqama and performed the evening prayer as three rak'ahs. Then he performed the night prayer as two rak'ahs and said: I saw sallallahu alaihi wa sallam praying like this here.) (Tirmidhi, Hajj: 56; Bukhari, Hajj: 96)
489-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: And the angels of the daytime come to you following their watch. They unite in morning and afternoon prayers. When the angels who spend the night next to you come before Allah, Allah asks them: -even though he knows their situation very well- he asks: What have you left my servants in? they also say: They were praying when we arrived and when we left them.) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 161; Ibn Mâce, Mesacid: 16)
490-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The prayer performed together is twenty-five times better than the prayer performed by oneself. During the morning prayer, the angels of night and day unite to change their watch. If you wish, read the 78th verse of Isra Surah: Perform the morning prayer, because the morning prayer (like the afternoon prayer) is a prayer witnessed by the angels of night and day.) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 161; Ibn Majah, Masajid: 16)
491-) Umara b. Ruveyba (radiyallahu anh), quoting from his father, says: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: No one who performs the morning prayer, which is the prayer before sunrise, and the afternoon prayer before sunset, will not enter Hell.) (Bukhari, Mavakit: 15; Muslim : Masjid: 37)
492-) According to the narration from Bara (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We prayed together with him towards Bayt al-Maqdis (Jerusalem) for sixteen or seventeen months (sixteen or seventeen?) Sufyan had doubts about the issue) and then the qibla direction was turned towards the Kaaba.) (Muslim, Masjid: 2; Muwatta', Qibla: 4)
493-) Bera b. According to the narration from Azib (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) came to Madina and prayed towards Bayt al-Maqdis for sixteen months. Then he was returned to the Kaaba. A man praying against the Kaaba with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) stopped by a group of Ansar and said: He said, "I witnessed the return." Thereupon, that congregation turned towards the Kaaba. (Muslim, Masajid: 2; Muwatta', Qibla: 4)
494-) Sâlim (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated from his father that he said: “Sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to perform nafilah and witr prayers on his binit (no matter which direction it went). But he would not perform the obligatory prayers on his binit.) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 260; Ibn Mâce, Ikametü's Salat: 127)
495-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was praying on a treadmill on his way from Mecca to Medina. There it is: and the West belongs to Allah. Wherever you turn, you will return to Allah there…) (Baqara: 115) verse was revealed. (Ibn Majah, Ikametu's Salat: 127; Bukhari, Vitr: 5)
496-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to perform nafilah prayers on his mount, no matter which way his mount turned. Malik, Abdullah b. Quoting Dinar, he says: Ibn Omar used to perform nafilah prayers in the same way.) (Ibn Mace, Ikametü's Salat: 127; Bukhari, Vitr: 5)
497-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: While people were praying in the morning prayer in the Quba mosque, someone came and said: A verse was revealed to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) at night, and after that, he turned to the Kaaba and prayed. commanded to do it) he said. (that is, you pray towards the Kaaba too) At that time, they were praying towards Damascus, and upon this news, they turned to the Kaaba. (Muslim, Masajid: 2; Muwatta', Qibla: 4)
498-) According to the narration from Ibn Shihab (radiyallahu anh), Umar b. Abdulaziz; delayed the afternoon prayer a little. Thereupon, when Urwa said: Jibril (peace be upon him) became imam for the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and led the prayer, Umar said: Urwa, know what you are saying.) Thereupon, Urwa said: Bashir b. I heard Abi Mas'ud say: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) that he was saying: He came down and became an imam for me. I counted the five times with his fingers, then I prayed with him, then I prayed with him, then I prayed with him, then I prayed with him, then I prayed with him.) (Muslim, Masacid: 31; Bukhari, Bad-ul Halk: 6)
499-) Seyyar b. According to a narration from Selame (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard it from my father; He said to Abu Barza, I heard him ask about the times when the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) prayed. I said, "Did you hear what Abu Barza heard?" Seyyar: Now I heard what you said as I heard it. My father asked Abu Barza about the times when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed. He, too, used to delay the night prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) sometimes until midnight. He did not like to sleep before Isha and talk after Isha, he replied. Shu'ba says: Then I met Seyyar and asked him what he had heard from Abu Barza. He said: He used to perform the noon prayer when the sun shifted from its zenith to the west. After the afternoon, a man could reach the furthest part of Medina without the sun losing its vitality. "I don't remember what he said about the time of the evening prayer," he said. Later, I met him again and when I asked him about the prayer times, he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform the morning prayer. When a person returning from prayer arrived near his friend, it would be dark enough to see and recognize his face. He used to recite sixty to one hundred verses in the morning prayer. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 3; Musnad: 18956)
500-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to lead the noon prayer in the congregation when the sun went from low to the west. (Dârimi, Salat: 13; Tirmidhi, Salat: 118)
501-) According to the narration from Habbab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We complained to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about the heat of the sand while we were performing the noon prayer. He did not accept the work of early rendering, which would be a solution to this complaint. The early noon prayer for Abu Ishaq? it was said. He said: (Muslim, Masajid: 33; Ibn Majah, Masajid: 14)
502-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: When he stopped in a place, he would not move before performing the noon prayer.) A man said: Even if it was in the middle of the day? When he said that, Anas said: Even if it is in the middle of the day.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 272; Musnad: 11860)
503-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to delay the prayer on hot days and early on cold days.) (Bukhari, Friday: 15)
504-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Perform the noon prayer a little late when it gets intense because the heat is from Hellfire.) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 118; Abu Dawud, Salat: 4)
505-) Fixed b. Qays (radiyallahu anh) narrates from Abu Musa as a merfu and says: delay your prayers to cool times, those hot temperatures are from the fire of Hell.) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 118; Abu Dawud, Salat: 4)
506-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He is Jibril, he has come to teach you your religion. He prayed the morning prayer at dawn. He performed the noon prayer when the sun shifted to the west. He made the afternoon when the shadow of something was as much as himself. He made it in the evening when the sun went down, which is the time when the fasting person will break his fast. Then the night prayer; He made it at the moment when the redness that appeared after the sunset disappeared. Then he came back the next day and prayed the morning prayer when it got a little dark, then he led the noon prayer when everything was as shadowy as himself. Then he led the afternoon prayer when the shadow of everything was doubled. Then, he performed the evening prayer at the same time, when the sun went down, which is the time when the fasting person will break his fast. Then he performed the night prayer when the time had passed, and then said: Prayers are between the times you prayed yesterday and the times you pray today. That is, these are the first and last times when prayers will be performed.) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 115; Muslim, Masajid: 20)
507-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed the noon prayer on summer days when the shadow lengthened by three or five feet; In winter, he would do it when he was five or seven feet tall.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 4)
508-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A man asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the prayer times, and he said: “Make it together.” (and learn) (He prayed the noon prayer when the sun had shifted to the west. He performed the afternoon prayer when the shadow of everything doubled. He performed the evening prayer when the sun went down. He also offered the night prayer when the redness disappeared. Ravi said: Then, when the shadow of the human being doubled, he prayed the afternoon prayer. Abdullah ibn Haris says: Then he said about the night prayer: until one third of the night has passed.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Tirmidhi, Salat: 120)
509-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed the afternoon prayer in my room when the sun was high and the shadow had not yet lengthened. (Tirmidhi, Salat: 120; Ibn Majah, Salat: 5)
510-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), after the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had performed the afternoon prayer, when the sun was still high, a person could go to Quba. in another narration: he used to go to Quba while praying.) In another narration: when he was at a height). (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Ibn Majah, Salat: 5)
511-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would perform the afternoon prayer when the sun was high and bright. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Ibn Majah, Salat: 5)
512-) Again, according to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to lead the afternoon prayer for us when the sun was white and high. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Ibn Majah, Salat: 5)
513-) Sahl b. According to a narration from Hunayf (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umama b. I heard Sahl say: Umar b. After performing the noon prayer with Abdulaziz, he went out to Enes b. We went to Malik. We saw him performing the afternoon prayer: I said to him: What prayer is this prayer you are praying? It is also prayer. He replied, "This is the time of the afternoon prayer that we performed together with the Messenger of Allah." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Ibn Majah, Salat: 5)
514-) According to the narration from Abu Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Umar b. We performed the noon prayer in the time of Abdulaziz, then Enes b. We came to Malik, he was praying. When he finished his prayer, he said to us: Did you pray? We said that we have done the noon prayer. This time he said: I also performed the afternoon prayer. When it is said to him that you have made him early; He said, 'I do as the Companions do. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Ibn Majah, Salat: 5)
515-) According to the narration from Âla (radiy-Allâhu anh), he was Anas b. He had visited Malik at his home in Basra. Anas had come from the noon prayer, his house was next to the mosque. When we entered next to him, he said (Have you prayed the afternoon?). We said: We had just left the noon prayer. He said (Make the afternoon). We immediately got up and performed the afternoon prayer. When we finished the prayer, he said: "The prayer of a person who does not pray until the sun comes down between the two horns of Satan and delays the afternoon prayer and prays four rak'ahs, prays quickly and remembers Allah little and reads little is the prayer of a hypocrite." I heard him say that from )) he said. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Tirmidhi, Salat: 20)
516-) Salim, quoting from his father, says: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); He said, "A person who performs the afternoon prayer is like a person whose family and property have been lost." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Bukhari, Mawaqit: 17)
517-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A person who prays is like a person whose family and property have been lost.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Bukhari, Mawaqit: 17)
518-) Jabir b. According to what is reported from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Jibril came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to teach him prayer times and became Imam. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) stood behind the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and people stood behind him. When the sun shifted from the hill to the west, they performed the noon prayer. When the shadow of everything was doubled, Jibril came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) again. Jibril took the lead, as he had done first. Behind the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), behind the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) in the congregation; led the afternoon prayer. Then he came back when the sun went down. Jibril stepped forward and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) performed the evening prayer behind him, and the congregation behind him. Then, when the redness on the horizon disappeared, Jibril performed the Isha prayer in front of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) behind him, and the congregation performed the night prayer behind the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Then he came at dawn. Jibril advanced. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) performed the morning prayer behind him, and the people behind him. The day came when the shadow of a person was doubled, and he performed the noon prayer as he had done the previous day. Then, when the shadow of a person was doubled, he came, did as he had done the previous day, and led the afternoon prayer. Then, when the sun went down, he came and led the evening prayer by doing what he had done the previous day. We slept in the evening, then we woke up, slept again, and when we woke up, Jibril came, did the night prayer, as he did yesterday. Then he came again, and when it was morning when the dawn spread, he performed the morning prayer by repeating what he had done the previous day while the stars were still visible. Then he said: Between the times I led and the times I led today are the first and last times of those prayers. (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 7; Tirmidhi, Namaz: 113)
519-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever catches two rak'ahs of the afternoon prayer before the sun sets, or if he catches one rak'ah of the morning prayer before the sun rises.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Dârimi, Salat: 22)
520-) Again, according to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A person who catches up to one rakat of the afternoon prayer before sunset, and one who catches up to one rakat of the morning prayer before the sun rises.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Dârimi, Salat: 22)
521-) Again, according to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The person who can catch up to one rakat of the afternoon prayer before sunset, and the person who can catch one rak'ah of the morning prayer before the sun rises, should complete his prayer because he has reached that prayer.” ) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Dârimi, Salat: 22)
522-) Again, according to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever catches up with one rak'ah of the morning prayer before the sun rises will be deemed to have made it to the morning prayer. Whoever catches up with one rak'ah of the afternoon prayer before the sun sets is considered to have reached that prayer.) (Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 5; Dârimi, Salat: 22)
523-) Nasr b. According to what is reported from Abdurrahman's grandfather, Muaz (radiy-Allâhu anh), when we circumambulated the Kaaba with Muaz, he did not pray; don't you pray When he said it, he said: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam: “There is no prayer after the afternoon prayer until the sun sets, and after the morning prayer until the sun rises.” They said. (Musnad: 17244)
524-) Süleyman b. Burayda relates from his father and says: A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and asked about the time of prayer. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: stay together for two days. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered Bilal to bring iqama at the time of fajr and performed the morning prayer. Then, when the sun shifted from the hill to the west, he ordered him to sit down and offered the noon prayer. Then he ordered him to sit down while the sun was white and offered the afternoon prayer. Then, when the sun went down, he prayed and performed the evening prayer. When the redness on the horizon disappeared, he made iqamah and performed the night prayer. He delayed the morning prayer when it started to get light, the noon prayer when the weather got cooler, then the afternoon prayer when it got cool and the sun was white, and then the evening prayer before the redness on the horizon disappeared. Then, when one third of the night had passed, he ordered Bilal to bring the iqama and performed the night prayer. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Where is the person who asks about their time? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Your times are between these two times you see. (Muslim, Masajid: 31; Ibn Majah, Salat: 1)
525-) A person from the tribe of Eslam, one of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) narrates: The Companions would perform the evening prayer together with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and then go to the farthest reaches of Madinah, and at that time they would see the target places that could be hit with arrows. . (Ibn Majah, Salat: 7; Abu Dawud, Salat: 6)
526-) According to the narration from Abu Basra al-Gifari (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led the afternoon prayer in a place called Muhammad and said: The prayer was also ordered for those before you, but they did not follow this order and lost the reward to be earned from it. . Whoever does not miss the afternoon prayer and performs it on time will receive a double reward. After this prayer, the prayer is not performed until the witness appears, the witness is the star.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 5; Dârimi, Salat: 16)
527-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he said: Shu'ba; He used to narrate this hadith, sometimes as merfu and sometimes without merfu, saying: The time for the noon prayer is until the time for the afternoon prayer starts. The time of the afternoon prayer is until the sun turns yellow. The time of the Maghrib prayer is until the redness of the horizon covers large areas. The time for the Isha prayer is until midnight. The time for the morning prayer is until the sun rises. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 3; Ibn Majah, Ikametu's Salat: 9)
528-) Abu Musa (radiyallahu anh) narrated from his father and said: A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and asked about the prayer times. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not answer him. At dawn, he ordered Bilal to bring the iqama. Then, when the sun shifted from the hill to the west, he ordered him to sit for the noon prayer. Someone was saying it was halfway through the day. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) knew this best. Then he ordered him to sit for the afternoon prayer while the sun was still high. Then, when the sun went down, he ordered him to sit down for the evening prayer. Then, when the redness on the horizon disappeared, he ordered him to sit for the night prayer. delayed the morning prayer. Someone was saying the sun is about to rise. Then he delayed the noon prayer until the afternoon prayer of the previous day. Then he delayed the afternoon and led it. Someone said the sun was yellowing. Then he delayed the Maghrib prayer until the red on the horizon disappeared. Then he delayed the night prayer until one-third of the night had passed, and said: "The time is between these two times." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 2; Muslim, Masajid: 31)
529-) Bashir b. Salam (radiyallahu anh) quotes from his father and says: I and Muhammad b. Ali, Câbir b. We went to Abdullah and asked him to talk about the prayers of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), but Yusuf b. It was in the time of Hajjaj. He said: When the sun shifted from the hill to the west, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) left his room and offered the noon prayer. Fey = that is, the shadow falling on the bottom of the item was as wide as the clog strap. Then, when the shadows became as long as a human shadow, he performed the afternoon prayer. When the sun went down, he performed the evening prayer. Then, when the redness on the horizon disappeared, he performed the night prayer, and then he performed the morning prayer when the sun approached. the noon prayer of the day; When the shadows were as tall as a man, he made them. He performed the afternoon prayer when the shadows were as tall as two men. (In other words, he could reach Zulhulayfa with a quick walk in the evening with a thousand thousand.) Then he prayed the evening prayer when the sun went down, then he prayed the night prayer after one third of the night had passed or half of it (It is Zayd who doubted.) When the partnership got dark, he performed the morning prayer. (Muslim, Masajid: 31; Tirmidhi, Salat: 115)
530-) Seyyar b. Sallama (radiyallahu anh) narrates and says: I went to Abu Barza and my father asked Abu Barza how the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed. He also said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to perform the noon prayer, which we call the first prayer, when the sun shifted from the hill to the west. After performing the Asr prayer, we could go to the furthest place of Madinah and return in a thousand tons before the sun went down. I forgot what you said about the evening prayer. He liked to make the night prayer called ateme late. He did not like to sleep before the night prayer and to talk after the night prayer. After performing the morning prayer, it would be dark enough for a person to see and recognize his friend's face. In the morning prayer, he would read between sixty and one hundred verses.) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 122; Ibn Mâce, Salat: 12)
531-) Jabir b. Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) says: Jibril came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) when the sun was shifting from the hill to the west and said: Muhammad get up and perform the noon prayer. After a while, when the shadows became the size of a man, he came for the afternoon prayer and said: Muhammad get up and perform the afternoon prayer. A little while later, when the sun set, he came back and said: "Establish the evening." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got up and offered his prayer as the sun went down. Then, after some time passed, when the redness on the horizon disappeared, he came again and said: Make the night. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) got up immediately and performed the night prayer. Then he came at dawn, came again for the morning prayer and said: Muhammad get up and perform the morning prayer. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) got up and offered the morning prayer. The next day, when the shadow was the size of a man, he came and said: O Muhammad! He said, "Make the prayer." The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) prayed for noon. Then the shadow came when it was the size of two men: Mohammed! Get up and pray. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) got up and performed the afternoon prayer. Then he came for the evening at the same time as the sun was setting and said: "Perform the prayer." The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) also performed the evening prayer. Then, after one third of the night for the night prayer, he came and said: "Perform the prayer." The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) got up and performed the night prayer. Then, when it got dark for the morning prayer, he came: pray. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the morning prayer; Jibril said: The entire time between your two prayers is prayer time. (Tirmidhi, Salat: 123; Bukhari, Bed-il Vahy: 6)
532-) Muhammed b. Amr b. According to the narration from Hasan (radiyallahu anh), he said: At the time of Jabir b. When we asked Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh) about the prayer times, he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said the noon prayer after the sun had shifted to the west, in the afternoon when the sun was still bright, and in the evening when the sun went down, sometimes at the first time when he saw the congregation gather, that is, early. Sometimes, in the face of the late arrival of the congregation, he would delay it and make it late.) (Bukhari, Mavakît: 23; Dârimi, Salat: 3)
533-) Numan b. According to the narration from Bashir (radiyallahu anh), he said: I am the one who knows best when to perform the night prayer, which is the last prayer among people. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) would perform the night prayer when the moon set for three days. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 7; Tirmidhi, Salat: 123)
534-) Numan b. According to the narration from Bashir (radiyallahu anh), he said: I swear I know best the time of the night prayer, which is the last prayer performed in a day. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) would perform the night prayer when the moon set for three days.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 7; Tirmidhi, Salat: 123)
535-) Seyyar b. According to the narration from Salama (radiyallahu anh), he said: I and my father entered Abu Barza al-Aslemi. My father said to him: Can you tell us about the obligatory prayers that sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed? After the afternoon prayer, we could go to the farthest part of Medina without losing the brightness of the sun. I forgot what you said about the evening prayer. He liked to make the night prayer, which you call Ateme, late. He did not like to sleep before Isha and talk after Isha. After the morning prayer, it would be bright enough for a person to recognize his friend. He used to recite sixty to one hundred verses in the morning prayer.) (Ibn Majah, Salat: 12; Tirmidhi, Salat: 123)
536-) According to the narration from Ibn Jurayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: I said, "When would you recommend that I perform the night prayer alone or as an imam?" Ata said: I heard Ibn Abbas saying: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) delayed the night prayer so much that people fell asleep and woke up again. Omar stood up and said prayer. Citing Ibn Abbas, Ata said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) -as if I can see it now- came out of his room with water dripping from his head and placed his hand on the right side of his head, and said: If it had not been difficult, I would have ordered them to delay the night. (Bukhari, Mevakît: 25; Dârimi, Salat: 20)
537-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) delayed the night prayer one day until the night had progressed considerably. Thereupon, Umar said: Allah's Apostle! “Women and children fell asleep during the prayer.” At that time, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came out of his room with water running down his head and said: If it had not been difficult, it would have been this time for the night prayer. (Bukhari, Mevakît: 25; Dârimi, Salat: 20)
538-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to delay the night prayer until the last time. (Muslim, Masajid: 39; Musnad: 19910)
539-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Had it not been difficult, I would have ordered them to delay the night prayer and use the miswak in every prayer. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 25; Tirmidhi, Tahara: 18)
540-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: One night, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) delayed the night prayer called Atama, so Omar called out: “And the women fell asleep.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) left his room and said: He said, 'There is no one else waiting in this Madinah except you.) (That is, there was no one praying in any place other than Medina in those days.) and he continued as follows: Perform the prayer within the time limit of the disappearance of the redness on the horizon until one third of the night has passed.) (Bukhari, Mawaqit: 25; Muslim, Masacid: 39)
541-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the mother of the believers, she said: One night; The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) delayed the night prayer until most of the night had passed, but those in the mosque fell asleep. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) went out, performed the night prayer and said: If it were not difficult, the night prayer would have been performed at this time.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 7; Dârimi, Salat: 19)
542-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: We waited for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) for the night prayer. When a third or more of the night had passed, he came to us and said: You are waiting for the prayer, no other religious person is waiting for this prayer. If it had not been heavy for my ummah, I would have led them in prayer at this hour.) Then he ordered the muezzin to bring the iqama and led the prayer.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 7; Dârimi, Salat: 19)
543-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: After leading us the evening prayer, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not come to us until part of the night had passed. After they had prayed, they went to sleep. As long as you wait for the prayer, you are considered to be in prayer. If you were not weak and sick, I would order him to delay this prayer until midnight.) (Dârimi, Salat: 19; Muslim, Masacid: 39)
544-) According to the narration from Humayd (radiyallahu anh), they asked Anas: did he wear a ring? Anas said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) delayed the night prayer until midnight approached. After he led the prayer and turned his face towards us, he said: As long as you wait for the prayer, you will be considered in prayer.) Enes says: At that time; It is as if I see the shining ring of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). (Dârimi, Salat: 19; Muslim, Masâcid: 39)
545-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If people knew the value and value of calling the adhan and praying in the first row, and if it was possible for them to do this only by drawing lots. they would pull. If people knew the blessings and rewards of coming to prayer early, they would compete in this regard. If they knew the blessings and rewards in Atama (Isha) and morning prayers, they would definitely come to these prayers even if they were crawling.) (Only Nasai narrated.)
546-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Let them not change the name of this night prayer as (atama) because they overpower you. Because they are kept in the dark due to their preoccupation with the camels, they give it that name, whereas it is the night prayer. You use this name.) (Only Nasai narrated it.)
547-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saying on the pulpit: Let them not try to change the name of the prayer by overpowering you, that prayer is night prayer.) (Only narrated by Nasai .)
548-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Sallallaahu 'alaihi wa sallam) led the morning prayer at dawn.) (Only Nasai narrated.)
549-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and asked about the time of the morning prayer. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered us to sit down at dawn the next day and led us in prayer. The next day, when it got dark, he had the iqama brought and led us in prayer: Where is the person who asked about the time of his prayer? Between these two times is the time of the morning prayer). (Musnad: 12410)
550-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: After leading the morning prayer, women dressed in their veils would not be noticed when returning from the prayer because it was dark.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 8; Dârimi, Salat: 20)
551-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: They used to perform the morning prayer behind the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with their outer coverings. No one would recognize them because of the darkness on their return.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 8; Dârimi, Salat: 20)
552-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led the morning prayer on the morning of the conquest of Khaybar, when it was dark near the enemy, and attacked Khaybar, saying: "Akbar, may Khaybar be destroyed." He cursed twice and said similarly to the 177th verse of the chapter of Saffat: How bad will the morning of those who were warned will be when we go down to the land of the people for war.) (Bukhari, Megazi: 40; Ibn Majah, Zebaih: 13)
553-) Rafi b. According to the narration from Hadic (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): pray when it gets dark. (Ibn Majah, Salat: 2; Tirmidhi, Salat: 117)
554-) According to the narration of some of the Ansar, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: You will get greater rewards by performing your prayer when it is light.) (Ibn Majah, Salat: 2; Tirmidhi, Salat: 117)
555-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If one performs one rak'ah of the morning prayer before the sun rises, it will be deemed to have reached that prayer. Whoever catches up with one rak'ah of the afternoon prayer before sunset will have reached that prayer.) (Darimi, Salat: 22; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 5)
556-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If the sun reaches one rakat of the morning prayer before sunrise, it is considered to have reached that prayer. Whoever catches up with one rak'ah of the afternoon prayer before the sun sets is considered to have caught up with that prayer and performed it on time.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 9; Dârimi, Salat: 20)
557-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) performed the noon prayer when the sun shifted to the west. He used to pray the afternoon prayer between the noon prayer that you offered and the afternoon prayer. Evening prayer, sunset, night prayer; He would pray when the redness on the horizon disappeared and he would perform the morning prayer when his sight distance increased. (Tirmidhi, Salat: 116; Musnad: 11862)
558-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: A person who catches up with one rakat is deemed to have made it to that prayer and performed it on time.) (Darimi, Salat: 21; Muvatta', Mavakit: 2 )
559-) Again, according to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A person who catches up with one rak'ah of a prayer on time is considered to have made it to that prayer and performed it on time.) (Dârimi, Salat: 21; Muvatta' , Mevakît: 2)
560-) Again, according to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: A person who reaches one rakat of the prayer on time is considered to have performed that prayer on time.) (Dârimi, Salat: 21; Muvatta', Mavakît: 2nd)
561-) Again, according to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If one rak'ah of a prayer arrives on time, it is considered to have made it to that prayer and performed it on time.) (Darimi, Salat: 21; Muvatta', Mevakît: 2)
562-) According to the narration of Salim (radiy-Allâhu anh) from his father, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The prayer of a person who catches up with his prayer and one rakat of the other prayers on time is complete.) (Ibn Majah, Iqamatu's Salat: 91)
563-) Again, according to the narration from Salim (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A person who catches up with one rak'ah of a prayer is considered to have reached that prayer. But he completes the rest by himself.) (Dârimi, Salat: 22; Muvatta', Mevakît: 3)
564-) According to the narration from Abdullah es Sunabihi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: At sunrise, the devil approaches the sun to bring it between his horns, and when the sun rises a little, he moves away from it. When it reaches the peak, it approaches again. It moves away again when it moves west. As the sun sets, it approaches again, and when it sets it goes away.) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade performing prayers at these times. (Ibn Majah, Iqamatu's Salat: 91; Musnad: 18290)
565-) Ukbe b. According to the narration from Amir al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh), he said: There are three times; The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade us to pray and bury our dead at those times: Until the sun rises and rises a little, 2- Unless the sun turns from the hill to the west, 3- From the time the sun approaches to sunset.) (Abu Dawud, Janaiz: 54; Ibn Majah, Funeral: 30)
566-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said; He forbade performing supererogatory prayers from morning prayer until sunrise. (Tirmidhi, Salat: 135; Bukhari, Mevakît: 31)
567-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard it from many people from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). One of them is Omer, whom I love the most. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) forbade performing supererogatory prayers after dawn until the sun rises and after the afternoon prayer until the sun sets. (Bukhari, Mevakît: 31; Tirmidhi, Salat: 135)
568-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Do not wait and pray while the sun is rising or setting.) (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 11; Muslim, Salat-ul Your guest: 53)
569-) Again, according to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade performing supererogatory prayers at the time of sunrise and sunset. (Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 53; Bukhari, Bed-ul Halk:11)
570-) Uqbe b. According to the narration from Amir (radiyallahu anh), he said: There are three hours: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade us to perform voluntary prayers and bury our dead at that time. Until the sun rises and rises a little, when the sun is directly overhead, until the sun approaches and sets. (Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 53; Abu Dawud, Cenaiz: 54)
571-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade performing supererogatory prayers after the morning prayer until the sun rose and after the afternoon prayer until the sun went down. (Tirmidhi, Salat: 135; Bukhari, Mevakît: 31)
572-) Again, according to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “There is no supererogatory prayer after the afternoon prayer until the sun rises.” (Bukhari) , Mevakît: 31; Tirmidhi, Salat: 135
574-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade performing supererogatory prayers after the afternoon prayer. (Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 53; Abu Dawud, Cenaiz: 54)
575-) It was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) that Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) said that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said; He conjectures that he said, "Do not wait and wait, and do not coincide with praying at the times when the sun will rise and set. Because the sun rises and sets between the horns of the devil." (That is, he thinks that prayer will not be performed only during these two hours.) (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 51; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 5)
577-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Delay your prayer until its tip appears and it rises well. Delay your prayers until the sun starts to set and sets.) Those times are the prayer times of sun worshipers. (Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 51; Abu Dawud, Salat: 5)
579-) Amr b. According to a narration from Abese (radiyallahu anh), he said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): Messenger of Allah! Is there a time to be close to Allah worth investigating? or is there a preferred hour for worship?) The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When he is closest to Allah; it is towards the end of the night. If you want to be one of those who remember Allah in those hours, be. Because angels come and especially witness the prayer to be performed at that time until the sun rises. The sun rises between the two horns of the devil, that hour is the prayer and worship hour of the unbelievers who worship the sun. Do not pray until the sun rises a spear-length and begins to shine brightly. Then, in the middle of the day, the angels are ready and testify in the prayer that is performed until the sun rises as a spear-length spear. When the sun is high, the gates of Hell are opened and the intensity of the fire increases. Stop praying at those moments, and do not pray until the sun goes to the west and the shadows get longer. Angels are ready and witness to the prayers performed until the sun sets after that. Because the sun sets between the horns of the devil, that hour is the prayer and prayer time of the unbelievers who worship the sun.) (Ibn Mace, Ikametü's Salat: 182; Muslim, Salat-ül Müsafirin: 52)
580-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): It can be performed if the sun is bright, white and not too high (to the point of setting). He forbade performing prayers after the afternoon prayer.) (In other words, this is a time that changes according to the seasons.) (Dârimi, Salat: 143; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 299)
581-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she says: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was with me, he never stopped performing two rak'ah prayers after the afternoon. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 299; Dârimi, Salat: 143)
582-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: Every time the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to me after the afternoon, he would definitely perform those two rak'ahs. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 299; Dârimi, Salat: 143)
583-) According to the narration from Mesruk and Eswad (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) they said: ; Dârimi, Salat: 143)
584-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: When he was with me, he would never leave two prayers; He would do it, whether it was overt or in secret. Two rak'ahs before the morning prayer and two rak'ahs after the afternoon prayer.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 299; Dârimi, Salat: 143)
585-) According to the narration from Abu Salama (radiyallahu anh), he said: I asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha) about the two rak'ah prayers that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed after the afternoon. Aisha said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform those two rak'ahs before the afternoon. One day, he forgot it for some reason and left it after the afternoon. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) started a prayer, he would make it a habit to perform it and continue. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 299; Dârimi, Salat: 143)
586-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) once performed two rak’ahs of prayer in my room after the afternoon. I asked him what prayer this prayer was, and he replied as follows: I was performing these two rak'ahs in the afternoon, but I could not find time to do it due to busyness, so I did it after the afternoon. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 299; Dârimi, Salat: 143)
587-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: Sallallaahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed two rak'ahs after the afternoon, which he could not perform before the afternoon due to being too busy.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 299; Dârimi, Salat: 143)
588-) Imran b. According to the narration from Hudayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: I asked Lahik about the two rak'ah prayers that were performed before the sun went down. These two rak'ahs, Abdullah b. He said that Zubayr did it. Hearing this, Muawiya Abdullah b. When he sent a message to Zubayr and asked him what prayer is the two-rak'ah prayer performed before the sun goes down; Abdullah had to ask Umm Salama. Salama said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform this prayer before the afternoon. He couldn't do it one day because of his busyness, so he did it while the sun was going down. I have never seen him perform this prayer again, neither before nor after. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 299; Dârimi, Salat: 143)
589-) It is narrated from Abu'l Hayr (radiy-Allâhu anh). When Abu Tamim al Ceyşani tried to pray two rak'ahs before the evening prayer, Uqba b. I said to Amir, "Look at what prayer he is praying". When Uqba turned to Abu Tamim and saw him; He said, "We used to perform this prayer in the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Musnad: 16775)
590-) According to the narration from Hafsa (radiyallahu anha), he said: sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) would pray two rak'ahs lightly after the fajr.) (Darimi, Salat: 146; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 14)
591-) Amr b. According to a narration from Abese (radiyallahu anh), he said: I came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: Allah's Messenger! I said, "Who became Muslims with you?" (Everyone, free and slave) said. When he says (Is there a time to be closer to Allah?): Pray as much as you want from the last third of the night to the time of the morning prayer, then stop until the sun rises. pray, then stop for a while, when everything is as much as your own shadow, continue to pray, then stop until the day is on the hill, wait because at that time the fire of Hell is ignited, then pray as you wish until the time of the afternoon prayer, then stop until the sun sets again because the sun is between the horns of the devil sinks and rises from between its horns. (Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 52; Ibn Majah, Ikametu's Salat: 182)
592-) Jubayr b. According to the narration from Mut'im (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Never prevent the sons of Abdi Manaf from circumambulating this Kaaba and praying at any time of the day or night.) (Ibn Majah, Iqamatu's Salat: 149; Tirmidhi, Hajj: 41)
593-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), if he went on a journey before the sun had set to the west, he would delay the noon prayer until the afternoon prayer and then pray them together at the same time in the place where he stopped. If the time has come before the departure, he makes noon and then sets off.) (Dârimi, Salat: 182; Muslim, Salat-ül Müsafirin: 5)
594-) Muaz b. According to what is reported from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh), we set out with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the year of the Battle of Tabuk. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to pray by combining noon and afternoon, evening and night. One day he delayed the noon and performed it with the afternoon. Then he continued his journey and after a while, he performed evening and night prayers together. (Bukhari, Takrus Salat: 14; Dârimi, Salat: 182)
595-) Kesir b. According to the narration from Karavenda (radiyallahu anh), he said: Salim b. I asked Abdullah if his father combined prayers on his journey, and he said: One day, while my father was working in the field, his wife, Abu Ubayd's daughter, Safiye, sent a text message saying: I am on the last day of the world, that is, I am about to die. When he heard this news, he got on his board and set off quickly, it was close to noon. When the muezzin said: Abu Abdurrahman!), my father said; He did not listen to the muezzin and continued on his way, stopped somewhere between noon and afternoon, and when he gave the salam, he said to sit down again. After we put the noon and afternoon together in this way, we continued on our journey until the sun went down. When the muezzin told him to pray, he said: You will do as you did in the noon and afternoon prayers) and continued on his way, he went and stayed until all the stars were seen, and he said 'sit down and salute to the muezzin and sit down again.' : The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “If any of you has an urgent business and is afraid that the time will pass, let him perform their prayers together in this way.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 272; Bukhari, Jihad and Siyer: 196)
596-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I spent eight rak'ahs together (noon and afternoon) in Madinah for seven rak'ahs (evening and nightfall) together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). delayed and rushed the afternoon. He delayed the evening, hastened the night, and offered two prayers together. (Muvatta', Kasr-us Salat: 1; Tirmidhi, Salat: 138)
597-) Again, according to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), when he was busy in Basra, he performed noon and afternoon prayers together, and did not perform any other prayers in between. Then he performed the evening and night prayers together and did not offer another prayer in between. He did this because he was busy, and he said: I performed noon and afternoon prayers together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and I did not offer any other prayer in between. (Muvatta', Kasr-us Salat: 1; Tirmidhi, Salat: 138)
598-) Ismail b. Abdurrahman explains. I was with Ibn Umar on the way to Hima, I was going to say let's pray when the sun goes down, but he continued on his way. When the whiteness on the horizon disappeared and the darkness of the night time covered the place, he got off his horse and said, "I saw sallallahu alaihi wa sallam doing this." (Bukhari, Mavakît: 20; Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 5)
599-) Sâlim (radiy-Allâhu anh) cites his father, saying: When he had to hurry on a journey, he would delay the evening prayer and perform the night prayer together.) (Bukhari, Mavakît: 20; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 5)
600-) According to what is narrated from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was in Mecca. The sun went down and he performed the evening prayer together with the night prayer in a place called Serif.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 274; Musnad: 14543)
601-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: when he had to go fast on a journey, he would delay the noon prayer, and when the afternoon began, he would do both together, again, he would delay the evening prayer, and when the redness on the horizon disappeared, he would pray it together with the night prayer.) (Abu David, Salat: 274; Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 5)
602-) According to what is reported from Nafi (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abdullah b. I was with Ömer, he was going to a land given to him. At that time, someone came and said: Safiye, the daughter of Ubayd, is sick, hurry up. Thereupon, Abdullah set off quickly, accompanied by a person from Quraysh. They did not perform the evening when the sun went down, but they were very careful and sensitive to their prayers, when I saw that they were slow, I said: have mercy on you, let's pray. He looked at my face and continued on his way, stopped when the redness on the horizon was about to disappear, made the evening, then brought an iqama - At that time, the redness on the horizon had disappeared - he led us the night prayer, then turned to us and said: (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) he would do this when he had to go fast on the journey. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 274; Bukhari, Jihad and Siyer: 196)
603-) According to the narration from Nafi (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abdullah b. We set off from Mecca with Omar, and he led us on the road until nightfall. We thought that he forgot the evening prayer, so we told him to pray. He continued on his way without making a sound. The red on the horizon had almost disappeared. Then he stopped and prayed in the evening, the redness had disappeared, he also offered the night prayer, and turned to us and said: When we had to go fast, we used to do this with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Abu Dawud, Salat: 274; Bukhari, Jihad and Siyer: 196)
604-) Kathir b. According to the narration from Karavenda (radiyallahu anh), he said: b. To Abdullah: Your father, Abdullah b. We asked, "Would Omar gather prayers while traveling?" Salim said: It would only be performed in Muzdalifah. Then I came to Salim and said the following: His wife Safiye had sent a message to my father Abdullah saying: I am on the last, first day of the hereafter, I am about to die). My father rode his camel and I was with him, we were traveling fast. The prayer time had narrowed, and the muezzin said, "O Abu Abdurrahman! Let's pray." But my father continued on his way and stopped when it was between noon and afternoon. He said to the muezzin: meat. The muezzin brought the iqama, after praying two rak'ahs at noon and saluting, the muezzin brought the iqama again without leaving his place. He performed the afternoon prayer as two rak'ahs and set off quickly. When the sun went down, the muezzin said: Abu Abdurrahman! When he says, "Let's pray"; He said you will do as you did before and continued on his way, when the dusk came and the stars increased, he stopped. He said to the muezzin: meat. When I was ready to pray, he performed the fard of the evening prayer as three rak'ahs. Without leaving his place, the muezzin again brought the iqama, made two rak'ahs of the fard of the night prayer, turned to us with a single salutation in front of him and said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If one of you has a job that he fears will pass, let him perform his prayers like this. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 274; Bukhari, Jihad and Siyer: 196)
605-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had serious affairs that required fast travel, they used to pray the evening and night prayers together. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 274; Bukhari, Jihad and Siyer: 195)
606-) Again, according to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to combine evening and night prayers in situations that required speeding or when there was an important event. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 274; Bukhari, Jihad and Siyer: 195)
607-) According to the narration from Salim's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father, he said: I saw (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). and Sirah: 195)
608-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to combine noon and afternoon, evening and nightfall, even when he was not traveling and there was no fear. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 274; Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 5)
609-) Again, according to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to combine noon and afternoon, evening and night prayers together, even though it was not raining, when there was nothing to fear in Medina. Why would he do that? Ibn 'Abbas replied, "so that there is no difficulty". (Abu Dawud, Salat: 274; Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 5)
610-) Again, according to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I performed eight rak'ahs together (that is, noon and afternoon) and seven rak'ahs together (evening and night prayers) behind sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). Abu Dawud, Salat: 274; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 5)
611-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: "Sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam] walked on the pilgrimage, and when he arrived in Arafat, he landed in his tent prepared for him in a place called Namira. When the sun shifted from the hill to the west, he ordered his camel named Kusva to be prepared. When he got on his camel and came to the Batni Nahle Valley, he gave a sermon to the people there. Then Bilal recited the call to prayer and brought Iqamah; When it was noon, he sat down again and the afternoon prayer was also performed. He did not perform another prayer between these two times. (Dârimi, Menasik: 51; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 57)
612-) According to what is quoted from Abu Ayyub al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I performed the evening and nightfall together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in Muzdalifa during his pilgrimage.) (Ibn Mace, Menasik: 60; Bukhari, Hajj: 93)
613-) Said b. According to the narration from Jubayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: While descending from Arafat, Abdullah b. I was with Ömer. When he came to Muzdalifah, he performed evening and night prayers together. When he finished his prayer, he said: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had done so in this place.) (Ibn Mace, Menasik: 60; Bukhari, Hajj: 93)
614-) According to the narration from Ibn Omar (radiy-Allâhu anh): (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed the evening and night prayers together in Muzdalifah.) (Ibn Mace, Menasik: 60; Bukhari, Hajj: 93)
615-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Masud (radiy-Allâhu anh), I have not seen him perform two prayers together, except in Muzdalifah. That day, he performed the morning prayer before its time.) (Ibn Mace, Menasik: 60; Bukhari, Hajj: 93)
616-) Usama b. According to the narration from Zayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was behind the riding of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) when I was descending from Arafat. When he came to the place called Shib, he made his small ablution. (Ravi did not say that he had made a bath with water.) I poured water on his hand and he made a light ablution. I said to him: Will you make it? (Prayer is ahead) he said. When he arrived in Muzdalifah, he performed the evening prayer. After the Companions unloaded, he performed the night prayer. (Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 59; Dârimi, Menasik: 51)
617-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Masud (radiyallahu anh), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him): "Deeds are more beloved to Allah." He said: The prayer performed is to do good to parents and jihad in the way of Allah.) (Bukhari, Mavakît: 6; Tirmidhi, Salat: 129)
618-) Again, Abdullah b. According to the narration from Masud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): What is his favorite deed? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Jihad in the way of Allah.) (Bukhari, Mavakît: 6; Tirmidhi, Salat: 129)
619-) Muhammed b. Münteshir (radiyallahu anh) narrates it from his father. Amr b. I was in the masjid where Shurahbil was leading the prayer; They were waiting for me, the iqama was brought for the morning prayer. I also said that I would make a witr. Is it permissible to perform witr for Abdullah after the adhan? they asked. Abdullah said: It is performed even after the iqama, and he narrated the following hadith of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam): He fell asleep until the sun rose one day, then got up and prayed.) (Only Nasai narrated.)
620-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If he forgets and cannot pray, he should immediately do it when he remembers.) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 131; Ibn Majah, Salat: 10)
621-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked about the condition of a person who fell asleep and performed the prayer, and he said: The expiation for the prayer is to perform it when one wakes up and remembers it.) (Ibn Majah, Salat: 10 ; Dârimi, Salat: 26)
622-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to those who were asked if they missed their prayers because they slept, and it is not considered a great fault that they cannot wake up from the sleep of their life and that they fall asleep and pray, albeit rarely. The main fault and crime is not to perform the prayer while awake. If one of you forgets or falls asleep, he should pray when he wakes up and remembers.) (Ibn Maje, Salat: 10; Dârimi, Salat: 26)
623-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is no great crime or fault in missing the prayer, even if it is rare, because he cannot wake up from the sleep of his life. Main fault and crime; It is what a person who does not pray on time and neglects and delays the prayer until the next time comes in. (Ibn Mace, Salat: 9; Dârimi, Salat: 26)
624-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and those with him fell asleep until the sun came up. For the prayer of the day when they did not perform the morning prayer, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Let them perform this prayer at the time of the morning prayer tomorrow. (Ibn Majah, Salat: 9; Dârimi, Salat: 26)
625-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If you forget, do it immediately when you remember. Because; Allah (celle celâluhu) says: Be persistent and sensitive in your prayers in order to remember and remember. (20 Taha 14), that is, remember me and pray immediately.) (Ibn Majah, Salat: 10; Tirmidhi, Salat: 130)
626-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he forgets the prayer but cannot perform it, let him perform it as soon as he remembers, because Allah: Taha 14) also says: Be persistent and sensitive in your prayer to remember and remember. .) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 131; Ibn Majah, Salat: 10)
627-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he forgets to pray, he should do it immediately when he remembers. Because Allah: Taha: 14) also says: be constant and sensitive in your prayers to remember and remember.) I said to Zuhri: Did he read it like this?) He said: (Tirmidhi, Salat: 131; Ibn Majah, Salat: 10)
633-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: When they came to Madinah, no one was calling them for prayer, they were arranging the prayer times themselves. One day they started talking about this subject, some of them said: Let's use the bell that the Christians use. Others said: Let's use the trumpet used by the Jews. Thereupon, Omar said: "Is it okay if you appoint a man and call people to prayer?" when you say; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to Bilal: and call people to prayer. (Ibn Maje, Adhan: 1; Bukhari, Adhan: 1)
634-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said the following: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered Bilal to say the words of the adhan twice, and to say the words of the adhan once in the qat.) (Ibn Mace, Adhan: 1; Tirmidhi, Salat: 141)
635-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: In the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), the words of the adhan were repeated twice, and in the iqama, they were said one by one. (Ibn Maje, Azan: 1; Tirmidhi, Salat: 141)
636-) According to the narration from Abu Mahzure (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made me sit next to him and taught the adhan one by one. Ibrahim says: It was like the adhan we recited. I told him to repeat it to me, and he said: akbar Allahu akbar en la ilaha illallah (twice) anna Muhammeden Rasulullah (twice) (twice) (twice) akbar Allahu akbar ilaha illallah (Ibn Majah, Adhan: 1; Abu David, Salat: 28)
637-) According to the narration from Abu Mahzure (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The iqama consists of nineteen words, and the iqama consists of seventeen words. (Ibn Maje, Azan: 1; Tirmidhi, Salat: 141)
638-) According to the narration from Abu Mahzure (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) taught me the adhan: akbar, Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar en la ilaha illallah, Ashhadu anla ilaha illallah enne Muhammeden Rasûlullah, Eşhedü enne Muhammeden Rasûlüllâh ales Salah, Hayye ales Salah allel Felâh, Hayya allel Felâh akbar Allahu akbar ilahe illallah) (Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 28; İbn Mâce, Adhan: 2)
639-) Abdullah b. Muhayriz (radiyallahu anh) narrates. I was an orphan who grew up with Abu Mahzure. While he was sending me to Damascus, I said to him: I am going to Damascus, I am afraid that people there will ask me how you call the adhan. Thereupon, he told me the following: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was returning from the battle of Hunayn, we were on the way to Hunayn as a group, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) met us on the way. The muezzin started to call the adhan for prayer next to him. When we heard the muezzin's voice, we started repeating to ourselves what he said, mocking his reading. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) heard our voice, he called us to him. When he came to his presence, he asked: Which one of you was it?) My friends had shown me, so the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent them and took me with him. Then: recite the adhan) he said. I stood up immediately and the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) taught me the adhan as follows. He was saying (adhan words) and saying to me exactly like this: akbar, Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar en la ilaha illallah, Ashhadu anla ilahe illallah enne Muhammeden Rasûlullah, Eşhedü enne Muhammeden Rasûlullah came, he said: and repeat with lowering your voice. en la ilahe illallah, Eşhedü en la ilahe illallah enne muhammaden Rasulullah, Eşhedü enne Muhammeden Rasûlullâh alessalâh, Hayye alessalâh allel felâh, Hayya allel felâ akbar Allahu akbar La ilahe illallah) after reciting the call to me, she called me and gave me some silver (La ilaha illallah) in it. I said: Messenger of Allah! I said, 'Order me to call the adhan in Mecca. He said: I have assigned this task). Thereupon, Attab b. I came to Esid and recited the adhan together with the order of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Ibn Majah, Azan: 2; Dârimi, Salat: 6)
640-) According to the narration from Abu Mahzure (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) set out from Hunayn, we went out to meet them with a team of ten people. When I heard that they were calling the adhan for prayer on the way; We started mocking them by imitating their adhan. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) called us to him by saying: I heard someone chanting the adhan with a beautiful voice among you. We also recited the call to prayer one by one, and I was the last to recite it. When I recited the adhan, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sat me down in front of him, patted my head and prayed three times that Allah would bless him. Then he said: Say the adhan in the Kaaba in Mecca.) I said: I don't know how to recite it). Then he taught me to read the adhan the way you read it now: akbar, Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar en la ilahe illallah, Eşhedü en la ilahe illallah enne Muhammeden Rasulullah, Eşhedü enne Muhammeden Rasûlüllâh alessalâh, Hayye alessalâh aelel felâh, Hayyedu Minennevm, essalât-ü Hayrun Minennevm told me to add to the morning prayer) akbar Allahu akbar La ilahe illallah) and taught me to do as follows: akbar, Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar en la ilaha illallah, Eşhedü en la ilahe illallah enne Allahu Muhammeden Rashu Eşhedü enne Muhammeden Rasûlüllâh alessalâh, Hayye alessalâh allel felâh, Hayye alel felâh kamet-is salâtü Kad kamet-is salâh akbar Allahu akbar ilahe illallah.) (Dârimi, Salat: 6; İbn Mâce, Azan: 2)
641-) Malik b. According to a narration from Huwayris (radiyallahu anh), he said: I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) with his son. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to us: When you go on a journey, call the adhan and bring the iqama, and your eldest will be an imam for you. (Tirmidhi, Salat: 151; Bukhari, Adhan: 18)
642-) Malik b. According to a narration from Huwayris (radiyallahu anh), he said: We came to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and we were all young men of roughly the same age. We stayed with Him for twenty days. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was very subtle, sensitive, compassionate and understanding. Thinking we missed our families, he asked who we left behind. So we said we left our families and told us: go back to them, stay with them, teach them religion. When the time for prayer comes, order them to pray. Let one of you call the adhan, and let your eldest be an imam for you). (Tirmidhi, Salat: 151; Bukhari, Adhan: 18)
643-) According to the narration from Ayyub (radiyallahu anh), Amr b. Salama said to me: Abu Qalabe is alive, do you want to meet him? Ayyub said: I met him and asked him, and he gave the following answer. When Mecca was conquered, all tribes competed to become Muslims. Meanwhile, my father went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) to inform him that the people of our village were Muslims. When he came, we greeted him and said to us: By Allah, I am coming from the Messenger of Allah. He said: Perform this prayer at this time and this prayer at this time. Salat: 151; Bukhari, Adhan: 18)
644-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He calls the adhan at night. You; Eat and drink until you hear Umm Maktum's call to prayer.) (Bukhari, Adhan: 11; Dârimi, Salat: 4)
645-) According to the narration from the father of Salim (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He calls the adhan at night. Eat and drink until you recite the Umm Maktum adhan.) (Bukhari, Adhan: 11; Dârimi, Salat: 4)
646-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: After reciting the adhan, eat and drink until Umm Maktum recites the adhan. (Bukhari, Azan: 11; Dârimi, Salat: 4)
647-) Hubayb b. According to the narration from Abdurrahman's aunt, Uneyse (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Eat and drink when the letter reads the adhan, but stop eating and drinking when Bilal calls the adhan.” (Bukhari, Azan: 11; Dârimi, Salat: 4)
648-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He calls the adhan at night to wake those who are asleep and to bring those who have made tahajjud back to bed, that is, its adhan is not for the morning prayer.) (Bukhari, Adhan: 13; Dârimi, Salat: 4)
649-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), someone asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the time of the morning prayer. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered Bilal to call the adhan. Bilal recited the call to prayer at dawn. The next day, he delayed the morning prayer until it was clear, then he ordered, the iqama was brought and the prayer was performed, and he said: The time between these two times is the time of the morning prayer.) (Bukhari, Adhan: 13; Dârimi, Salat: 4)
650-) Avn b. Abi Juhayfa quotes her father as saying: I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Meanwhile, Bilal got up and started to call the prayer. While reciting the adhan, he was turning left and right. (Dârimi, Salat: 8; Tirmidhi, Salat: 142)
651-) Abdurrahman b. Abdullah b. Abdurrahman b. Narrated by ebi Sa'saal (radiyallahu anh) from his father, Sarielmazini says: Abu Said al-Khudri said to him: You love the desert life and your sheep very much. Raise your voice when you are in the desert and with your sheep and when you call the adhan for prayer, because jinn, humans and everything that hears the voice of the caller will testify in favor of the muezzin on the Day of Judgment. That's exactly how I heard it. ) (Ibn Majah, Azan: 5; Abu Dawud, Salat: 31)
652-) Abu Yahya (radiy-Allâhu anh) heard it from Abu Hurayra, and Abu Hurayra heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say the following from his own mouth: His sins are forgiven as far as his voice reaches or when his voice is louder. Everything that is wet and dry bears witness to it, as far as its voice reaches.) (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 31; İbn Mâce, Adhan: 5)
653-) Bera b. According to the narration from Azib (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: And his angels congratulate those in the first row. As for the muezzin, his sins are forgiven in proportion to his loud voice. Everything and everyone who hears the muezzin's voice, whether wet or dry, animate or inanimate, confirms what the muezzin said. The reward of those who pray together with the muezzin is written for the muezzin.) (Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 31; İbn Mâce, Azan: 5)
654-) According to the narration from Abu Mahzûre (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I was the muezzin of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). In the adhan I recited in the morning prayer, I was reciting (Essalatu hayrun minen nevm) (Essalatu hayrün minen nevm) (Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar) (La ilaha illallah) after the words (Hayye allel felah). (Abu Dawud, Salat: 31; Ibn Majah, Adhan: 3)
656-) According to the narration from Bilal (radiyallahu anh), the last sentence of the Adhan is: akbar Allahu akbar, la ilaha illallah). (Only Nasai narrated it.)
657-) According to the narration from Aswad (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The last sentences of the adhan recited by Bilal are (Allahu akbar Allahu akbar la ilaha illallah). (Only Nasai narrated it.)
659-) According to the narration from Abu Mahzure (radiyallahu anh), the last sentence of the Adhan is (La ilaha illallah). (Only Nasai narrated it.)
660-) Amr b. Evs (radiyallahu anh) says: A person from the tribe of Sakif said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) was traveling and on a rainy night: reciting the Adhan; (Hayye alessalât, Hayye allel felâh): Keep your cargo and belongings next to you. (Bukhari, Azan: 18; Darimi: Salat: 55)
661-) After reciting the adhan on a windy and cold night, Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh) prays in places where your loads and belongings are. Because the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to announce to the muezzin on cold and windy nights, "Keep it with your cargo and belongings." (Dârimi, Salat: 55; Bukhari, Adhan: 18)
662-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) set out for Hajj. When he came to the Arafat region, he saw that a tent was prepared for him in a place called Nemire, and he camped there. When the sun shifted to the west, he had his camel named kasva prepared and walked towards the Batn-ı Nahle Valley. and he gave a speech to the people there. Then Bilal recited the call to prayer and recited the Iqamat. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) led the noon prayer, then brought the iqama again, led the afternoon prayer and did not offer any prayers between the two.) (Darimi, Menasik: 51; Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 60)
663-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When he came to Muzdalifah, he made his camel kneel down and led the people there with one adhan and two iqamats, and the evening and night prayers together, and he did not offer any prayers between the two.) Narrated by Nasai.)
664-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: Said b. We were in Muzdalifah with Jubayr. Ibn Umar had the adhan recited, brought the iqama and led us the evening prayer. Then, saying to prayer, he led the night prayer as two rak'ahs. Said b. Jubayr asked: What prayer is it? Ibn Omar said: I prayed like this in the same place with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)
665-) Said b. Jubayr (radiyallahu anh) had prayed the evening and night prayers in Muzdalifah with one iqama, and Ibn Umar reported that he had done the same. (Dârimi, Menasik: 51; Muvatta', Hajj: 65)
666-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We performed two times together in Muzdalifah together with him.) (Darimi, Menasik: 51; Muvatta', Hajj: 65)
667-) According to the narration from the father of Salim (radiy-Allâhu anh): sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he performed one iqama and two prayers together in Muzdalifah, and he did not perform any supererogatory (sunnah) prayer either before or after these prayers.) , Menasik: 51; Muvatta', Hajj: 65)
668-) Abu Said (radiyallahu anh) quotes from his father: In his war, the polytheists gave the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the Islamic army very difficult times. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the Muslims could not perform the noon, afternoon and evening prayers and the sun had set. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) ordered Bilal, and he brought the iqama, and he offered the noon prayer as it was performed at its normal time, then again he brought the iqama, again as it was performed at the normal time, and again led the afternoon prayer. (Tirmidhi, Salat: 132; Musnad: 11039)
669-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): The polytheists did not perform four consecutive prayers during the battle because they kept the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) too busy in the Battle of the Trench. He ordered Bilal at nightfall, recited the adhan, then brought iqama, noon was performed, then iqama, afternoon was performed, then iqamat was brought, evening prayer was performed, and then night prayer was performed.) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 132)
670-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The polytheists pressed us so much during the war that we could not perform the noon, afternoon, evening and night prayers on time. When the polytheists left, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said; He ordered a person to sit for the noon prayer and we prayed the noon prayer, he sat for the afternoon prayer. Then he turned around and said: There is no group that remembers Allah except you. (Tirmidhi, Salat: 132)
671-) Muawiya b. According to the narration from Hudayc (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was leading the prayer, and when he was supposed to offer one more rak'ah, he saluted. A person came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said, 'You forgot one rak'ah. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered Bilal to go to the mosque and bring iqama to Bilal, so he led a forgotten rakat. When I told this, they said to me: Do you know who that man reminded me of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)? I replied, "I'll know if I see it". After a while, that person had stopped by me, I said, "That's it." Those there were: Talha b. They replied that he is Ubeydullah. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 2; Musnad: 25993)
672-) Abdullah b. Rubaya (radiy-Allâhu anh) once heard someone chanting the adhan with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said exactly what the caller said and said: This adhan is either the adhan of a shepherd or someone who has been away from his home. They saw that it was the prayer of a sheep herder. (Only Nasai narrated it.)
674-) Ukbe b. According to the narration from Amir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: The shepherd who recites the adhan and prays on the top of the mountain is pleased with this situation and says: This is my servant! Fearing my torment, he reads the adhan and prays. I will forgive this servant and put him in my Paradise.) (Muslim, Salat: 5; Abu Dawud, Salat: 272)
675-) Rifaa b. According to the narration from Rafi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sitting in the mosque and we were around him…) (This hadith will come again in the future on various issues.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 29; Dârimi, Salat: 6 )
676-) According to the narration from Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh), I asked Ibn Umar about the adhan and he told me the following: In the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), the sentences in the adhan were repeated in pairs, while the sentences in the iqama were repeated one by one. When we heard the sentence (Kad kamet-is Salat) being said twice, we made ablution and left our homes for prayer. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 29; Dârimi, Salat: 6)
677-) Malik b. According to a narration from Huwayris (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to me and my friend next to me: When the time comes, call the adhan, then bring the iqama and let one of you become an imam.) (Bukhari, Adhan: 18; Tirmidhi , Salat: 152)
678-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When it is recited, the devil flies away with his winds so as not to hear the call to prayer. After the adhan is over, he comes back and starts giving delusions. When the iqamat starts, he flees again, when the iqamat ends, he returns again, tries to give delusions to the heart of the person, and to remind the person of things that do not come to mind; Remember this issue… put that issue in your mind… he says. He is so busy with the person in the prayer that he does not realize how much prayer he has prayed, and misses his prayer, he is surprised.) (Dârimi, Salat: 11; Muvatta', Salat: 1)
679-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If they only knew the reward of calling the adhan and performing the prayer in the first row, and if they could not find a solution other than drawing lots, they would definitely go for the way of drawing lots. they would go. Again, if people knew the value and value of each prayer at the first time, they would definitely race to reach it. Again, if people knew the reward in night and morning prayers, they would prefer to come to these two prayers, even if they crawled. (Bukhari, Adhan: 9; Dârimi, Salat: 19)
680-) Osman b. According to what was narrated from Abib As (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah! I said, appoint me an imam for my people) and he said: You are their imam, follow the weak among them and hire a muezzin who does not get paid for the call to prayer.) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 155; Abu Dawud, Salat: 40)
681-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When you hear it, repeat exactly what the muezzin said.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 36; Tirmidhi, Salat: 155).
682-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were sitting with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and Bilal got up and began to call the adhan. When he finished the adhan, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he repeats what the muezzin says knowingly and believing, he will enter Paradise. (Musnad: 38270)
683-) Mücemma b. According to the narration from Yahya al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abu Umama Sahl b. I was sitting next to Hunayf, at that moment the muezzin started the call to prayer and said (Allahu akbar) twice. He uttered takbir twice in Abu Umama. The muezzin said: En la ilaha illallah, and he repeated the same words twice. Then, when the muezzin said, Eşhedü enne Muhammeden Rasulullah), he repeated it two times and said: Muawiya b. Abi Sufyan informed me that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did this. (Bukhari, Azan: 7; Dârimi, Salat: 9)
685-) Alkame b. According to the narration from Vakkas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I was sitting next to him. When the muezzin started to call the adhan, he began to say exactly what the muezzin recited in the adhan. When the muezzin said: alessalâh), Muawiya said (La hawle velâforce illa billah). Again, when the muezzin said (Hayya allel felâh), Muawiya said: Hawle velâforce illa billah. After that, he repeated exactly what the muezzin had said, then said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say that. (Bukhari, Azan: 7; Dârimi, Salat: 9)
686-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: when you hear the adhan chanting, repeat what he said exactly and bring salawat. Whoever brings peace to me once, Allah will treat him with mercy and grace ten times, then ask Allah for the means for me, which is only required for me. That rank will be a rank in Paradise and only one of the servants of Allah will be able to attain it. I hope that person will be me too. Whoever asks for that means from Allah for me, that person is entitled to my intercession.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 36; Tirmidhi, Salat: 157)
687-) Sa'd b. According to a narration from Abi Waqqas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Someone who heard the muezzin chanting the adhan said: There is no true god but Allah, He is the only one and has no partner; I bear witness that Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) is also His slave and Messenger. I am pleased with Allah as the Lord, with Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) as the Prophet, and with Islam as the religion (if he says, that person's sins will be forgiven.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 36; Bukhari, Adhan 8)
688-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever hears the call to prayer, say: O Allah, the Lord of this complete and perfect invitation and the prayer that will sustain my religion! If he prays, "Give our Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) the highest rank and the highest degrees worthy of the praise you promised in Paradise," he will receive my intercession on the Day of Judgment.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 36; Bukhari, Adhan 8)
689-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mugaffel (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is a prayer that must be performed between the adhan and the iqama, there is a prayer that must be performed between every adhan and iqama, and it should be performed between every adhan and iqama for anyone who wishes. There is a prayer required.) (Bukhari, Azan: 14; Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 9)
690-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the muezzin called the call to prayer, people would almost race to pray between the pillars of the mosque. While they were in this situation, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) took them to them. They used to pray in this way before the evening prayer, however, the time between the adhan and the iqama was not very long at this time. (Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 9; Bukhari, Adhan: 14)
691-) Eş'aş b. Abi'sh Sha'sa (radiyallahu anh) narrates from his father that Abu Hurayra blocked the way of someone who wanted to leave the mosque after the call to prayer was recited, and he said: The man rebelled against Abu'l Kasım (Muhammad (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). ) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 150; Dârimi, Salat: 12)
692-) According to the narration from Abu'sh Sha'sa (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man came out of the mosque after the adhan was recited, and Abu Hurayra said to that person: e) rebelled.) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 150; Dârimi, Salat: 12)
693-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would pray eleven rak'ahs after the night prayer until the morning prayer, he would salute once in every two rak'ahs, and then he would make the prayers one rakat. . He would stand in the prostrations of these prayers as long as you could recite fifty verses. Then he would raise his head from prostration. When the muezzin finishes the morning prayer and sees the dawn, he performs a short two-rak'ah prayer. Then he would lie on his right side until the muezzin called him an iqama. When the muezzin came and took his residence, he went to the mosque for prayer with him. (Some narrators made some additions to this hadith.) (Bukhari, Witr: 1; Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 17)
694-) Kurayb, the freedman of Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), narrates: I asked Ibn Abbas how much and how the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed at night. He also told us that he prayed eleven rak'ahs at night, then he fell into a deep sleep and even snored. When Bilal came and said: "O Messenger of Allah, it's time." (Bukhari, Witr: 1; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 17)
695-) Abdullah b. Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrates from his father and says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When the time comes or when the iqama is brought, do not get up for prayer until you see me go to the mosque. (Muslim, Masajid: 52; Bukhari, Friday: 17)
696-) Amr b. According to the narration from Abese (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If he builds a mosque in which the name of Allah will be remembered, Allah will build a house for him in Paradise.) (Bukhari, Salat: 65; Musnad: 18620)
697-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Competing with each other in building a mosque and boasting and boasting are among the signs of Doomsday.) (Darimi, Salat: 123; Ibn Majah, Mesacid: 2)
698-) According to the narration from Ibrahim (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was reading the Qur'an to my father on a journey, when he heard the verse of prostration, my father immediately fell into prostration. I said: Daddy, do you prostrate on the road too? He said: I heard from Abu Dharr and he was saying: I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) which mosque was built first. He said, "The Masjid Haram in Mecca is the Kaaba itself." (Then which one?) I said. (Masjid Aqsa) commanded. When I asked how much time passed between the construction of the two (Forty years), he said. He said, "The earth is a mosque for you. Pray wherever the time for prayer comes." (Ibn Majah, Masajid: 7; Muslim, Masajid: 1)
699-) According to what was narrated from Maymuna (radiy-Allâhu anha), one of the wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about the prayer performed in his Masjid in Medina: I heard him say that prayer is a thousand times more virtuous than the prayer performed in other mosques.) (Muslim, Hajj: 93; Musnad: 25596)
700-) Sâlim (radiy-Allâhu anh), quoting from his father, says: Zeyd, Bilal and Osman b. Abi Talha; They entered the Kaaba and closed the door. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) opened the door, I was the first to enter. I met Bilal and asked him, "Did he pray in the Kaaba?" He replied: He prayed between these two Yemeni columns or the two columns on the right. (Muvatta', Hajj: 63; Dârimi, Salat: 43)
701-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: When his son Suleiman Bayti built Makdis, he asked Allah for three things; 1- He wanted to be given the ability to make correct and accurate judgments, which was given to him. 2- He wanted a sultanate that would not be granted to anyone after him, and this was given to him. 3- After completing the construction of the mosque, he had prayed that a person who came to this mosque only to pray, from his mother, would be removed from there as if he had just been born. (Musnad: 6357)
702-) Ebû Salama b. Abdurrahman and Abu Abdullah al-Agar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) narrate: A prayer performed in the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) mosque; It is one times better than the prayers performed in other mosques except Masjid Haram. Because the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) is the last Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and his mosque is the last of the mosques. Abu Salama and Abu Abdullah say: We did not doubt that Abu Hurayra quoted these words from the words of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). We were also prohibited from determining whether this hadith narrated by Abu Huraira was true. Finally, when Abu Hurayra passed away, we remembered this hadith and we started to discuss whether Abu Hurayra heard this hadith from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). While we argue with each other like this; Abdullah b. Abraham b. We sat next to Kariz and conveyed this matter to him. Abdullah b. Ibrahim said to us: I heard from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) and I bear witness that: According to what I heard from Abu Hurayra, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I am the last of the Prophets, and my Masjid is the last of the Masjids.) (Muslim, Hajj: 94; Ibn Majah, Iqamatu's Salat: 195)
703-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Zayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Between my house and my pulpit; It is a garden from the gardens of Paradise.) (Bukhari, Fadli Salati Masjid Mecca: 5; Muslim, Hajj: 92)
704-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “He ascends to Paradise through the feet of my pulpit.” (Musnad: 25721)
705-) Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), quoting from his father, says: Two people were arguing about the mosque whose foundations were laid for piety. One said that this is Quba Masjid, while the other claimed that it was Masjid-Nabawi. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: The mosque is this mosque of mine. (Muslim, Hajj: 96; Tirmidhi, Salat: 255)
706-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Omar (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to come to the Quba mosque to pray sometimes on foot and sometimes on horseback. (Muslim, Hajj: 97; Bukhari, Fad-i Salati Masjid Mecca and Medina: 2)
707-) Ebû Umâme Sahl b. Hunayf (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrates: According to what my father told me, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he leaves his house and comes to the Quba mosque and prays, he will receive a reward equal to the reward of Umrah.) (Muslim, Hajj: 97; Bukhari, Fadli Salati) Masjid Mecca and Medina: 2)
708-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: One can travel to three mosques: 1- Masjid in Mecca (Kaaba) 2- My Masjid in Medina 3 -Masjid Aksa.) (Bukhari, Fadli Salati Masjid Mecca and Medina: 2; Dârimi, Salat: 228)
709-) Talk b. Ali (radiyallahu anh) narrates: We came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) as a delegation and accepted his political authority and prayed with him. And we informed him that there is a synagogue in our country. We asked him to give us the rest of the ablution water as a gift. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had water brought, performed ablution, rinsed the water and poured it into a bowl. By ordering us to get the water, he said: go out, demolish your synagogue when you reach your hometown, sprinkle this water instead and use it as a mosque). We said: Our homeland is far away, the temperatures are high, this water may evaporate and disappear. Thereupon, he said: Add water on top of the water, the water you add will not spoil its properties). We left, we came to our hometown. We demolished the synagogue and sprinkled that water on that place and used it as a mosque, we recited the adhan there. The Priest of that Synagogue was from the Thai tribe; When he heard the adhan we recited, he said: It is a true invitation.) (Later) He headed towards the slopes of the valley. We did not see him again. (Only Nasai narrated it.)
710-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) migrated from Mecca to Medina, Amr b. He stayed in Avfoğulları district and stayed there for fourteen days. Then Neccar sent word to a group of his sons, and they came with their swords. I can still see them leaving the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) on his camel, in the circles of Abu Bakr, with the Banu Neccar delegation. Finally, he reached the place where Abu Ayyub's garden was. Until that day, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray wherever he was when the time for prayer came. Even in sheep pens. Then he ordered the construction of a mosque. He sent me news to a community from Neccar, when they came; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Sons of Neccar, tell me the value of your garden and I will pay for it. They said: We do not ask for it, but we give it for the sake of Allah). says: In that garden, there were the graves of the polytheists, buildings in ruins, and date palms. Upon the order of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), the graves of the polytheists were cleared and date trees were cut down. The ruined buildings were straightened, and the cut date trees were lined up in rows on the qibla side of the mosque. The right and left of the place that will be the door were made of stone. Then the rock and stone fragments began to be moved. While doing this, they were saying with the participation of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): There is no good except the good in the Hereafter. Help Ansar and Muhajirs for this good work.) (Bukhari, Salat: 48; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 12)
711-) According to the narration from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) and Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), they say: When he fell ill with death, he used to cover his face, and when he got a fever, he would pull it off. While he was in this situation, he said: Curse the Jews and Christians because they took the graves of their prophets as mosques.) (Darimi, Salat: 120; Muslim, Masjid: 3)
712-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha); Umm Salama and Umm Habiba said that they saw a church in Abyssinia with various paintings inside. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When a good person living among them dies, they build a mosque over his grave and paint such pictures inside. They are the worst of creatures on the Day of Judgment.) (Darimi, Salat: 120; Muslim, Masajid: 3)
713-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When a person leaves his house with the intention of going to the mosque, a reward is written for him for every step he takes and a sin is erased.) (Abu Dawud, Salat) : 49; Ibn Majah, Masjid: 15)
714-) Sâlim (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated from his father: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When his wife wants to go to the mosque, let her not prevent her.) (Abu Dawud, Salat: 53; Dârimi, Salat: 57)
715-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If he ate this vegetable -he only used garlic on the first day, then added onions and leeks-he should not approach our mosques. Because; Angels are disturbed by the things that make people uncomfortable.) (Muslim, Masacid: 17; Tirmidhi, Et'ime: 13)
716-) Ma'dan b. According to the narration from Abi Talha (radiyallahu anh), Umar b. Khattab said: people! You eat bad-smelling things like onions and garlic, I witnessed that; If the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) felt their scent on someone, he would take him out of the mosque and send him to Baki. For this reason, whoever wants to eat from these two things, you can cook it and eat it like that.) (Muslim, Mesacid: 17; Tirmidhi, Et'ime: 13)
717-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted to i'tikaf, he would perform the morning prayer and enter the place he entered. Once, in the last ten days of Ramadan, he wanted to do Itikaf and ordered that a tent was set up for him in the mosque. He ordered one of his wives, Hafsa, to set up a tent for him. When he saw Hafsa's tent, he ordered a tent to be set up in Zaynab, and a tent was set up for him. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw all these, he said: Does what you do have anything to do with worship and servitude?) He did not enter Itikaf in Ramadan that year (being angry with these actions) and entered Itikaf on the tenth day of Shawwal. (Muslim, Masajid: 9; Bukhari, Salat: 77)
718-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Sa'd was wounded by an arrow shot by a Quraysh in the Battle of the Trench; The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had a tent set up in the mosque so that he could visit frequently. (Bukhari, Salat: 77; Muslim, Masajid: 9)
719-) Amr b. Sulaym al-Zureki (radiy-Allâhu anh) said he heard the following from Abu Qatada: We were sitting, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came up to us with Abu'l As b. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was performing the prayer of Rabi's daughter, Umama -Umama's mother was Zaynab, the daughter of the Messenger of Allah- with the child on her shoulder. When he went to ruku', he put the child on the ground, picked it up again when he got up, and thus finished his prayer. (Muslim, Mesacid: 9; Bukhari, Salat: 106)
720-) Said b. Abi Said (radiyallahu anh) said that he heard the following from Abu Hurayra: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent a detachment to the side of Najd. This detachment belonged to Beni Hanife; Sumama b. They had taken a man named Üsal as a prisoner. This person was tied to one of the pillars of the mosque. This hadith is briefly mentioned. (Bukhari, Salat: 76; Muslim, Jihad and Siyer: 19)
721-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): during the farewell pilgrimage, he circumambulated the Kaaba on his camel; Hacer'ül Esvedi was also invading with her walking stick.) (Bukhari, Salat: 76; Tirmidhi, Hajj: 40)
722-) Amr b. According to what Shuayb (radiyallahu anh) reported from his father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade sitting in the mosques by making rings on Friday and shopping in the mosques. (Tirmidhi, Salat: 240; Bukhari, Salat: 70)
723-) Again Amr b. Şuayb (radiy-Allâhu anh) quotes from his father and grandfather; (The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) informed us that he forbade reciting poetry in mosques.) (Bukhari, Salat: 68; Ibn Mace, Mesacid: 5)
724-) Said b. According to the narration from Müseyyeb (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Once, Umar, Hassan b. He had stopped by Sabit while he was singing poetry in the mosque, but he did not like this and glared at him. Thereupon, Hassan b. Fixed: Omar said, "I used to sing poetry when there was a better person, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in this mosque." He turned to Abu Hurayra and said: Abu Hurayra! Didn't you hear that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Come on, answer the polytheists on my behalf," and he prayed: "Support him with the Holy Spirit?" Abu Hurayra replied, "It is a witness that yes, it happened." (Ibn Majah, Masajid: 5; Bukhari, Salat: 68)
725-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A man came and started shouting to find something he had lost in the mosque. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Dârimi, Salat: 118; Bukhari, Salat: 66)
726-) According to the narration from Sufyan (radiyallahu anh), he said: I said, "Did you hear Jabir say? A man had entered the mosque with arrows next to him, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to him: Hold the sharp parts with your hand. Amr said: (Dârimi, Salat: 119; Bukhari, Salat: 69)
727-) According to what is reported from Aswad (radiyallahu anh), he said: and Alkame, Abdullah b. We arrived at Mas'ud. He said to us: Did you do it?) We said no. He said (Get up and pray). We accepted him as imam and stood behind him. He took one of us to his right side and the other to his left and performed prayers without adhan and iqamah. When he came to ruku', he would interlock his fingers and put them between two knees and say: I saw sallallahu alaihi wa sallam doing this.) (Muslim, Masacid: 5; Abu Dawud, Salat: 150)
729-) Abbad b. Tamim (radiyallahu anh) quotes his uncle as saying: My uncle said that he saw the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) lying on his back in the mosque with one foot on the other. (Bukhari, Salat: 85; Muslim, Masajid: 18)
730-) According to the narration from Ibn Omar (radiy-Allâhu anh), (When he was young and single in the time of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he slept in the Medina mosque.) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 239; Dârimi, Salat: 117).
731-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Spitting is a sin, and its expiation is to destroy it.) (Muslim, Masacid: 13; Bukhari, Salat: 72)
732-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a phlegm on the qibla wall of the mosque, destroyed it and turned to the people and said: Do not spit in the direction of the qibla while praying, because Allah; It is in front of the person praying.) (Muslim, Masajid: 13; Muwatta', Qibla: 3)
733-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a sputum with phlegm on the qibla wall of the Masjid and scraped it off with a pebble. and he said: Let him not spit in front of him and on his right. If he needs to spit, let him spit on his left or under his left foot.) (Muslim, Masajid: 13; Ibn Majah, Salat: 48)
734-) Tarik b. According to the narration from Abdullah al-Muharibi (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do not spit in front of you or to your right while performing it. If there is no one, spit on the back and left side. If there are others, he said to do this and spit under his feet and destroyed it with his foot.) (Muslim, Mesacid: 13; Bukhari, Salat: 38)
735-) Ebû'l Ala b. Shihhir (radiy-Allâhu anh) relates the following from his father: I saw sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam spit and destroy it with his left foot.) (Muslim, Mesacid: 13; Bukhari, Salat: 38)
736-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a spit on the qibla wall of the Masjid and became so angry that his face turned red. A woman from the Ansar got up and scraped the spittle and infused it with a nice fragrance. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "How nice it is." (Muslim, Masajid: 13; Ibn Majah, Masajid: 10)
737-) Abdulmalik b. According to the narration from Said (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard Abu Humayd and Abu Usayd say the following. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: While entering the mosque, one of you should pray: Open the doors of mercy for me.
738-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When he enters the mosque, let him pray two rak'ahs before sitting.) (Tirmidhi, Salat: 235; Darimi, Salat: 114)
739-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiyallahu anh), he said: Ka'b b. While describing Malik's failure to participate in the Tabuk expedition, I heard him say: When he returned from a war, he would first enter the mosque and pray two rak'ahs and then sit down to listen to people's troubles. When he did the same and sat down: Those who did not participate in the Tabuk expedition apologized and began to swear. They were more than eighty. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) accepted their apologies and allegiances, asked forgiveness for them, and referred their inner faces to Allah. At that time I came and greeted him. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) smiled at me with anger and said: I also came and sat in front of him, and he said to me: What is the reason that kept me from participating in the war? Didn't you pledge allegiance in Aqaba?) I said: Allah's Apostle! By Allah, if I sit next to anyone other than you in the world, I guess that I will be saved from his wrath by apologizing. Because I have a very strong persuasion ability. But I swear to Allah; I thoroughly understood this; If I lie today so that you may forgive me, God will increase your anger against me by informing you that I have lied. If I tell you the truth, you will still be angry with me, but I hope that Allah will forgive me by telling the truth. By Allah, I have never been as strong and wealthy as I was in the days when I did not join the war with you. Get up and; Wait until Allah makes a decision about you.) I waited for a while too. This hadith is longer than this one. (Bukhari, Jihad and Siyer: 197; Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 12)
740-) Abu Said b. According to the narration from Mualla (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: In the time of sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), we used to stop by the mosque and pray there on our way to the bazaar and market.) (Only Nasai narrated.)
741-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: As long as one of you stands in the place where he is praying without breaking his wudu, the angels will say to him: O Allah! They pray to forgive him and have mercy on him.) (Dârimi, Salat: 122; İbn Mâce, Mesacid: 19)
742-) Ayyaş b. Ukbe, Yahya b. Quoting Maymun, he says: Sehil b. Saidi, he said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) that he said: Whoever waits for the time of prayer will be rewarded as if he were praying.) (Darimi, Salat: 122; Ibn Mâce, Masacid: 19)
743-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mugaffel (radiy-Allâhu anh): sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade praying in camel pens.) (Ibn Mace, Mesacid: 12; Tirmidhi, Salat: 259)
744-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Every part of it has been made a place of prayer for me and it is clean. Whoever from my ummah reaches the prayer time, let him pray right there.) (Bukhari, Tayammum: 1; Dârimi, Salat: 111)
745-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), (Umm Sulaym asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to come to her house and pray there. She said that she would take the place where the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to Umm Sulaym’s house. Umm Sulaym immediately brought a straw mat and sprinkled water on her to soften her. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed on that mat, and they prayed with him.) (Dârimi, Salat: 101; Bukhari, Salat: 20)
746-) According to the narration from Maymune (radiy-Allâhu anha): sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray on a kind of exhibition called Khumrah.) (Muslim, Mesacid: 48; Dârimi, Salat: 101)
747-) Abu Hazım b. According to the narration from Dinar (radiyallahu anh), some people, Sahl b. They came to Sa'd es Saidi and asked him which tree the pulpit in Medina Masjid was made of. I even know the day when the pulpit was first put in its place, and the first day when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sat. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) sent a message to a woman -He says that Ravi Sahl said that woman's name, but he did not mention it in this hadith - (Order your slave, who is a carpenter, to build a place that I can climb on when I talk to people.) Thereupon, the woman told her slave; He ordered the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to do what he wanted. The slave did what was requested from the tree called Tafra in the forest and brought it. The woman took it and sent it to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). Upon the order of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him), this pulpit was placed here. Then I saw the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) standing on the pulpit and praying. He uttered takbir and stood for prayer, again bowed down on the pulpit, then fell back down and prostrated on the ground again. When he finished his prayer, he turned to the people and said: People: I did this so that you would see and know that I was praying and you would follow Me.) (Abu Dawud , Salat: 222; Bukhari, Salat: 64)
748-) According to the narration from Ibn Omar (radiyallahu anh), he said: I saw sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performing voluntary prayers on his donkey towards Khaybar.) (Darimi, Salat: 181; Muslim, Masacid: 49)
749-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I saw him performing voluntary prayers on a camel he was riding while he was walking towards Khaybar. However, the qibla was behind the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). (Darimi, Salat: 181; Abu Dawud, Salat: 277)
