1-) Abdullah Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported to us that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Prayer without wudu is not accepted. Sadaqah is not accepted from any property obtained by stealing from booty.” (Muslim, Tahara: 2; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 2.) the phrase "illa bituhurin" is used. He says that this is the most authentic and hasan of the hadiths on this subject. In this respect; Hadith was also narrated from Abu'l Melih, his father, Abu Huraira and Anas. Abu'l Melih Ibn Usama's name is Amir, he is also called Zayd bin Ûsama ibn Umayr al-Huzeli.
1-) A slave, who both fulfills his servitude to Allah and fulfills his master's right, will be rewarded twice.
1-) Goods for which zakat is not given,
1-) Mildness
1-) A slave who fulfills the rights of Allah and the rights of his master,
1-) There is no deity or authority other than Allah,
1-) The sun rising from the west,
2-) As reported by Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When a Muslim or a believer washes his face while making wudu, every sin he has committed with his eyes is washed away with the last drop of wudu water or water. . When he washes his hands, every sin he committed with his hands is washed away with the last drop of water, thus he is cleansed of his sins.” (Muslim, Tahara: 11; Muwatta, Tahara: 6) This is a sound and hasan hadith. Malik's; It is a hadith he narrated from Suhayl, his father and Abu Huraira. The name of this person, who is called Abu Salih es Sem'an and is the father of Abu Salih Suheyl, is Zekvan. It has also been said that the name of Abu Huraira was Abdushams or Abdullah ibn Amr, which is true. Again, Osman b. Affan, Sevban, Sunabihi, Amr b. Abese, Salman and Abdullah b. There is also a narration from Amr. Narrated by Abu Bakr, Sunabihi had no hearing from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Sunabihi, who was imprinted as Abu Abdurrahman, set out to see the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), but the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) died while he was on his way. El A'ser al Ahmesi is also called "es Sunabihi". The famous hadith is as follows: “I will boast of your multitude against other nations. Do not fight each other after me.”
2-) If a person who has a beautiful concubine trains her well, sets her free, then marries her, and does this for the sake of Allah's approval, he will receive a double reward.
2-) To betray the booty,
2-) The imam with whom the congregation is pleased,
2-) To act in a measured way by thinking.” (Ibn Majah: Zuhd: 72) This hadith is hasan sahih. A hadith has also been narrated from Eşec el Usari.
2-) That I am the Messenger of Allah and that He sent me with the truth,
2-) The emergence of Gog and Magog,
3-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The key to prayer is cleanliness, and what makes things forbidden in prayer unlawful is to utter takbir. What makes those things halal is to greet them.” (Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 3; Dârimî, Tahara: 22) This hadith is the most authentic and most beautiful of those reported on this subject. Abdullah b. Muhammed b. Mind; He is one of the right and honest people. But he has been criticized for his memory. Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail, he used to say: Ahmad b. Hanbal, Ishaq b. Ibrahim and Humaydi would accept the hadith of this person as evidence. Mohammed; He used to say that this person was reliable regarding the hadith. A hadith has also been narrated from Jabir and Abu Said on this subject.
3-) A person who believes in the previous book and then believes in the other Book that reaches him will be given a double reward. (Muslim, Nikah: 14; Nesai, Nikah: 65)
3-) Staying away from debt.” (Ibn Mâce, Sadaka: 12; Dârimî, Magic: 52) in a different narration, Abu Avane says "arrogance" instead of "goods for which zakat is not given" and does not mention "ma'dan" in the hadith. Said's narration is more authentic.
3-) The muezzin, who calls people to prayer every day and night.” (Musnad: 4568) This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only as the narration of Sûfyan es Sevrî from Abu'l Yakzan and Vekî. The name of Abu'l Yakzan was Osman b. Kays. He is called Ibn Umayr, which is the famous one.
3-) He will believe in death and the resurrection after death,
3-) The appearance of Dabba, which is mentioned in the 82nd verse of the chapter of an-Naml,
4-) Jabir b. According to what was narrated from Abdillah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The key to Paradise is prayer, and the key to prayer is ablution." (Musnad: 14135)
4-) He will definitely believe in destiny.” (Ibn Majah, introduction: 10)
4-) Incident of sinking, depressions, one in the east, one in the west, and the other in the Arabian peninsula,
5-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) wanted to go to the toilet, he would say: "O Allah, I seek refuge in You from all male and female devils and from all filth." (Bukhari, Wudu': 9; Muslim, Hayz: 32) says: Sometimes the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite this prayer without saying "Allahumma" at the beginning. In this regard, Ali Zayd b. There are also narrations from Arkam, Jabir and Ibn Mas'ud. The hadith of Anas is the most authentic and beautiful of the narrations on this subject. Zayd b. There is sickness in the sanad part of the hadith of Arkam. Hisham ed Destevaî and Said b. The glitch in the sened part of the hadith narrated by Abi Arube from Qatada; It has been explained that Qatada may have narrated it in two ways.
5-) A fire that will come out of Eden that will always be with people, come and go with them and rest with them. (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 29)
6-) Enes b. According to what is reported from Malik (radiyallahu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would enter the toilet, he would say: "O Allah, I seek refuge in You from all male and female devils and from all filth." (Bukhari, Voodoo': 9; Muslim, Hayz: 32) This hadith is hasan authentic.
7-) According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came out of the toilet, he would say: “Forgive me, O Lord, by your grace.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 17; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 10) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith is just; Israel, Yusuf b. We know it as it came from Ebi Bürde. We know no other than this hadith of Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) on this subject.
8-) According to the narration from Abu Ayyub al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When you enter the toilet, do not face the qibla and do not turn your back, turn to the east or west." Abu Ayyub, who narrated the hadith, says: When we came to Damascus, we saw that the toilets were facing the qibla. (Bukhari, Voodoo': 11; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 17) Abdullah b. Haris b. They are also called Cez'ez Zubeydî and Ma'kıl ibn ebî Heysem, Ma'kıl ibn ebî M'akıl. Ebû Umâme, Ebû Hüreyre and Sahl b. The hadith was narrated from Hunayf. This hadith of Abu Ayyub is the most reliable and beautiful hadith in this regard. The name of Abu Ayyub, Khalid b. It is Zayd. Zuhri's name is Muhammed b. Muslim b. Ubeydullah b. Shihâb ez-Zuhri and his patronymic is Abu Bakr. Abu'l Walid al-Makki says: Imam-i Shafii says the following about this hadith: This prohibition is only in the countryside and in open places . Ishaq b. Abraham said the same. b. Hanbal says: This license of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) is related to turning his back towards the qibla. One should not stand facing the qibla, neither in open nor closed places.
9-) Jabir b. Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade facing the qibla while using the toilet. However, a year before his death, I saw him while he was toileting towards the qibla.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 5; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 18) on the subject; Ebû Katade Âisha and Ammar b. A hadith was also narrated from Yasir. He said that the hadith of Jabir on this subject is hasan garib.
10-) Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh): “He saw that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) turned to the qibla and met his toilet needs.” Qutayba narrated the hadith from Ibn Lehia to us in this way. The hadith number 9 of Jabir is more authentic in this regard. Some hadith scholars criticized Ibn Lehia in terms of memory.
11-) Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh) said: "One day, I was on the roof of Hafsa's (radiyallahu anha) house, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked me to use the toilet with his face towards Damascus and his back towards the Ka'ba. was fixing it.” (Bukhari, Vudu': 14; Nesai, Tahara: 22) This hadith is hasan authentic.
12-) According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “Who told you; If he says that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made small ablution while standing, do not believe it. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) would not perform his small ablution before he collapsed." (Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 14; Nesai, Tahara: 25.) On the subject, Ömer, Büreyde and Abdurrahman b. The hadith was narrated from Hasene. He says, "The hadith of Aisha is the most beautiful and authentic hadith on this subject." The hadith is only Abdulkarim b. It came from Eb'il Muharik's narration from Nafi, Ibn Umar and Umar, and it is as follows: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw me while I was standing. After that, I did not break an ablution while standing.” This hadith was only reported by Abdulkarim b. Abi Muharik attributed it to Omar, whose hadiths were seen as weak by the hadith scholars. Eyyub es Sahtiyani considered this person weak and said some words about him. According to what Nafi narrated from Ibn Umar; Omar (radiyallahu anh): "I have not broken my ablution since I became a Muslim". This hadith is more authentic than the hadith of Abdul Karim. The hadith of Burayda on this subject is not very strong. The Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) prohibition to break the ablution while standing is not for the sake of haram, but for a rule of good manners. According to the narration from Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud, he said: "One of the acts contrary to good manners is to make ablution while standing."
13-) According to what is reported from Huzeyfe (radiy-Allâhu anh); “The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) came to a people's garbage dump and made small ablution while standing there. I brought him ablution water and when I was leaving, he called me and I approached him up to his heels. Then he made wudu and wiped over his melons.” (Nesai, Tahara: 24; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 13) I heard from Carûd, he said: I heard Veki narrate this hadith from A'meş and say: This hadith; “It is the most authentic hadith about wiping from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh).” Ebû Ammar Hüseyin b. I heard from Hureys he was saying: He also said I heard from Vaki, he told about the same thing. In this way, Mansur, Ubeyde ed Dabbi narrated from Abu Vail, Huzeyfe, similar to the narration of A'mesh. Hammad b. Ebi Suleyman and Asim b. Behdele, from Ebû Vâil, Muğîre b. It was narrated from our Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) through Shu'ba that Abu Vail's narration from Huzayfa is more authentic. Some of the people allowed to perform ablution while standing. Abiyde b. The narration of Ibrahim Nehai from Amr es Salmani from Abiyde is as follows. “ I became a Muslim two years before the death of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) . Ibrahim's friend Ubeyde ed Dabbi, "Ubeyde b. It is "Muattip".
14-) Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh) says: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) needed to use the toilet, he would not collect his clothes before squatting.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 6; Dârimî, Tahara: 7) Muhammed b. Rabia also narrated it from Anas through A'mesh. Again, Vekî and Abu Yahya al-Himmani narrated from Ibn Umar through A'mash: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) needed to use the toilet, he would not collect his clothes before squatting." it is mursal in two hadiths because it is said that A'mesh heard nothing from either Enes or the other Companions. It is recalled that A'mesh saw Enes and said something about prayer by saying "I saw him praying". A'meş's name: Süleyman b. Mihran is Abu Muhammad al-Kahili, and he is the freedman of the Kahilis. A'mesh says: "My father was brought from the enemy lands at a young age, and Masruk made him his heir."
14-) It is said that the heads of two great states of centuries ago; At that time, Iran was the most super power and had a ruler called Kisra at the head, and the Greek rulers, who were also a super state, were called Kaiser. That day, both superpowers were defeated and their treasures were spent on the armies of Islam… This hadith is hasan.
15-) Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated from his father: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade a person to wash his hands with his right hand.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 18; Dârimî, Tahara: 13) on the subject; Aisha, Salman, Abu Huraira and Sehl b. Hadith was also narrated from Hunayf. This hadith is hasan authentic. Name of Abu Qatade al-Ansari: Hâris b. He is Rabi. The majority of scholars act according to this hadith. So cleaning with the right hand is not welcome.
16-) Abdurrahman b. Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anh) relates: “It was said to Salman that your Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) taught you everything, even breaking wudu.” He said, “Yes,” and saved us from turning towards the qibla while breaking wudu, big and small. He also forbade us to take a spit with hands, to do it with less than three stones, and to take a spit with bone and dung." (Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 16; Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 21) Aisha, Huzeyme b. Sabit, Câbir, Hallâd b. A hadith was also narrated from as-Saib and his father. Salman's hadith on this subject is hasan sahih. This is the opinion of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and the scholars who came after him. That is, in the absence of water, cleaning with stones is sufficient so that no traces of urine and feces are left. Such are the views of Sevri, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq.
17-) According to the narration from Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went out for the toilet and said to find me three stones. I brought two stones and a dung, he took the two stones and throwing the dung, this is dirt” he said. (Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 16; Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 21) Kays b. Private Rabi' narrated this hadith from Abu Ishaq Abu Ubayda and Abdullah ibn Mas'ud as the hadith of Israel. Ma'mer; Ammar b. Zureyk, Abu Ishaq, Alkame and Abdullah b. He narrated from Mas'ud. Zuhayr; From Abu Ishaq, Abdurrahman b. From Aswad, who was also his father Aswad b. Yazid, again, Abdullah b. They narrated it through Mas'ud. Zechariah b. Ebi Zaide, from Abu Ishaq, Abdurrahman b. Yazid, Evsed b. Yazid and Abdullah b. They narrated from Mas'ud. There is error and confusion in this hadith. Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. Cafer, from Shu'ba He was also Amr b. Murra says: I asked Abu Ubayda. Did you hear anything from Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud? He said no. Abdullah b. I asked Abdurrahman, which of the narrations from Abu Ishaq is more authentic? He didn't say anything. I asked Bukhari and he didn't say anything, I guess Zuhayr's name is Abu Ishaq, Abdurrahman b. Aswad, from his father and Abdullah b. He found the narration from Mas'ud more appropriate and included it in the book of Sahih Bukhari. In my opinion, the most accurate narration on this subject is; It is the narration of Israel and Qays from Abu Ishaq, Ubayda and Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud. Because Israel knows the hadith of Abu Ishaq better. Ebû Musa, Muhammed b. I heard from Müsenna, he was saying: Abdurrahman b. I heard from the Mahdi, he said: "Whatever I missed from Abu Ishaq's narration from Sufyan al-Thawri, it is because I know that I will learn from Israel. Because he knew this job well. Zuhayr's narration from Abu Ishaq was not very sound and it was in the last days of his life that he heard it from him. Ahmed b. I heard from Hasan et Tirmidhi, Ahmed b. He narrated that Hanbal said: “If you have heard a hadith from Zaide and Zuhayr, don't worry if you haven't heard it from others, except for the hadith they quoted from Abu Ishaq.” The name of Abu Ishaq: Amr b. Abdillah es Sabi al Hamadani. Abu Ubayda, son of Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud, did not hear hadiths from his father. He is known with this tag, his name is not known.
18-) Abdullah b. According to what is reported from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Do not be clean with dung and bone, because it is the food of your jinn brothers.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 20; Nesai, Tahara: 36) hadiths were narrated from Abu Huraira, Salman, Jabir and Ibn Omar. This hadith is related to Ismail b. Ibrahim and others Davud b. Abi Hind, Sha'bi, Alkame and Abdullah b. They quoted Mas'ud as follows: "Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on the night of the jinn..." Sha'bi says about this long hadith: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Tazek and do not be cleansed with bones, for they are the provisions of your jinn brothers.” Ismail's narration on this issue is as if Hafs b. It seems more authentic than the narration of Gıyas. The scholars act according to this hadith. There are also narrations on this subject from Jabir and Ibn Umar.
19-) According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “Tell your husbands to be cleansed with water. I am ashamed to tell them about this. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was cleaned with water.” (Muslim, Tahara: 21; Nesai, Tahara: 41) on the subject; Jarir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdillah al Beceli, Anas and Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars act upon this hadith. Although cleaning with stones is sufficient, cleaning with water is tolerated and preferred. Sufyan as-Sevri, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmet ibn Hanbal and Ishaq are also of this opinion.
20-) Muğîre b. Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh) narrated: "I was on a journey with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). (Nesai, Tahara: 16; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 1) On the subject, Abdurrahman b. Ebî Kurad, Ebû Katade, Câbir, Yahya b. Ubayd, from his father, Abu Musa, Ibn Abbas, Bilal b. It is also narrated from al-Harith. He said that this hadith is hasan authentic. It was also narrated from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "He would look for a suitable place to do his small ablution so that he would not jump on himself." Salama's name: Abdullah b. Abdurrahman b. Awf al-Zuhri.
21-) Abdullah b. According to Mugaffel (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do not urinate in the place where you are washing, this is the reason for most doubts and delusions." (Nesai, Tahara: 32; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 12) on the subject; There is also a narration from one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). This hadith is strange. As Merfu, only Eş'as b. We know from Abdullah's narration. Many of the owners did not tolerate urinating instead of washing. They said that many delusions and doubts about cleaning stemmed from this work. Some scholars have allowed it. Ibn Sirin is one of them. To herself; When it was said that most of the delusions and doubts were caused by urinating instead of washing, he said, "My Lord is Allah, He has no partner," as if admitting the strangeness of this matter. Mubarak says: If water flows in the bathing place, urination can be done. This statement of Ibn Mubarak Ahmad b. From Abde al Âmulî, İbn Hıbban and Ahmed b. Hanbal narrated.
22-) According to what is reported from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If it were not for my ummah, I would order them to use a miswak for every prayer.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 25; Muslim, Tahara: 15) This hadith is Zayd b. Halid, Ebû Saleme, Muhammed b. Ibrahim, Muhammed b. It was narrated through Ishaq. Abu Salama, Abu Huraira and Zayd b. Khalid's narration from the two of them is more authentic for me. This hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira in other ways. In many ways, his narration made this hadith authentic. Imam-i Bukhari; Abu Salama, Zayd b. He considers his narration from Khalid more authentic. In this regard, Abu Bakr, Ali, Aisha, Ibn Abbas, Huzeyfe, Zayd b. Halid, Enes, Abdullah b. Amr, Ibn Omar, Umm Habibe, Abu Umama, Abu Ayyub, Temam, Ibn Abbas, Abdullah b. It is also narrated from Hanzale, Umm Salama, Wasile and Abu Musa.
23-) Zayd b. Khalid al-Juhani (radiyallahu anh) reported that I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "If I were not afraid that it would cause difficulties for my ummah, I would order them to use the miswak before starting every prayer, and delay the night prayer until one third of the night." (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 25) His narrator, Abu Salama, said: Zayd b. Khalid would join the prayer by putting the miswak in the ears of the scribes as they put pens. Before starting the prayer, he would use his miswak, then use the miswak instead and start his prayer. He says this hadith is hasan sahih.
24-) According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you wakes up from his sleep at night, he should not put his hand in a water bowl without washing it two or three times, because he does not know where his hand has spent the night.” (Nesai, Gusul: 29; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 49) hadiths were also reported from Ibn Omar, Jabir and Aisha. He says this hadith is hasan sahih. I like that every person who wakes up should not dip their hands in the ablution bowl without washing their hands. I do not tolerate anyone dipping their hand without washing it. If there is no impurity in your hand, the water will not spoil. b. Hanbel: When he wakes up from his night's sleep, if he dips his hand in the ablution bowl before washing it, I like that water spilled. A person who wakes up from his sleep at night or during the day should not dip his hand in the ablution bowl without washing his hands.
25-) Ebû Sûfyan b. Huveytib (radiy-Allâhu anh) told us from his grandmother, from his father, that he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: “There is no ablution for anyone who does not say basmala at the beginning of ablution.” (Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 29; Nesâî, Tahara: 41) on the subject Âisha, Ebû Said, Ebû Hüreyre, Sehl b. Hadith was also narrated from Sa'd and Anas. and Ahmad b. Hanbal: They say that we do not know of a more authentic hadith on this subject. If the one who makes ablution leaves the basmala intentionally, he repeats his wudu, forgets it and leaves it by going to ta'wil, he says, his wudu is permissible. b. Ismail: Rebah b. The hadith of Abdurrahman is the best of the hadiths on this subject. Rebah b. Abdurrahman, his grandmother's father's name was Said b. Zayd b. Amr b. Nufeyl. The name of Abu Sifal al Murri is Sümame b. Husayn. Rabah b. Abdurrahman, Abu Bakr b. Huveytib. Some, attributing it to his grandfather, Abu Bakr b. They narrated it as Huveytib.
26-) Said b. Zayd (radiyallahu anh) narrated a similar hadith from his father and he from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). (Ibn Majah, Tahara; 41)
27-) Salama b. According to what is reported from Qays (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When you make ablution, clean your nose with water. If you cannot find water after performing ablution, if you are going to be cleaned with stones, make the number of stones only.” (Bukhari, Voodoo: 26; Nesâî, Tahara: 72) Osman, Lakît b. Sabire, Ibn Abbas, Mikdam b. Ma'dikerib, Vâil b. Hadith was also narrated from Hujr and Abu Huraira. Salama b. The hadith of Qays is hasan authentic. The scholars differed about giving water to the mouth and nose. Some of them say that those who stop giving water to their mouth and nose repeat their prayers. They said that ablution and ghusl also return. Ibn Abi Leyla, Abdullah b. Mubarak, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. b. Hanbal says: For wudu, rinsing the nose with water and blowing the nose is more necessary than giving water to the mouth. A group with knowledge does not return it during wudu; They say that if the ghusl is abandoned, it must be renewed. Such is the view of Sufyan as-Sevri and the people of Kufa. If a group of people forgets to water the mouth and nose, there is no need to return it in wudu or ghusl, because giving water to the mouth and nose is the Sunnah of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). This is the later view of Malik and Shafi'i.
28-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) pour water into his mouth and nose with one hand. He did this three times.” (Bukhari, Voodoo: 25; Nesai, Tahara: 94) Abdullah b. There is also the hadith of Abbas. Abdullah b. This hadith of Zayd is hasan garib. Malik, Ibn Uyeyna and another person reported this hadith from Amr b. They narrated from Yahya and did not mention the part: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) poured water from a handful into his mouth and nose". This part only Khalid b. Abdullah has mentioned. This person is a sika and a hafiz among hadith scholars. For those who have knowledge: “It is enough to give water to both the mouth and the nose with a handful.” Then some of them say: “It would be nicer for us to do this job separately”. It is permissible to pour water into the mouth and nose with one palm; but it is more pleasant if it is done separately, he says.
29-) Hassan b. Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated as follows: Ammar b. I saw Yasir, he performed ablution and poured water between his beards. He said to her: "Are you running water between your beard?" said. He said: “Is there anything that will prevent this? I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) running water between his beards.” (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 50)
30-) Hassan b. Bilal (radiyallahu anh) narrated the same hadith from Ammar. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 50) There are also narrations on this subject from Osman, Aisha, Umm Salama, Enes, Ibn ebi Evfa and Abu Ayyub. Ishaq b. I heard Mansur saying: Ahmad b. Hanbal and Ibn Uyayna said: “Abdulkarim, the hadith of water running between the beards was reported by Hassan b. He has not heard from Bilal.” b. Ismail: The most authentic hadith reported on this subject is Amir b. It is a hadith narrated by Shakik from Abu Vail and Osman. The majority of the Companions and Tabiun scholars are of the opinion that water should be put between the beards. Shafii is of the same opinion. b. Hanbal: Wudu is permissible for a person who forgets to put water between his beard. If he abandons it by forgetting and interpreting it, his wudu is permissible; if he abandons it deliberately, he returns it.
31-) Osman b. According to what is reported from Affan (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to run the water of wudu' between his beards." (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 50) He said that this hadith is hasan authentic.
32-) Abdullah b. According to what is reported from Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wiped his head from front to back with both hands, moved his hand back and forth to where he first started, and then washed his feet.” (Bukhari, Voodoo: 40; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 51) Muaviye, Mikdam b. Hadith was also narrated from Ma'dikerib and Aisha. Abdullah b. This hadith of Zayd is the strongest and most beautiful. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq also hold this view.
33-) Muavviz b. According to the narration from Afra (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wiped his head twice, once from front to back and from back to front. He anointed both the inside and the outside of both ears.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 51; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 51) This hadith is a hasan hadith. Abdullah b. Zayd's hadith is more beautiful and better in this regard in terms of isad. The people of Kufa did their practice with this hadith. Vekî' b. Cerrâh is one of them.
34-) Muavviz b. According to what is reported from Afra (radiyallahu anha), he once saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) performing ablution and said: "He wiped his front and back parts of his head, temples and ears once." (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 60; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 51) Ali and Talha b. A hadith was also narrated from the grandfather of Mûsârrıf. Rubayyi' hadith is hasan authentic. Another narration from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) "He anointed his head once" came from another way. The scholars of the time of the Companions and the Tabi'in made their practices with this hadith. Jafar b. Muhammad, Sûfyan es Sevrî, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed, Ishaq are in favor of anointing the head once. b. Mansur al-Makki narrated: Sûfyan b. I heard from Uyeyna that he said: Cafer b. He asked Muhammad about wiping his head, "Is it enough for once?" said. “Yes, I swear it is enough,” he said.
35-) Abdullah b. It is reported from Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh): “He saw that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed ablution and anointed his head with water that he had just taken with no residue from his hands.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 51; Nesai, Tahara: 82) the hadith is hasan sahih. Lehia reported this hadith from Habban b. Vasi, his father and Abdullah b. Narrated by Zayd, he said: “The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) performed wudu and wiped his head with another water that did not contain the remnants of his hands.” b. The narration of al-Harith from Habban is more authentic. Because this hadith is Abdullah b. Zayd and others said in different ways: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) again took water to wipe his head." It has been reported. The majority of scholars; They are of the opinion that water should be taken again to wipe the head.
36-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wiped his head, inside and out of the ears." (Nesai, Tahara: 84; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara; 51) A hadith was also reported from Rubayyi on this subject. This hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan sahih. The opinion of the majority of scholars is that "the ears should be wiped inside and out".
37-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed wudu', washed his face and hands three times, wiped his head and said: "The ears are included in the wiping of the head." (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 53; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 51) Qutayba and Hammad said: "Ears are included in the anointing of the head": We do not know whether it is the word of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) or the word of Abu Umama. A hadith has also been narrated from Anas on this subject. This hadith is hasan, its isnad is not very strong. The practices of the Companions and followers of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and scholars are according to this hadith, ears are included in the wiping of the head. This is also the view of Sufyan es-Sevri, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq. According to scholars: The front of the ears, from the face; the back is counted from the beginning. He says: I prefer to wipe the front of the ears while washing my face. He says: It is sunnah to anoint the ears completely, and the hand should be anointed with fresh water, not with leftover water.
38-) Lakîd b. According to what is reported from the father of Sabira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When you make wudu, try to get the water between your fingers." (Nesâî, Tahara: 92; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 54) İbn Abbas, Müstevrid b. Hadiths were also narrated from Shaddad al-Fihri and Abu Ayyub al-Ansari. He said that this hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars made their practices according to this hadith, and they said that water must be passed between the toes during ablution. Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion. Ishaq says: "In ablution, one should try to pass water between the fingers and toes." The name of Abu Hashim, one of the narrators of the hadith: Ismail b. Kathir el Makki.
39-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When you make wudu, try to put water between your fingers and toes." (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 55; Nesai, Tahara: 93) This hadith is hasan garib.
40-) Müstevrid b. According to the narration from Shaddad al-Fihrî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) rubbing between his two toes with his pinky while performing wudu.” (Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 54; Nesai, Tahara: 92) This hadith is hasan garib. We know this only from the narration of Ibn Lehia.
41-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Let the heels that are not washed but left dry while performing ablution be punished by fire.” (Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 55; Nesai, Tahara: 89) on the subject: Abdullah b. Amr, Aisha, Jabir, Cez'in, Zubeydi's son Abdullah b. al-Haris, Muaykıb, Halid b. Velid, Şurahbil b. Hasene, Amr b. As, Yazid b. A hadith was also narrated from Sufyan. This hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan sahih. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Let the soles and heels of the feet be punished by fire, which are not washed and left dry while performing ablution." It was narrated in the form of hadith. The following is understood from the hadith: It is not permissible to wipe on bare feet without wearing socks and mest.
42-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed wudu by washing all his organs once." (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 45; Bukhari, Voodoo: 23) On this subject, hadiths were also reported from Omar, Jabir, Burayde, Rafi' and Ibn Fakih. This hadith of Ibn Abbas is the most beautiful and authentic of the narrations on this subject. Rişdîn b. Sa'd and others reported this hadith from Dahhak b. Şurahbil, Zayd b. Esleme's father and Umar b. It was narrated from Khattab: "He made ablution by washing his organs one by one". This hadith is not very solid. The authentic narration: İbn'ü Aclan, Hisham b. Sa'd, Sûfyan es Sevrî, Abdulaziz b. Muhammed, Zayd b. Eslem, Ata b. It is a narration from Yasar and Ibn Abbas.
43-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed wudu by washing all his organs twice.” (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 47; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 53) A hadith was also reported from Jabir on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was only reported by Ibn Sabban to Abdullah b. We know it from the narration of al-Fadl. The isnad of this is hasan sahih. Hemmâm narrates from Amir al-Ahvel, Ata and Abu Huraira that "He performed ablution by washing the ablution organs of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) three times each."
44-) According to what is narrated from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed wudu by washing all his organs three times.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 52, İbn Mâce, Tahara: 46) Osman, Âisha, Rübeyyi', İbn Ömer, Abu Ümame, Abu Rafi', Abdullah b. Amr, Muaviye, Abu Huraira, Jabir, Abdullah b. Zayd and Ubey b. Hadith was also narrated from Ka'b. The hadith of Ali is the most beautiful and authentic. Because this hadith It has been narrated from Ali by many people. The practices of scholars are based on this hadith. It is permissible and sufficient to wash the ablution organs alone. It is permissible and sufficient to wash it twice. It is more valuable to wash it twice. It is more valuable to wash three times, nothing else. Mubarak: I cannot say that a person who washes organs more than three times during ablution will be a sinner. and Ishaq: "People with delusions and sickness can do more than three."
45-) Fixed b. According to the narration from Ebî Saffiye (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said to Abu Jafar: “Did Jabir tell you that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed ablution by washing his ablution organs once, twice, and three times?” I asked. “Yes,” he said. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 45)
46-) Tirmidhi: Vekî', this hadith is Sabit b. Narrated by Abu Safiyya, he said: “Did Jabir tell you that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) made wudu by washing his ablution organs once?” said. “Yes,” he said. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 45) Hennad and Kutayba conveyed this hadith to us in this way, and Vekî', Sabit b. They said that he transferred it to us from Safiyya. This hadith is more authentic than Sharik's hadith, because it has been transmitted in other ways as well. Similar to the Vekî' narration, it was transferred from Sabit. On the other hand, he is a person who makes a lot of mistakes in the narration of hadith. fixed b. Ebî Safiyya's name is Abu Hamza es Sümâlî.
47-) Abdullah b. According to what is reported from Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed wudu: Wash his face three times; washing his arms twice; He anointed his head and washed his feet twice.” (Bukhari, Voodoo: 154; Ibn Mâce Tahara: 45; Nesai, Taharat: 65) He said that this hadith is hasan authentic. In other hadiths, it is mentioned that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made wudu by washing some of his wudu organs once and some three times. Some scholars have given permission to do so. They did not see any harm in washing some of their ablution organs three times, some twice, and some of them once.
48-) According to the narration from Abu Hayya (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I saw Ali, he performed ablution and washed his hands cleanly. Then he poured water into his mouth three times; three times he gave water to his nose; he also washed his face three times; he also washed his arms three times; anointed his head once; He washed his feet up to his heels, then got up and drank the water left over from wudu while standing and said: "I wanted to show you how the ablution of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was." (Bukhari, Voodoo': 25; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 46) Osman, Abdullah b. Zayd, Ibn Abbas, Abdullah b. Amr, Rübeyyi', Abdullah b. Hadith was narrated from Unays and Aisha.
49-) It was narrated from Abdi Hayr (radiyallahu anh) that he quoted the hadith narrated by Abu Hayye from Ali exactly, and said at the end: "When he finished his ablution, he would take the water left over from wudu with his palm and drink it." (Ibn Mace, Tahara: 45; Bukhari, Wudu': 25) This Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) hadith; Abu Ishaq al-Hamadani narrated it through each of Abu Hayye, Abdulhayr and al-Haris. b. Kudame and others Khalid b. They narrated from Alkame and Abdi Hayr at length from Ali (radiyallahu anh). This hadith is hasan authentic. Shu'ba reported this hadith from Khalid b. He narrated from Alkame. However, he made a mistake in the name of the person he narrated and his father and said: "Malik b. Urfuta” from Abdihayr and Ali. In Abu Avane; Khalid b. He narrated from Alkame, Abdihayr and Ali. Like the narration of Shu'ba "Malik b. The same narration was made from "Urfuta" and the correct name of this name is: "Khalid b. It is Alkame.
50-) According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Jibril came to me and O Muhammad! When he makes wudu (to prevent delusion), sprinkle water on the front of his clothes.” (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 58) This hadith is strange. I heard from Bukhari, he said: The hadiths of Hasen Ibn Ali al-Hashimi are not accepted. In this regard, Abu'l Hakam b. Sufyan, Ibn Abbas, Zayd b. A hadith was also narrated from Harisa, Abu Said al-Khudri. As seen in this hadith, some hadith scholars Sufyan b. When I say referee, some say Referee b. They fell into confusion by saying Sufyan.
51-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Shall I tell you with what Allah wipes away sins and raises ranks?" The Companions: “Yes, O Messenger of Allah!” they said. He said: "To perform wudu in the best way despite all kinds of difficulties, to increase the steps when going to the mosque to pray, to wait with great desire to perform the next prayer after one prayer. All of these are your greatest jihad in terms of worship.” (Muslim, Tahara: 14; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 58)
52-) Qutayba (radiyallahu anh) reported a similar hadith to Abdulaziz b. He added the following, quoting from Muhammad and al-A'la: "This is your ribat, this is your ribat, this is your ribat." (Muslim, Tahara: 14; Nesai, Tahara: 107) Ali, Abdullah b. Amr, Ibn Abbas, Abide (also called Ubeyde) b. Ömer, Aisha, Abdurrahman b. Hadith was also narrated from Âish al-Hadremî and Enes. The hadith of Abu Huraira on this subject is hasan authentic. A'la b. Abdurrahman; He is the son of Yakup al-Cuheni al-Huraki and is a trusted person among hadith scholars.
53-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had a towel; He would dry with it after wudu." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith of this Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) is not very sound. Because; There is nothing sound from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in this regard. One of the narrators of the hadith, Abu Muâz: “Süleyman b. It is said that "arkam" is considered weak by hadith scholars. In this regard, Muâz b. A hadith was also narrated from Jabal.
54-) Muâz b. According to what is reported from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performing ablution, and he wiped the wetness of his face with the tip of his robe.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange and weak in terms of senad. Rişdîn b. Sa'd and Abdurrahman b. Ziyd b. It has been determined that En'um al-Afrikıyyu is weak in hadith. Some of the savants of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the following period allowed drying with a towel. And those who do not like it: “Ablution will be weighed in terms of rewards.” They reached this conclusion because of his statement, and this is Saîd b. It is narrated from Musayyeb and Zuhri. b. Narrated by Humayd er Razi, he said: Ali b. Mujahid narrated to me, “According to me, he is a reliable person.” According to Zuhri, Zuhri said: "The disapproval of drying up after wudu will be weighed in terms of merits".
55-) Umar b. It was narrated from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever makes his wudu well and finally; Eşhedü en la ilahe illallahu vahdehû la şerîke leh ve Eşhedü enne Muhammeden abdühu ve rasülüh. Allahümecalnî minettevvabine vecalni minel mutetahhirîn” I believe and testify that there is no god but Allah. He has no partner. I also believe that Muhammad is His servant and Prophet. my god! Make me one of those who repent and who are purely cleansed. says, the eight gates of Paradise will be opened for him and he will enter through any gate he wishes. (Nesai, Tahara: 109; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 60) Enes and Ukbe b. There is also a narration from Amir. In this hadith of Umar, Zayd b. Hubab was opposed. Abdullah b. Salih and others related this hadith to Muawiya b. Salih, Rabia b. Yazîd, Ebû İdris, Ukbe b. Amir, Omar, Rabia, Abu Osman, Cübeyr b. They narrated from Nufeyr and Omar. There is confusion in the hadith. Not much has been reported authentically from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on this subject. Muhammad: Abu Idris said he did not hear anything from Omar.
56-) According to the narration from Safina (radiyallahu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to make ablution with one mud and ghusl with one sa'.” (Muslim, Hayz: 10; Dârimî, Tahara: 23) Hadiths were also reported from Aisha, Jabir and Enes on this subject. This Safina hadith is hasan sahih. The name of Abu Reyhan, Abdullah b. It is Matar. In this way, scholars have respected the scales in wudu and ghusl. Ahmed, Isaac; From this hadith, it does not mean that if it is less or more than this amount, it does not mean that it is not permissible.
57-) Ubey b. According to what is reported from Ka'b, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “As in every worship; Wudu also has a devil to cause delusions, it is called VELEHAN. Beware of his delusions and stay away from his delusions, as he makes people use water too much by causing delusions and delusions.” (Ibn Maje, Tahara: 48) Abdullah b. Amr and Abdullah b. A hadith has also been reported from Mughaffel. Ubey b. Ka'b's hadith is strange, the hadith is not very sound by hadithists. Because we do not know anyone other than Kharija who narrated this hadith. The hadith was narrated by means other than Hasan, and no authentic hadith has been reported from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) on this subject. Among hadith scholars, Kharija is not very strong. Ibn al-Mubarak considers this person one of the weak ones.
58-) It is narrated from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “Whether the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) has wudu or not; He would also perform ablution for each prayer.” The narrator of the hadith, Humayd, said, “To Anas: how would you do it?” I asked him. He replied, "We used to make one ablution." (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 72; Nesai, Tahara: 101) This hadith narrated by Anas from Humayd is hasan garib in this respect. On the other hand, Amr b. The hadith narrated by Amir al-Ansari from Enes is famous. Some scholars consider making wudu for every prayer as mustahab, not wâjib.
59-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “For a person who makes wudu on his ablution, Allah will reward ten wudu'.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 32; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 73) narrates the hadith from al-Afriki, Abu Gutayf and Ibn Omar. In this way, Husayn b. Hureys el Marvezî and Muhammed b. Yazid narrated from al-Wasiti and al-Afriki that it is weak in terms of isnad. b. al Medini, Yahya b. It is narrated from Said al-Kattan: This hadith is from Hisham b. When reminded to Urwa: "This narration is the form of the narration of the Kufa and Basra region, which is called the mashrik". Ahmed b. I heard from Hasen, he was saying: Ahmad b. Hanbel's; “Yahya b. I have never seen anyone like Saîd al-Kattan,” I heard him say.
60-) Amr b. Amir al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh) says I heard Enes say: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to make wudu for every prayer.” To Enes: “What would you do?” said. He said, "We used to perform many prayers with one ablution, unless our ablution was broken." (Nesai, Tahara: 101; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 72) This hadith is hasan authentic, and the hadith narrated by Humayd from Anas is ceyyid garib hasen.
61-) According to the narration from the father of Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform ablution for every prayer. On the day of the conquest of Makkah, he performed all the prayers with a single ablution and wiped over his meshes.” Upon this, Omar (radiyallahu anh): "You have done what you have not done until now!" when he said: "I did this on purpose, Omar!" they have ordered. (Muslim, Tahara: 25; Nesai, Tahara: 100) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ali b. Kadim narrates this hadith from Sûfyan es Tevî with the following addition: "By washing the ablution organs once." Sûfyan es Sevrî likewise reported this hadith from Muharib b. From Disâr and Süleyman b. By narrating from Burayda; He says, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform ablution for every prayer." Vekî', Sûfyan, Muharib, Süleyman b. Burayda also narrated the same hadith from his father. Abdurrahman b. Mahdi and others; Sufyan, Muharib b. Disâr and Süleyman b. He narrated from Burayda as mursal that this hadith is more authentic than Waki's hadith. Scholars make their practices according to this hadith. As long as the ablution is not broken, the prayers are performed with one ablution. Some consider it mustahab, hoping for its reward. Narrated by Ifrikî, Abu Gutayf, and Ibn Omar: "Whoever makes wudu again without breaking his wudu: Allah will give him ten rewards." The attribution of this hadith is weak. on the subject of Jabir b. It is narrated from Abdillah: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the noon and afternoon prayers with one ablution."
62-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), Maymuna reported: “I and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to make ghusl from a vessel.” (Bukhari, Ghusl: 2; Muslim, Tahara: 10) This hadith is hasan authentic. This is the view of the general jurists. It is okay for a husband and wife to bathe in a bowl. On this subject, hadiths were narrated from Ali, Aisha, Enes, Umm Hani, Umm Subayya al-Juheniyye, Umm Salama and Ibn Omar. The name of Abu Sha'sa, Jabir b. It is Zayd.
63-) According to a narration from a man from the sons of Giffar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade making wudu with the water left over from the wudu of a woman." (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 40; Nesâî, Miyah: 12) Abdullah b. There is also a narration from Sercis. Some of the jurists did not like to make wudu with the water left over from the cleaning of the woman. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. These people, who see the water left over from the cleaning of women as abominable, do not see any harm with the residue left from the water that women drink.
64-) Referee b. According to what was reported from Amr al-Gifari (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He forbade the man to make wudu with the water left over from the cleanliness of the woman” or because it was leftover. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 40; Nesai, Miyah: 12) This hadith is hasan. The name of Abu Hajib is “Sevâbe b. Asim". b. Bashar says in this hadith: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade a man to make wudu with the water left over from the cleanliness of a woman" and does not fall into doubt.
65-) It was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: One of the wives of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) took a bath in Jafna. “O Messenger of Allah! I was junub.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Water does not become junub, that is, it does not become dirty.” (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 33; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 35) This hadith is hasan authentic. The views of Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik and Shafii are also in line with this hadith.
66-) According to what is narrated from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said; “O Messenger of Allah! Can we make ablution from the water of Buddha's well? When he said, "Menstruation glands, stinky things and dog carcasses can also be dragged into that well by means of flood waters and wind." “The abundant water is always clean, nothing can pollute it.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 34; Nesai, Miyah: 2) This hadith is hasan. Abu Usama cleaned and beautified the document of this hadith. No one has narrated this hadith of Abu Said about the Buddha's well better than the narration of Abu Usama. Again, this hadith was narrated from Abu Said in different ways. A hadith was also narrated from Ibn Abbas and Aisha on this subject.
67-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said; He was asked about whether it is possible to make ablution from a water that is frequented by various animals and predators in a deserted place. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Nothing will pollute it if the water is equal to the amount of a kulla." (Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 76; Dârimî, Tahara: 55) Muhammed b. He relates that Ishaq said: “Kulle” refers to large water jars and different containers for drinking water. The views of Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are like this and they say: "If the water is in the amount of two kullas, as long as its taste, color and smell do not change, nothing will make that water najis, this amount is approximately five "krips".
68-) According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “None of you should bathe in stagnant water that does not flow, then he can take water from it and perform ablution.” (Bukhari, Voodoo: 73; Nesai, Tahara: 31) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith has also been narrated from Jabir (radiyallahu anh) on this subject.
69-) According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “A man; We travel to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) by sea and carry a little water with us. He asked, The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied, "The water of the sea is clean, and the dead are halal." (Nesâî, Miyah: 5; İbn Mâce, Sayd: 18) hadiths were also reported from Jabir and al-Firasi. This hadith is hasan authentic. This is the view of many scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Abu Bakr, Omar and Ibn Abbas are among them and they do not see any harm in making wudu using sea water. Some of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not like to make wudu using sea water. Ibn Umar and Abdullah b. Amr is one of them. Abdullah b. Amr says that sea water burns like fire.
70-) According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) visited two graves and said: “The person in these two graves is being punished; he would splash it on him, and this one used to spread the word to disturb people.” (Bukhari, Voodoo: 58; Nesai, Cenaiz: 116) In this regard, Abu Huraira, Abu Musa, Abdurrahman b. Hasene, Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit and Abu Bakr. This hadith is hasan authentic. Mansur relates this hadith from Mujahid and Ibn Abbas and does not mention the "Tavustan" section in his deed. The narration of A'mash is more authentic. Clerk: Abu Bakr and Muhammad b. I heard Eban al-Balkhi say: I heard Vekî say: “A'mesh understood Ibrahim's isnad better than Mansur.”
71-) Umm Qays bint Mihsan (radiyallahu anha) reported that she said: “I went to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) with my child, who had not eaten yet. While the child was in his arms, he wet himself. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked for water and sprinkled it on the wet ground.” (Bukhari, Voodoo: 64; Muslim, Tahara: 31) In this regard, Ali, Aisha, Zeynep, Lübabe bintil Haris is the mother of Fadl, son of Abbas, son of Abdulmuttalip. Ebus Semh, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Abu Layla and Ibn Abbas. This is the view of the majority of the Companions, followers and followers of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Ahmed and Ishaq are among them and they say: "Water is poured into the boy's urine, and the girl's urine is washed;
72-) It is narrated from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “Some people from the tribe of Urayna came to Medina, and because they were used to living in the desert, they could not get used to the weather of Medina. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) gave zakat camels to them with his shepherd and said: "Go out of Madina with these camels and drink their milk and urine." They went there and killed the shepherd of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and took the camels with them and turned from the religion of Islam. Then they were caught and brought to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) as punishment, their hands and feet were cut on crosswise sides, their eyes were gouged out, and they were left to die in a region called Hara. The narrator of the hadith, Anas, says: "I saw some of them die with their mouths scratching the ground from thirst." He claimed so. Hammad said in the last part of the hadith, "Some of them scratched the ground with their mouths out of thirst." (Ibn Majah, Hudûd: 20; Nesai, Tahara: 191) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Enes in other ways. The majority of scholars are of this opinion, and they do not see any harm in the urine of animals whose meat is eaten.
73-) According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The only reason why the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cut their eyes was because they also cut the shepherd's eye.” (Bukhari, Voodoo: 70; Nesai, Tahara: 191) This hadith is strange. This elder, Yahya b. Other than Gaylân, Yazid b. We do not know his narration from Zürey. In accordance with the 45th verse of the time period: "There is retaliation in wounds" was thus revealed. Sirin is reported to have said: “The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) applied this punishment to those people, before the punishment was reduced in all matters.”
74-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Ablution should be done because of the smell and sound of flatulence.” (Muslim, Hayz 26; Nasai, Tahara: 115) This hadith is hasan authentic.
75-) According to what we have been told from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If a person who is in the mosque for prayer senses a movement between his hips, he should not go out of the mosque to make ablution unless he hears a smell or a sound. ” (Nesai, Tahara: 115; Muslim, Hayz: 26) Abdullah b. Zayd, Ali b. Hadith was also narrated from Talc, Aisha, Ibn Abbas, Ibn Mas'ud and Abu Said. This hadith is hasan authentic. The opinion of the scholars is as follows: "Performing ablution is only due to hades or the smell and sound of farting." b. Mubarak said: "If a person suspects that his wudu is broken, he does not need to renew his wudu until he knows with certainty enough to swear." This is the opinion of Shafi'i and Ishaq.
76-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The prayer of a person whose wudu is broken is not accepted until he performs wudu again.” (Bukhari, Voodoo: 2; Nesai, Tahara: 115) This hadith is garib hasan sahih.
77-) According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) snoring while prostrating, then stood up and prayed and said: “O Messenger of Allah! You were really asleep,” he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Wudu' is necessary for those who sleep while lying down, because when a person lies down, their joints become loose." (Muslim, Hayz: 6; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 62) The name of Abu Khalid, one of the narrators of the hadith, is Yazid b. Abdurrahman. A hadith was also narrated from Aisha, Ibn Mas'ud and Abu Huraira on this subject.
78-) Enes b. According to what was narrated from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to sleep and then get up and pray without making wudu." (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 62; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 79) This hadith is hasan authentic. Salih b. I heard Abdulah say: “Abdullah b. Does a person who sleeps while leaning on Mubarak should perform ablution? I asked. He replied: "No need". Said b. While Abu Aruba was narrating this hadith of Ibn 'Abbas from Qatada and Ibn 'Abbas, he overlooked Abu 'Aliya, one of the narrators in between, and did not make the hadith abrogated. They had different opinions about making wudu' due to sleep, the majority: "They are of the opinion that ablution is not necessary unless the person lying down or lying down is lying down." Some scholars say, "If he falls asleep so much that he cannot have his mind and feelings, he must perform ablution." This is the view of Ishaq. He says, "If a person who sleeps sitting down dreams in his sleep and his hips are relaxed due to sleep, he needs ablution."
79-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is necessary to make wudu for things cooked in the fire, even if it is a piece of cheese.” For this reason, Abu Huraira asked Ibn Abbas: "O Abu Huraira! Do we have to perform ablution even if we eat oil and drink hot water?” Abu Huraira: “O my brother! When you hear a hadith from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), do not try to come up with different examples to oppose it.” (Muslim, Hayz: 24; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 65) Umm Habibe, Umm Salama, Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Sabit, Abu Talha, Abu Eyyüp and Abu Musa. Some scholars are of the opinion that it is necessary to make wudu because of the things cooked in the fire. Many of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) were of the opinion that "it is not necessary to perform ablution" because of things cooked in the fire.
80-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: "While we were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), we entered the house of a woman from the Ansar. The woman slaughtered him a sheep. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ate its meat. Then he brought a plate of fresh dates and ate it, then he made wudu for the noon prayer and prayed. Then he came to that woman again, and the woman brought some more meat from the pieces of mutton that was eaten before noon, and the Messenger of Allah ate it and performed the afternoon prayer without making wudu." (Muslim, Hayz: 24; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 66) Abu Bakr es Siddik, Ibn Abbas, Abu Huraira, Ibn Mas'ud, Abu Rafi', Ummul Hakam, Amr b. Ümayye, Umm Amir, Suveyd b. Hadith was also narrated from Numan and Umm Salama. The hadith of Abu Bakr on this subject is not authentic in terms of saned. Because only Husam b. Misak relates this hadith from Ibn Sirin, Ibn Abbas and Abu Bakr. This is the true form of narration. This is the narration of hadith memorizers. This hadith is also narrated from Ibn Sirin and Ibn Abbas in different ways. Ata b. Yesâr, İkrime, Muhammed b. Amr b. Ata, Ali b. Abdullah b. They did not take Abu Bakr as narration by narrating from Abbas, which is more authentic. The opinion of many people from the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and his followers is on this hadith. Sufyan es Sevrî, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of the opinion that ablution is not necessary because of the food cooked in the fire. This is the last exercise of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). It is as if this hadith annulled the previous hadith.
81-) Berâ b. Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported that he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about performing ablution when eating camel meat, and he said: “Take an ablution.” Should ablution be made because of mutton? To the question, they said: "Ablution is not necessary". (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 71; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 67) In this regard, Câbir b. Semure and Üseyd b. A hadith was also narrated from Hudayr, Haccac b. Ertaa reported this hadith from Abdullah b. Abdullah, Abdurrahman b. Ebi Leylâ and Üseyd b. It is narrated from Hudayr. But what is true; Abdurrahman b. Abî Leylâ's, Berâ b. It is a hadith narrated by Azib. Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion. If ed Dabbi, this hadith; Abdullah b. Abdullah er Razi, Abdurrahman b. It was narrated from Abi Layla and Zulkurra al-Cuheni. b. Salama reported this hadith from Haccac b. Narrating from Ertaa, he made a mistake about the name and says: Abdullah b. Abdurrahman b. Abi Layla, her father and Usayd b. From Hudayr… The correct and authentic narration: Abdullah b. Abdullah er Razi's Abdurrahman b. Barâ b. It is the form made from Âzib. Ishaq says: There are two authentic hadiths from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on this subject, one of which is Bara b. Azib's other was Câbir b. It comes from Semure. And İshak's view is in this direction, and it has been reported that some scholars from Tabin and Tebe-i Tabin are of the opinion that "it is not necessary to perform ablution because of eating camel meat". Scholars from Sufyan as-Sevri and Kufa also hold this view.
82-) Büsre b. According to a narration from Safwan (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If any of you touches the phallus, let him perform ablution.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 70; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 63) Umm Habibe, Abu Ayyub, Abu Huraira, Erva bint Unays, Aisha, Jabir, Zayd b. Khalid and Abdullah b. There are also narrations from Amr. This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith was narrated by different people, Hisham b. They narrated from Urwa from his father and Busra.
83-) This hadith by Usama (radiyallahu anh) and others; Hisham b. from Urwa, his father and Marwan b. They narrated similarly from Busre. Ishaq b. This hadith was also narrated from Mansur and Abu Usama. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 69; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 63)
84-) Abu'z Zinad (radiyallahu anh) narrated this hadith from Urwa, Busra. Again, the same hadith Ali b. Hucr through Abdurrahman b. It was transmitted similarly from Abu'z Zinad and his father through Urve and Busre. (Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 69) The opinion of many people from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and Tabin is in this direction. Evzai, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq also adopted this view. The most authentic hadith on this subject is the hadith of Busra. Abu Zür'a says: Umm Habiba's hadith on this subject is authentic. hadith; Ala b. al-Harith's; Mekhûl, Anbese b. It was narrated through Abi Sufyan and Umm Habiba. says: Makhûl, Anbese b. He did not hear this hadith from Abu Sufyan. Makhûl narrated another hadith through another narrator. Thus, it is understood that Muhammad did not consider this hadith authentic.
85-) Kays b. talk b. According to what is narrated from Ali (radiyallahu anh)'s father, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Isn't the male genitalia a part of a human being?" (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 70; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 64) A hadith was also reported from Abu Umama on this subject. Some of the Companions and Tabi'un said that ablution is not necessary because of touching the phallus. They are of the opinion that touching the phallus will not invalidate wudu. This is the view of Ibn al-Mubarak and the people of Kufa. This is the best of what has been reported about it. This hadith is Ayyub b. Utbe, Muhammed b. Câbir and Kays b. It was also reported from Talk's father. Some hadith scholars such as Muhammad b. Câbir and Eyyûb b. They criticized the Utba narration. b. Amr's, Abdullah b. The narration from Badr is more authentic and beautiful.
86-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) kissed some of his wives and prayed without making wudu.” The narrator of the hadith, Urve, says: When I said to Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) that you must be his wife, Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) laughed. (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 68; Nesai, Tahara: 121) It has been reported that the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the scholars of later periods held this view. Sûfyan es Sevrî and the people of Küfe also hold this view, that is, "There is no need to make wudu for kissing." b. Enes, Evzâî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishak say that it is necessary to make wudu for kissing. Some people from the Companions and Tabiun also hold this view. This hadith narrated by Aisha from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was not accepted by the hadith scholars because they did not consider it sound in terms of the hadith. Bekir el Attar al Basrî's, Ali b. I heard al-Madinî say: Yahya b. Said al-Kattan found this hadith weak and said that it had no effect. On the other hand, Muhammad b. Ismail saw this hadith weak and said, "Habib b. Abî Thabit did not hear anything from Urwa”. et Taymi narrated from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) kissed and did not make wudu.” This hadith is not authentic as above. Because we do not know that Ibrahim et Taymi heard hadiths from Aisha (radiyallahu anha). There was no authentic hadith reported by the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) on this subject.
87-) According to what is narrated from Abud Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) vomited, broke his fast and made wudu.” The narrator says: "I met Sevban in the mosque of Damascus and told him this hadith." He said: "It is true, I poured the ablution water." (Dârimî, Savm: 24; Ebû Dâvûd, Siyam: 32) İshâk b. Mansur: Ma'dan b. Talha says. However, the name "Ibn Abi Talha" is more correct. The opinion of many of the Companions and followers of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Wudu is necessary because of vomiting, phlegm and nosebleeds." es Sevrî, İbn'ül Mubarak, Ahmed and İshâk are also of this opinion. Some scholars say: “Wudu is not necessary due to vomiting, phlegm and nosebleeds.” This is the view of Malik and Shafi'i. Husayn al-Muallim said that this hadith is ceyyid. The hadith of Husayn on this subject is the most authentic. this hadith by Yahya b. He narrates from Kathir and says the following by mistake in his deed: Yeish b. From Walid, Khalid b. From Ma'dan and Abu'd Darda, in one way he does not mention al-Awzai in his deed, and on the other hand, Khalid b. It says from ma. However, this “Ma'dan b. Abi Talha."
88-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked me what was in the water bowl, I said there is only juice, and he said, dates are nice and its water is clean. Then he made ablution from it.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 42; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 37) This hadith was narrated only from Abu Zayd and Abdullah. Abu Zayd is considered unknown by hadith scholars. No other narration is known from this hadith. Some of the scholars; They are of the opinion that it is permissible to make wudu with sira. Sûfyan es Sevrî and others are among them. Some scholars say: "You can't make ablution with sher." Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. Ishaq says: If someone is in this situation, it is nice to make wudu and tayammum. The opinion of those who say, “There is no wudu with shira”: It is more suitable for the decree of the Qur'an because Allah says in “4 Nisa: 43: “O you who believe! Do not try to pray while intoxicated, wait until you know what you are saying, and do not pray while you are in a state that requires ablution. However, if you are a passenger and do not have the opportunity to wash, that is different. If you are sick or on a journey, or if you have just broken your wudu or if you have approached one of your wives and cannot find any water, then make tayammum with clean soil and rub it lightly on your hands and face. Know that Allah is the one who cleans sins and forgives a lot”.
89-) According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) drank milk, then had water brought and rinsed his mouth, and said: Milk is a fatty drink.” (Bukhari, Voodoo: 55; Nesai, Tahara: 125) Sahl b. A hadith was also narrated from Sa'd and Umm Salama. This hadith is hasan authentic. Scientists are of the opinion that rinsing the mouth due to drinking milk is mustahab in our opinion. Some scholars say: "It is not necessary to rinse your mouth because of milk."
90-) It was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): “A man greeted him while the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was urinating. He didn't receive her greeting either." (Nesai, Tahara: 33; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. In our opinion, it is not welcomed to greet those who break wudu'. Some scholars. This is how they interpreted this hadith. This hadith is the best of those that have been narrated on this subject. In this regard, Muhâcir b. Kunfuz, Abdullah b. Hanzala, Alkame b. Feğva, Câbir and Berâ b. A hadith was also narrated from Azib.
91-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The cup that the dog licks is washed seven times, the first or the last, with soil. The bowl licked by the cat is washed once.” (Muslim, Tahara: 27; Nesai, Tahara: 52) This hadith is hasan authentic. The view of Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq is also in this hadith. This hadith was narrated from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in a similar way through Abu Huraira, and the section "The bowl licked by the cat is washed once" does not pass. Again, Abdullah b. A hadith has also been reported from Muğaffer.
92-) Ka'b b. It is narrated from Malik (radiyallahu anh)'s daughter, Kebshe (radiy-Allâhu anha), who was the wife of Abu Qatada's son. I prepared ablution water for Abu Qatada; meanwhile a thirsty cat came and approached the water bowl. Abu Qatada tilted the water bowl and made the cat drink water. When he saw that I did not like this incident, he said: "O my sister's daughter, are you surprised?" said. I said yes, too. Thereupon he said; “The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): Cats are not najis because they are domestic animals that roam around you.” (Nesâî, Tahara: 54; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 32) narrators reported from Mâlik that Kebşe was the wife of Abu Qatada. But the truth is, Kebshe is the wife of Abu Qatada's son. A hadith was also narrated from Aisha and Abu Hurayra. This hadith is hasan authentic. This is the opinion of many scholars from the companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them, and they do not see any harm in the waste of cats. This hadith is the best of those that have been narrated on this subject. Malik reported this hadith from Ishaq b. Abdullah b. He narrated it from Abi Talha in the best way. There was no narrator more perfect than Malik.
93-) Hemmâm b. According to the narration from Haris (radiyallahu anh), he said: Jarir b. Abdillah broke the small ablution, then performed ablution, and then wiped over his meshes. They said to him, are you doing this? Then: “Is there an obstacle for me to do this? I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) doing this." Ibrahim, one of the narrators of the hadith, says that this statement of Jarir would have pleased Abdullah's friends because it was after the arrival of the Maide period that Jarir became a Muslim. The word "he liked it by his friends" is the word of Ibrahim, one of the narrators of the hadith. (Muslim, Tahara: 22; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 60) Ömer, Ali Huzeyfe, Muğre, Bilal, Said, Abu Ayyub, Salman, Burayde, Amr b. Umayye, Enes, Sehl b. Said, Ya'la b. Murre, Ubade b. Samit, Usama b. Şerîk, Ebû Umâme, Câbir, Usâme b. Zayd, Ibn Ubade (also known as Ibn Umara) and Ubay b. Hadith was also narrated from Imara. This hadith of Jarir is hasan authentic.
94-) Shahr b. According to the narration from Havseb (radiyallahu anh), he said: Jarir b. I saw Abdullah. He made ablution and wiped over his mestizos. When I asked him about this issue, he said, “I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); He performed ablution and anointed over his meshes.” I said: Before the revelation of the Surah al-Maida? After? Said. He said: I became a Muslim after the end of the time of Maida. (Muslim, Tahara: 22; Nesai, Tahara: 96) this hadith is from Khalid b. Ziyâd et Tirmidhi, Mukatil b. Hayyan, Şehr b. He narrated from Cerir through Havsheb. Bakiyya reported this hadith from Ibrahim b. Ethem, Mukatil b. Hayyan, Şehr b. He narrated from Havşeb and Cerir. This hadith has been the subject of tafsir. Those who deny the mesh on mest comment on this event, and this event; They tried to say that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was abrogated with the verse of wudu by saying that it was before the revelation of the chapter of al-Maida. However, in this hadith, Jarir came to the satisfaction of other narrators by telling the date of his becoming a Muslim.
95-) Huzeyme b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was asked about the duration of anointing on merests; He said, "Three days for a traveler and one day for a non-traveler." (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 61; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 86) b. In the hadith of Thabit about the anointing, Yahya b. It is reported that Maîn said he was sahih. Abdullah el Cedeli, one of the narrators, was named Abd b. Abd and Abdurrahman b. It is called in the USA. This hadith is hasan authentic. On this subject, Ali, Abu Bekre, Abu Huraira, Saffan b. Assal, Avf b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik, Ibn Umar and Jarir.
96-) Saffan b. According to the narration from Assal (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to order us not to take off our mestizos when we were traveling for three days and three nights, except when we made ablution, except for junub, and because of sleepiness.” (Nesai, Tahara: 98; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 86) This hadith is hasan authentic. Referee b. Utayba and Hammad reported this hadith as Ibrahim Nehai, Abu Abdullah al Cedeli, Huzeyme b. They have narrated from Thabit that this narration is not authentic. al-Madinî says: Yahya b. Said, quoting Shu'be, said, "He did not hear the hadith of anointing over mest from Abu Abdillah al-Jadeli". Quoting Mansur, he says: We were in Ibrahim et Taymi's room, and Ibrahim an Nehai was with us. Maymun, Abu Abdullah el Cedeli, Huzeyme b. He explained it by transferring it from the constant. Muhammed b. Ismail says: Saffan b. It is the most beautiful hadith of Assal al-Muradi on this subject. Most of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the scholars of the later period are of the opinion that the period of anointing is three days for a traveler and one day for a non-traveler. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. There are also narrations from some scholars that a time was not determined for anointing. Malik b. Enes is of this opinion. But it is more accurate to determine the time. Apart from the narration of Asım, Safwan b. It was also reported from Assal.
97-) Mugîre b. According to a narration from Shu'ba (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wiped the top and bottom of the mesten.” (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 85; Bukhari, Voodoo: 51) This is the opinion of many of the followers of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the scholars of the next century. Malik, Shafii and Ishaq are among them. There is a hidden error in the hadith. One of his narrators, Sevr b. Yazid, Walid b. No one other than Muslim narrated it. Ebû Zür'a and Muhammed b. I asked Ismail about this hadith and they said it is not authentic. Because Ibn'ul Mubarak derived this hadith from Sevr in this way, Reca b. It's from Hayve. Reca, on the other hand, told me from Muğîre's clerk that the hadith has been turned into a mursal, that is, he bypassed the Companions and transferred it directly from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and Muğîre's name was not mentioned.
98-) Again Muğîre b. According to a narration from Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wiping the face of his majesty." (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 85; Bukhari, Voodoo: 51) This hadith of Mughira is hasan. This hadith is Abdurrahman b. It is transmitted from the father of Ebû'z Zinad, from Urve and Muğîre. We do not know anyone other than Abdurrahman who quoted the word "to the faces of Mestin" among those who narrated from Urwa and Muğîre. This is the view of some of his men. Sûfyan es Sevrî and Ahmed are among them. Muhammad says: Malik b. Enes, Abdurrahman b. ebi'z considered Zinad weak and pointed out that he was someone who was talked about.
99-) Again Muğîre b. According to a narration from Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to wipe over his socks and shoes." (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 62; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 88) He said that this hadith is hasan sahih. This is the view of some scholars. Sûfyan es Sevrî, İbn'ül Mübârek, Şafii, Ahmed, and İshâk are among them; They said, "Socks are anointed even if they are solid like shoes and without soles." A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Musa on this subject. Salih b. I heard it from Muhammed et Tirmidhi. He said he heard from Abu Mukatil es Samarkanddi and said: “I went to Abu Hanifa when he died, he had water brought, he had ablutions, he had socks on his feet, he wiped his socks and said: Today I am doing a job that I did not do before, even though there is no solid sole on my socks. I anointed.”
100-) Again Muğîre b. According to a narration from Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed ablution, wearing a turban and wiping over his loins." (Bukhari, Vudu, 51; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 89) one of his narrators, Bekr said: "I heard it from Muğîre's son". Muhammed b. Bashar added the following sentence to this hadith in another place: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wiped his hair and turban on his forehead." This hadith is Mughira b. It was narrated from Shu'ba in different ways. In some narrations, it is called "his forehead and turban", in others it is called only "hijab". b. Hasen, Ahmed b. I heard Hanbal say: “My eyes are on Yahya b. He has never seen anyone like Sait al-Qattan.” In this regard, Amr b. Hadith was narrated from Umayya, Salman, Sevban and Abu Umama. Muğîre b. The hadith of Shu'ba is hasan authentic. Among the companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), people like Abu Bakr, Omar, and Enes, Evzâî, Ahmed, and Ishaq, say, "The anointing is given on the turban." Again, many of the Companions and followers of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "Not only the turban should be wiped, but a part of the head should also be wiped". Sufyan es Sevrî, Malik b. Anas, Ibn al-Mubarak and Shafi'i hold this view. Carûd b. According to what I heard from Muâz, he said: Vekî b. I heard al Jarrah say: “Only wiping on the turban is sufficient according to the hadith sharif.”
101-) According to the narration from Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wiped his headscarves and the headscarf he put under his turban.” (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 89; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 58)
102-) Ebû Ubeyde b. Muhammed b. Ammar b. According to what is reported from Yasir (radiyallahu anh), he said: Jabir b. I asked Abdillah about anointing over the meshes; He said, "Sunnah is what the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) did." I asked about anointing on the turban: “Touch the water in your hair! "O my brother's son," he said. (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
103-) According to what was narrated from Maymuna, the aunt of Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), she said, “I prepared water for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to make ghusl. and washed his hands. Then he took the water from the bowl with his hand and poured it on his private parts, then he rubbed his hand on the wall and the soil, then watered his mouth and nose, washed his face and arms, poured water on his head three times, then poured water all over his body and stepped aside and washed his feet. (Bukhari, Ghusl: 1; Muslim, Hayz: 29) This hadith is hasan authentic. Umm Salama, Jabir, Abu Said, Jubayr b. Hadith was also narrated from Mut'im and Abu Huraira.
104-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) takes a ghusl, he washes his genitals before putting his hands in the water bowl, then washes his genitals. He used to wet it and then pour water over his head three times.” (Bukhari, Ghusl: 1; Muslim, Hayz; 90) This hadith is hasan. Scholars accept washing because of janaba as in this hadith and say, "Wudu should be performed like prayer ablution, then water should be poured on the head three times, then the whole body should be washed, and finally the feet should be washed." men acted according to this hadith and said: If a junub person dives into water without making wudu, this is sufficient for ghusl. This is what Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq say.
105-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), “O Messenger of Allah, I am braiding my hair tightly, should I untie these braids for ghusl?” They said: "It is enough to pour water on your head three times, then you wash your whole body so that you will be clean." (Muslim, Hayz: 12; Nasai, Ghusl and Tayammum: 12) This hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars made their practices according to this hadith. It is sufficient for a woman to pour water on her head without untying her braids.
106-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “At the bottom of every hair is junub; wash your hair, cleanse your whole body.” (Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 97; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 106) hadiths were also narrated from Ali and Anas. Haris b. This hadith of vecih is strange. We know this hadith only from his narration. This old man is not very firm in the narration of hadith. Many hadith leaders have narrated from him. Malik b. Only he himself narrated this hadith from Dinar. "Harith b. As the son of Vecih is called, it is also called the son of Vecbe.
107-) It was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not make wudu after ghusl.” (Nesai, Ghusl: 24; Abu Dâvûd: Tahara: 98) This hadith is hasan authentic. This is the view of many of the Companions and of course scholars. That is, they say, "There is no need to make wudu after ghusl".
108-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “When a man's circumcision area exceeds a woman's circumcision, it is necessary to perform ghusl. This is how I and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) do this and bathe." (Bukhari, Ghusl: 27; Muslim, Hayz: 22) Abu Huraira, Abdullah b. Amr and Rafi' b. Hadith was also narrated from hadith.
109-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When the circumcision place exceeds the circumcision place, it is necessary to perform ghusl.” (Bukhari, Ghusl: 25; Muslim, Hayz: 27) The hadith of Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) is hasan authentic. This hadith has been narrated in different ways. “Ghusl is required when the circumcision area exceeds the circumcision area.” Many of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) hold this view. The scholars of the Tabi'un and the following period, such as Abu Bakr, Ömer, Osman, Ali, and Aisha, are of the same opinion. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafi'i, Ahmed, and Ishaq say, "Ghusl is required if the circumcision points overlap each other."
110-) Ubey b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Water, that is, bathing is due to water, that is, because of the coming of semen, its base was a permission in the early periods of Islam, then it was removed." (Muslim, Hayz: 21; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 110)
111-) This hadith is from Ahmad b. Meni', Abdullah b. It is also narrated from Mubarak, Ma'mer and Zuhri. This hadith is hasan authentic. The need for ghusl due to the descent of the semen was in the early periods of Islam, but later it was abolished. Different people from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) hold the same opinion. Ubey b. Ka'b and Rafi' b. Hadîc is one of them. Most of the scholars act according to this hadith and say, "A man has intercourse with his wife and even if his semen does not come out, a ghusl is required for both of them."
112-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: (Tirmidhi narrated.) I heard from Carud, he said: Wakî' says: Only Sharik narrates this hadith. The name of Abu'l Cahhaf: “Davud b. ebî Awf.” It is reported that Sufyan as-Swri said: "Abu'l Cahhaf is an acceptable person who narrated hadiths to us and we were pleased with." In this regard, Osman b. Affan, Ali b. Abu Talib, Zubayr, Talha, Abu Ayyub, Abu Said hadiths as: "Water is necessary because of water".
113-) It was narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) was asked about the situation of a person who saw wetness and did not remember that he had a rash: He said, "he makes ghusl". A person who remembers that there was an outbreak but did not see wetness was asked: "Ghusl is not required", they said. Salama says: 'O Messenger of Allah! If a woman sees this, is a ghusl necessary?' The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Yes, because women are similar to men in every way." (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 94; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 112) This hadith was only reported by Abdullah b. Umar, Ubeydullah b. He narrated the hadith of Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) from Ömer to us: Yahya b. Said, one of the narrators of this hadith, Ubeydullah b. He finds Ömer weak in terms of memory. The opinion of many of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and scholars of the Tabi'un period is as follows: "If a person wakes up, he should make a ghusl". Sûfyan es Sevrî and Ahmed are among them. The opinion of some of the scholars of the period is: "If wetness is a semen, a ghusl is required" Shafii and Ishaq are among them. According to the majority of scholars, "ghusl is not necessary if there is a conflict and if there is no wetness".
114-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about Mazi: “You need ablution from Mazi and ghusl from semen.” (Bukhari, Gusul: 13; Muslim, Hayz: 4) Mikdad b. From Esved and Ubey b. Hadith was also narrated from Ka'b. Tirmidhi: This hadith is hasan authentic. From the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) to Ali b. This hadith was narrated by Abu Talib in different ways. "Well; ablution is required from the maze and ghusl is required from the semen”. This is the view of many scholars of course and later periods. Sufyan, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
115-) Sahl b. According to the narration from Hunayf (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I had a lot of trouble and difficulty due to the arrival of mezes, so I used to make ghusl a lot. I explained the situation to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and asked him about it. They said that it is sufficient to make wudu for the mazi. Then I asked what will be the situation of the graduation that got on my clothes, and they said, "It is enough to sprinkle water instead of smearing your clothes." (Bukhari, Ghusl: 13; Muslim, Hayz: 4) This hadith is hasan authentic. In this way, only Muhammad b. We know from the narration of Ishaq. Scholars are of different opinion about the mezze smeared on the clothes, and some of them said "it should be washed". Shafii and Ishaq are of this opinion, while others think that "sprinkling water on it will be enough". b. Hanbel: “I hope sprinkling water will suffice.”
116-) Hemmâm b. According to the narration from Haris (radiyallahu anh), he said: A guest came to Aisha (radiyallahu anha); He was given a yellow duvet to sleep in. The guest, who slept with the quilt covered, had a seizure at night. He was ashamed to leave the quilt even though there was a trace of inflammation on it, and he returned it by washing it with water. Thereupon, Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said: “Why did he spoil our duvet by washing it? Just rubbing it with his fingers was enough. In such cases, I sometimes rubbed the clothes of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Nesai, Tahara: 188; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 82) This hadith is hasan authentic. The opinion of many of the Companions, followers and later scholars of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) is: "It is enough to rub it, it does not need to be washed". Es Sevri, Shafii, Ahmed, Ishaq are among them. Mansur, İbrahim, Hemmâm b. This hadith of Aisha was narrated from al-Harith like the narration of A'mash. Ma'shar narrates this hadith from Ibrahim, al-Aswad, and Aisha; the narration of A'mash is more authentic.
117-) It was narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha). “Aisha (radiyallahu anha) washed the semen that got on the clothes of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam).” (Nesai, Tahara: 187; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 81) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith of Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) “She washed the semen from the clothes of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)” is not contrary to the hadith of rubbing. Because even if rubbing is sufficient, the person may not like to see semen marks on his clothes. Ibn 'Abbas said, "Semen is a substance in place of mucus, it is sufficient to remove it with a kind of grass and cloth."
118-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) slept while he was junub and never touched water.” (Muslim, Hayz: 6; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 88)
119-) Hennad narrated a similar hadith from Waki, Sufyan and Abu Ishaq. Said b. This is the view of Musayyeb and others. On the other hand, it has been reported to us by many people that "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made ablution before going to sleep" through Evsed and Aisha. Hadith Abu Ishaq's narrations from Aswad are more authentic. This hadith is narrated by Abu Ishaq, Shu'ba, Thawri and others, and they are of the opinion that Abu Ishaq was wrong in conveying this hadith.
120-) It was narrated from Omar (radiyallahu anh). Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Can any of us sleep when he is junub?” They said, "Yes, if he makes wudu, he can sleep." (Bukhari, Ghusl: 25; Muslim, Hayz: 6) hadiths were also reported from Ammar, Aisha, Jabir, Abu Said and Umm Salama. This Omar hadith is the best and most authentic. The opinion of many of the notables of the Companions and Tabiun is according to this hadith. People like Sûfyan es Sevrî, İbn'ül Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq say: "When a junub person wants to sleep, he makes wudu and sleeps like that."
121-) It is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) that Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) met the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) while he was junub. In that case, I did not want to talk to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 80; Muslim, Hayz: 29) hadiths were also reported from Huzeyfe and Ibn Abbas. This hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan sahih. Many scholars do not see any harm in shaking hands with a junub person, and they do not see any harm in the sweat of menstruating women and junub people. The last word “Fenhanestü” means to withdraw.
122-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: Umm Sulaym, the daughter of Milhan, came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “O Allah's Messenger, Allah! He does not accept the disclosure of the right as disgraceful. If a woman sees something that requires a ghusl like a man in her dream, is it necessary to make a ghusl? I asked. They said, "Yes, if he sees semen (water), he should make a ghusl". Umm Salama, who narrated it, said: Umm Sulaym, you disgraced the women. (Muslim, Hayz: 7; Nasai, Tahara: 132) This hadith is hasan authentic. In general, the opinion of all fiqh scholars is that "If a woman has a rash and sees wetness, a ghusl is required". Sûfyan as-Sevri and Shafii are of this opinion. Also, hadiths were narrated from Umm Sulaym, Hawle, Aisha and Anas.
123-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “Sometimes, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to go to my bed and warm himself with me after he took the ghusl. I would hug him even though I had not made a ghusl.” (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 97; Bukhari, Gusul: 26) There is nothing wrong with the attribution of this hadith. Many of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and many of the scholars said: "It is okay for a man who has made ghusl to warm himself in the bed of his unwashed wife." Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq also hold this view.
124-) It was narrated from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Clean soil is one of the cleaning materials of Muslims, even if it cannot find water for ten years, it can be cleaned with soil. But when you find water, wash with it because that is better.” (Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 123; Nesâî, Ghusul: 26) one of his narrators, Mahmud: "Clean soil is the ablution water of a Muslim". In this regard, Abu Huraira, Abdullah b. Amr and Imran b. A hadith was also narrated from Husayn. This hadith was narrated by Khalid b. From Hazza, Abu Qalabe, Amr b. Bucdan and Abu Dharr have narrated this way by many people. Ayyub, on the other hand, narrates this hadith from Abu Kilabe, a son of Amir, whom he did not name, and Abu Dharr. The hadith is hasan authentic. The opinion of the jurists in general is "If a junub and menstruating person cannot find water, they make tayammum". Mas'ud; It is also narrated that he later returned from the view that tayammum is not possible for a junub who cannot find water. Sûfyan as-Sevri, Malik, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion. Muawiyah says in his narration: "Make wudu for every prayer until the time of menstruation comes". A hadith has also been narrated from Umm Salama on this subject. This hadith of Aisha (radiyallahu anha) is hasan authentic. This is the opinion of many scholars, among the companions and followers of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Sûfyan es Sevrî, Mâlik İbn'ül Mubarak and Shafi'i say: "A woman who sees the duration of menstrual blood too long, takes a bath when her menstrual days are over and performs ablution for each prayer."
125-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Fatima, the daughter of Abu Hubaysh, came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said: "O Messenger of Allah, I am a woman who is cleansed after menstruation, for this long period of time. Can I leave the prayers? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "He is not menstruating, it is blood coming from a vein due to a different disease. When the menstruation begins, stop praying, when it is over, wash the blood and perform the prayer”. (Bukhari, Hayz: 9; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 108) In the hadith he narrated, Muawiya says: Make wudu for every prayer until this time comes. Tirmidhi: A hadith has also been reported from Umm Salama on this subject. Tirmidhi: The hadith of Aisha that begins with "Fatima has come" is hasan authentic. This is the view of many scholars from the Companions and their followers. Sufyan es Sevri, Malik, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafi'i say: “If a woman's menstrual period exceeds the days she knows, she will perform ablution for each prayer on the days when she has passed.”
126-) Adıy b. According to the narration from Hatim's (radiy-Allâhu anh) grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about a woman who had apologetic blood: “He stops performing his prayers on the days of menstruation, of which he knows the number, and then performs ablution, performs prayers and fasts every time he takes a bath.” (Dârimî, Tahara: 98; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 128)
127-) Ali b. Hucr (radiyallahu anh) narrated the same hadith to us from Sharik. Only Sharik narrated this hadith from Abul Yaqzan. I asked about this hadith; In the hadith, Adiy b. It is said from Sabit's father, grandfather, what is the name of Adiyy's grandfather? Said. Muhammad did not know, and I said: Yahya b. Even though I said that Maîn says his name is "Dinar", he didn't pay attention to me. and Isaac says about those who see the blood of forgiveness; It is sufficient if it is washed every time for prayer. If one performs a ghusl and two prayers together, it is also permissible.
128-) According to a narration from Hamna bint Jahsh (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: I was menstruating more and more heavily than I used to, I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and I was going to get a fatwa about the situation. : “I am menstruating more than one day and very severely. It has prevented me from praying and fasting. What do you order me about this?” They said: "I recommend cotton to remove the blood." Then I said: "The blood is coming from the cotton as it is not enough", they said: "Use a tie that prevents the blood from flowing and dispersing". When I say too much blood so that even these are not enough; They said, "Use a dress that will protect them all". When Hamne said that the blood is flowing so much that even these are not enough, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I will show you two ways, whichever you do is enough for you. If you can do both, that's your job. The incident you are describing is a mistake made by the devil to keep you away from worship. By referencing the menstruation day to Allah's knowledge, count six or seven days, then when you realize that the bather has been cleaned, pray and fast for twenty-four or twenty-three days and the ghusl is sufficient for you. Just do it just like other women do when they menstruate and get cleansed.” If you are able to delay the noon prayer and bring the afternoon prayer forward, try to perform two prayers at once with a single ghusl. Again, if possible, delay the evening and bring forward the isha and perform two prayers together with a ghusl, and perform the morning prayer with a ghusl. hold it too, if you can afford it, do it like that. This aspect is more pleasing to me of the two ways I have described. (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 109; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 117) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Amr er Rakki, İbn'ü Cüreyc and Şerîk, Abdullah b. Muhammed b. Akil, Ibrahim b. Muhammed b. They narrate from Talha and his uncle Imran and his mother Hamna. But Ibn Jurayc said, “Umar b. Talha", whereas the correct one is "Imran b. Talha". I asked about this hadith and he said it is hasan authentic. Again, Ahmad b. Hanbal also says that this hadith is hasan authentic. and Ishaq say the following about the blood of apology: If the woman who has an excuse knows the duration of the menstrual cycle from the beginning and end of the blood, the beginning of the menstruation is black and the end is yellow, in which case the fatwa is given according to the hadith of Fatima, the daughter of Abu Hubaysh. If a woman with an excuse knows the beginning and the end of her menstruation days, she stops her prayers during those days, then she takes a bath and performs ablution for each prayer. If the blood continues and the menstruation days are not known, if the blood does not know the beginning and the end due to the severity of the blood, then a fatwa is given according to the hadith of Hamna, the daughter of Jahş. This is what Abu Ubayd says. He says: If the apology continues and this state continues, he stops praying between the first beginning of his menstruation and fifteen days. If he is cleansed in fifteen days or before, that period is his menstruation days. If he sees blood for more than fifteen days, he misses the prayer of the last fourteen days and has left the prayer of the day and night, which is the minimum of the menstrual period. Scholars have put forward different opinions about the less and most of the menstrual period. Some said the minimum was three days, the most ten days. Such is the view of Sufyan as-Sevri and the people of Kufa. We have been told that Ibn al-Mubarak was of both this view and another. Ata b. Some scholars with ebî Rebah say that the minimum period of menstruation is one day, one night and the maximum is fifteen days. Malik, Evzai, Shafii, Ahmed, Ishaq and Abu Ubeyde also hold this view.
129-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Umm Habiba, the daughter of Jahsh, to find a solution to her problem: "I am menstruating and I cannot get clean, should I stop my prayers?" He asked, then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "No, it is blood coming from the vein due to a different disease. When the day is over, perform ghusl and prayers." After that, Umm Habiba would bathe for each prayer. (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 109; Muslim, Hayz: 14) says: Lays said: Ibn Shihab, one of the narrators of the hadith: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not order washing for every prayer, the woman did it on her own. This hadith was narrated from Aisha in the same way through Zuhri, Amre. Some scholars have said that a person with the blood of an apology should wash for every prayer. Zuhri narrates this hadith from Urwa, Amre and Aisha.
130-) According to the narration from Muâze (radiy-Allâhu anha), a woman asked Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) “Will we make up the prayers we spend during our menstruation days?” Thereupon, Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) said to that woman, “Are you one of those people in Harura who do not accept other rules than the Qur'an? At the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) we were not asked to make up the prayers of menstruating women." (Bukhari, Hayz: 21; Muslim, Hayz: 15) This hadith is hasan authentic. The hadith in the form of "he does not make up for his prayers" was also reported from Aisha (radiyallahu anha) through different channels. This is the opinion of the majority; They are in agreement with the view that "A menstruating person makes up for his fast but does not make up for his prayers".
131-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A junub and menstruating person should not recite anything from the Qur'an” (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 105; Abu Dawud, Tahara: 90; Muwatta, Qur'an: 15) hadiths were also narrated from Ali. This Ibn 'Umar's hadith was only reported by Ismail b. Ayyaş, Musa b. We know through Ukbe, Nafi'. The majority of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), the Tabi'un, and the scholars who came after him are of this opinion. Sufyan es Sevri, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq say: "A junub and menstruating person should not recite anything from the Qur'an, but can recite a part or parts of a verse, as well as tasbih (Subhanallah) and tehlil (La ilaha illallah). It's okay for them to say things like " Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail, he was saying: One of the narrators of the hadith, Ismail b. Ayyaş cites unwelcome (munkar) narrations from the men of the Hejaz and Iraq regions, thus saying that it is not very reliable, but İsmail b. By saying that this narration of Ayyaş is from the people of the Damascus region, he says that he trusts this hadith. b. Hanbal says: Ismail b. The drunkard is stronger than the person called "Bakıyye" because "Bakıyya" has unpleasant (munkar) narrations from reliable people. Ahmed b. Hasan relayed it to me and said: Ahmad b. I heard it from Hanbel himself.
132-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “When I was menstruating, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would order me to wear menstruating clothes and he would be with me in bed.” (Bukhari, Hayz: 22; Muslim, Hayz: 2) There are also narrations from Umm Salama and Maymuna on this subject. This hadith of Aisha is hasan sahih. Many of the Companions and followers of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) hold this view, and Shafii, Ahmad and Ishaq are also of this view.
133-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Sa'd (radiy-Allâhu anh), I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the situation of eating with a menstruating woman, and he said: “With her”. (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 125; Muslim, Hayz: 3) There are also narrations from Aisha and Enes on this subject. This is Abdullah b. The hadith of Sa'd is hasan garib. This is the opinion of the majority of scholars, and there is no harm in having a meal with a menstruating person. There are different opinions due to the excess water from the water bowl in which the menstruating woman takes ablution. Some allowed it, while others did not.
134-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) once said to me, “Will you buy me the mat on which I used to pray in the mosque? I also said that I am menstruating.” Then he said: “Menstruation is not in your hands, or it is not in your control whether or not you are menstruating.” (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 120; Bukhari, Hayz: 11) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar and Abu Huraira on this subject. This hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. This is the opinion of most of the scholars; It is okay for a menstruating person to take something from the mosque.
135-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If a man has sexual intercourse with his menstruating wife, or approaches his wife from behind or applies to a magician to transfer his affairs, Muhammad (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) He would have blasphemed the religion that was revealed to him.” (Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 122; Dârimî, Tahara: 107) We know this hadith only from the narration of Hakim el Esrem, Abu Temime el Hüceymi from Abu Huraira. According to scholars, this hadith expresses the magnitude of the crime. In the 136th and 137th hadiths, it is ordered to give one or half a dinar alms, because this does not necessitate disbelief, but to explain the magnitude of the crime. Muhammad found this hadith weak in terms of its attribution. Ebû Temime el Hüceymî's name is Tarîf b. He is Mucalid.
136-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever approaches his wife for sexual intercourse while she is menstruating should give half a dinar in charity." (Nesai, Hayz: 9; İbn Mâce, Tahra: 123)
137-) Again, according to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If the blood is red, one dinar should be given to charity if it is yellowish.” (Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 123; Dârimî, Tahara: 112) The hadith about approaching a menstruating woman for sexual intercourse has been narrated both as merfu and mewkuf. The opinion of scholars is according to this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Ibnul Mubarak; He says, "He asks for forgiveness from his Lord, and there is no need for kaffarah". It is narrated that some of the Tabi'un are in the opinion of Ibn al-Mubarak. Many scholars and Said b. Jubayr, Ibrahim en Nehai are among them.
138-) According to the narration from Asma (radiy-Allâhu anha), the daughter of Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh), a woman asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the menstrual blood smeared on his clothes, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked about it. They said: "Rub it, dig it up, then wash it with water and pray with it." (Bukhari, Hayz: 10; Muslim, Hayz: 13) A hadith was also reported from Abu Huraira and Umm Qays bint Mihsan on this subject. This hadith of Asma about washing the menstrual blood is hasan authentic. Scholars have put forward different opinions about the situation of a person who has menstruation blood on his clothes and prays without washing it. Some scholars from the Tabi'un say: "If the blood is equal to the amount of dirham, he will repeat his prayer." Some of them say: "If it is larger than a dirham, he will repeat his prayer". Sufyan es Sevrî and Ibn'ul Mubarak are among them. Some scholars of Tabin and others are of the opinion that even if the blood is more than a dirham, it is not necessary to repeat the prayer. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Being more meticulous in this regard, he says: "Even if it is less than the amount of dirham, it must be washed."
139-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “During the time of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), a postpartum woman would sit at home without praying for forty days, and we would apply the Yemen zagferan plant on our faces to remove the stains on her face.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 119; Ibn Majah, Tahara 128) This hadith is strange. We know this hadith only from the way of Abu Sahl's Müsse el Ezdiyya and Umm Salama. Abu Sahl's name is “Kashir b. It is Ziyad. b. Ismail says: Ali b. Abdul A'la and Abu Sahl are reliable people. Muhammad knows this hadith only from the narration of Abu Sahl. The followers of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and scholars of the following periods have agreed that “the puerperant should leave the prayer for forty days, but if it is cleaned before this period, it is necessary to wash and pray. If blood is seen after forty days, the majority of scholars are of the opinion that "he does not abandon prayer". The majority of scholars hold this view. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. Hasen al-Basrî said that if he is not cleaned up to fifty days, he can leave his prayer even for fifty days, Ata b. Abi Rebah and Sha'bi increased this period to "sixty days".
140-) It is narrated from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to go around his women for sexual intercourse with one bathing.” (Bukhari, Ghusl: 12; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 10) A hadith has been quoted from Abu Rafi on this subject. This hadith of Anas (radiyallahu anh) is hasan authentic. This is the view of many scholars: Hasen al-Basri is one of them, he says, "There is no harm in returning to sexual intercourse without making wudu." b. Yusuf narrates this hadith from Sufyan, Abu Urwa, Abul Khattab and Anas. Urwa's name is Ma'mar b. He is Rashid. The name of Ebû'l Hattâb is Qatade b. It is Diame. Some of these hadiths from Muhammad b. Yusuf, Sufyan, Ibn Abi Urwa, they narrated that this is wrong, the correct way is "Abu Urwa".
141-) According to what has been narrated to us from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If one of you has sexual intercourse with his wife and then wants to repeat it, let him perform ablution between the two of them.” (Muslim, Hayz: 6; Nasai, Tahara: 169) hadiths were also narrated from Omar on the subject. The hadith of Abu Said is hasan sahih. Umar b. Khattab is of this opinion. Many of his men say: "If a man is going to have sexual intercourse again after getting close to his wife, he must perform ablution first." Mutawakkil's name is Ali b. He is David. The name of Abu Said al-Khudri is Sa'd b. Malik b. It is Sinan.
142-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Erkam (radiy-Allâhu anh): The iqamat was brought for prayer, Abdullah b. Erkam took a man by the hand and led him to the mihrab to become the imam and said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: "If a person needs to go to the toilet while he is praying, first go to the toilet." (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 43; İbn Mâce, Tahara: 114) It was also narrated from Aisha, Abu Huraira, Sevban and Abu Umama on this subject. This is Abdullah b. The hadith of Arkam is hasan sound. Imam-i Malik, Yahya b. Said al-Kattan and many hadith memorizers like Hisham b. Urwa, his father and Abdullah b. Thus, they conveyed this hadith from Arkam to us. Again, this hadith was written by Wuheyb and others by Hisham b. Through Urwa, his father and someone else, Abdullah b. It was narrated from Arkam. Many of the Companions and followers of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) hold this view. Although Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion, they say: "A person who needs ablution, whether small or large, does not start the prayer, and if he feels such a need when he starts prayer, he does not leave the prayer unless he is completely busy" section scholars: There is no problem as long as they do not keep busy”.
143-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Avf's concubine who bore a child, she said: I asked Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha): "I am someone who stretches out my skirt and walks on dirty places, how will my skirt be cleaned?" He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The clean places that come after the dirty place will clean that skirt". (Ibn Maje, Tahara: 79) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Mas'ud that "We would be together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and we would not do a separate cleaning due to stepping on dirty places or getting our skirts dirty". This is the opinion of more than one scientist, and they say: Whoever steps on a dirty ground does not need to wash his feet, but if the dirt becomes wet, the contaminated part is washed. Abdullah b. Mubarak reported this hadith from Malik b. Enes, Muhammed b. Umara, Muhammed b. Ibrahim, Hud b. Abdurrahman b. It is narrated by Umm Salama from Avf's child-bearing concubine. There is an error in what has been said, as follows; Abdurrahman b. It should be said from Avf's child-bearing concubine and Umm Salama.
144-) Ammar b. According to a narration from Yasir (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered him to perform tayammum, and tayammum consists of wiping the face and both hands with earth.” (Bukhari, Tayammum: 1; Nesai, Tayammum: 26) There are also narrations from Aisha and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Ammar is hasan authentic. This hadith was also narrated by means other than Ammar. This is the view of many of the Companions of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Like Ali, Ammar, Ibn Abbas, and many of his followers, Sha'bi, Ata and Makhul are of the same opinion and say, "Tayammum consists of hitting the ground for the hands and face". Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Omar, Jabir, Ibrahim, Hasan and some scholars said, “Tayammum consists of one stroke each to wipe the face and hands.” Sûfyan as-Sevri, Malik, Ibn al-Mubarak and Shafii are of the same opinion. Ammar's hadith of tayammum for the face and hands has been narrated in several ways. It is also reported that he said, "When we were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), we used to convey wiping up to the shoulders and armpits." Some hadithists from Ammar; When the hadith "seats and shoulders" is reported, it is noted that the hadith "face and hands" is weak. b. Abraham b. Mahled al-Haznali says: The hadith of Ammar, which states that tayammum "consists of wiping the face and hands", is hasan sound. The hadith "up to the shoulders and armpits" is not contrary to the previous hadith. Because Ammar does not say in the hadith of tayammum that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered up to the shoulders and armpits. He says we just did it. Finally, when he asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he ordered wiping the face and hands, and he decided to do so. Abu Zur'a Ubeydullah b. He says I heard Abdilkerim say: I did not see anyone else in Basra other than these three people with a strong memory. Ali b. al-Madinî, İbnus Şazekûnî and Amr b. Ali El Fellas. He says to Abu Zur: Affan b. Muslim Amr b. He narrated hadith from Ali El Fellas.
145-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he was asked about tayammum, and he replied: When talking about wudu in the Book of Allah, he said, “Wash your faces and your arms up to your elbows.” He also said about tayammum: "Wipe your face and hands". He also says about the thief: "Cut off the hands of the stealing man and woman." The Sunnah of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in cutting hands is "cutting the hands from the wrists". In tayammum, "two hands and face" are anointed. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan strange and sound.
146-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to make us recite the Qur'an in every situation as long as we were not junub.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 90; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 105; Muwatta, Qur'an: 2; Bukhari, Vudu' 38) (radiyallahu anh)'s hadith is hasan authentic. Many of the Companions and followers of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) hold this view and say: "The Qur'an is read without wudu, but those who are clean in the Mushaf should read it by touching it." Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion.
147-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was sitting in the mosque, a Bedouin entered the mosque and prayed when he finished his prayer: “O Allah, have mercy on me and Muhammad, have mercy on anyone with us. don't be sorry," he prayed. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "You narrowed something that was wide", and soon that person began to pee in the mosque. The Companions rushed to block that man. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to pour a bucket of water over the place where he urinated, and said, "You, as the Ummah of Islam, have been sent as facilitators, not difficult." (Bukhari, Voodoo: 63; Ibn Majah, Tahara: 78)
148-) Yahya b. Said narrated a similar hadith from Anas (radiyallahu anh). (Bukhari, Voodoo: 63; Ibn Mâce, Tahara: 79) Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Mas'ud, Ibn Abbas and Wasile, and Ibn al-Aska. This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars have practiced according to this hadith. Like Ahmad and Ishaq, Yunus reported this hadith from Zuhri to Ubeydullah b. It is narrated from Abdullah and Abu Huraira.
149-) According to what was reported from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Jibril (alayhis salam) became imam for me twice near the Ka'ba. For the first time, the noon prayer when the sun slips to the west and its shadow is as big as a clog collar, then the afternoon prayer when the shadow of everything is its own height; then the evening prayer when the sun sets and the fasting person breaks his fast; He led the night prayer when the dawn was gone, and the morning prayer when the light had just started and eating and drinking was forbidden for the fasting person. time: the noon prayer when the shadow of everything is as big as its own height, that is, when he led the afternoon prayer in the previous time; then the afternoon prayer when the shadow of everything becomes twice its own; He offered the evening prayer at its previous time, then the night prayer when one-third of the night had passed, and then the morning prayer when it was dark. Then he turned to me and said: O Muhammad, the width and freedom of prayer between these two times is like the times given to the prophets before you, and it has been possible for you to pray between these two times." (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 2; Buhârî, Mevâkît: 1) In this regard, Abu Huraira, Burayde, Abu Musa, Abu Mes'ud El Ensari, Abu Said, Câbir, Amr b. Hadith was also narrated from Hazm, Bara and Anas (radiyallahu anh).
150-) According to what was narrated from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Jibril became an imam for me…” By narrating the hadith with the same meaning, Ibn Abbas does not only say the sentence “Yesterday in the afternoon”. (Bukhari, Mevâkît: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 2) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. says: The hadith of Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh) about prayer times is the most authentic. Jabir's hadith about prayer times is similar to Ata b. Ebi Rebah, Amr b. Dinar and Abu'z Zubayr, Vehb b. He quoted Keysan's narration from Jabir.
151-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are first and last times for prayer times. The first time of the noon prayer starts from the shift of the sun to the west until the beginning of the afternoon prayer, the first time of the afternoon prayer starts from the beginning of this time and the end is when the sun turns yellow, the first time of the evening prayer is when the sun sets and the end is when the red disappears on the horizon, the first time of the isha prayer starts when the redness on the horizon disappears and at night. up to half. The first time of the morning prayer is from the time of dawn until the time the sun rises.” (Musnad: 6875) Abdullah b. He also narrated hadith from Amr. I heard from Muhammad, he said: A'mash's narration from Mujahid about prayer times Muhammad b. It is more authentic than the narration of Fudayl from A'mash. Hennad narrated to us hadiths from Abu Usama, Abu Ishaq al-Fazari, A'mash and Mujahid. Muhammad b. Fudayl narrated.
152-) Süleyman b. According to the narration from Burayda's father, a man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and asked him about prayer times. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Stay with us and you will learn". When it was time for the prayer, he ordered Bilal to call the adhan when the fajr rose, then he ordered again, when the sun shifted to the west, he recited the noon prayer and prayed the noon prayer, then he ordered the adhan to be read, and the afternoon prayer when the sun was white and high, then when the sun disappeared in the west, he ordered the adhan to be called for the evening prayer, then When the red on the horizon disappeared, he ordered the adhan for the night prayer. The next day, he again ordered Bilal, delaying the morning prayer until it was dark, then waiting for the coolness of the afternoon to cool the noon, then delaying the afternoon until the last brightness of the sun, then he ordered the evening prayer at the time of the disappearance of the dawn, then ordered the night prayer for the night before the night prayer and the night prayer was performed. Then the man who asked about the prayer times said where is it, and that man said it is mine. "The times of the prayers are between these two times," he said. (Ibn Majah, Namaz: 1; Nesai, Mevâkît: 1) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. Shu'ba reported this hadith from Alkame b. He narrated a hadith from Mirsed.
153-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Some women would perform the morning prayer together with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and disperse. Ansari says: When women wore their clothes and passed by, they were not recognized because of the twilight. Qutayba said: "Covered in his sheets". (Bukhari, Mevâkît: 28; İbn Mâce, Salat: 2) hadiths were also reported from İbn Ömer, Anas, Kayle binti Mahreme. This hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. Zuhri narrates this hadith through Urwa and Aisha. Many of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and some people, including Abu Bakr and Umar, are of course in this direction. Ahmad and Ishaq are of the same opinion and consider it mustahab to "perform the morning prayer in the twilight".
154-) Rafi' b. According to a narration from Hadic (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Perform the morning prayer at dawn, the reward of performing it at that moment is greater.” (Nesâî, Mevâkît: 1; İbn Mâce, Salat: 2) This hadith was published by Şu'be ve Sevrî, Muhammed b. They narrated from Ishaq. Muhammed b. Likewise, Aclan, Âsım b. Umar b. He narrates from Qatada. Also, hadiths were narrated from Abu Barza al-Aslemi, Jabir and Bilal on this subject. Many scholars, among the companions and followers of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), are of the opinion that "the morning prayer should be performed at dawn". This is the view in Sufyan as-Sevri. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq say: Dawn (Isfar) means the clear appearance of light, not delaying the prayer.
155-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “I did not see anyone who performed the noon prayer earlier than the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abu Bakr and Umar.” (Nesâî, Mevâkît: 2; İbn Mâce, Salat: 2) On this subject, Câbir b. Abdillah, Habbab, Abu Barza, Ibn Mas'ud, Zayd b. Sabit, Enes and Câbir b. A hadith was also narrated from Samura. This hadith of Aisha is hasan. This is the view preferred by the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the scholars of the Tabi'un period. Ali b. al Medînî, Yahya b. He quotes Said as follows: Hakîm b. He talked back and forth because of the hadith of Jubayr, which was narrated by Ibn Mas'ud about "Whoever asks people for something they do not need...". He says: Sufyan and Zaide, from this person, are not considered a very objectionable person because they also quote hadiths. says: About the early noon prayer, Hakim b. From Cübeyr, Said b. Jubayr and Hz. Aisha narrated hadith.
156-) Enes b. It was narrated from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the noon prayer when the sun started to shift to the west.” (Nesai, Mevâkît: 4; İbn Mâce, Salat: 3) This hadith is authentic. The best hadith in this regard is the one narrated by Jabir.
157-) According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Delay the noon prayer on very hot days, because the heat is intense because of the boiling of Hell.” (Bukhari, Mevâkît: 9: Nesâî, Mevâkît: 5) Ebû Said, Ebû Zerr, İbn Ömer, Muğre, Kâsım b. Hadith was also narrated from Safwan's father, Abu Musa, Ibn Abbas and Anas. Even if a hadith is narrated on this subject through Umar, it is not authentic. This hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Some of the scholars preferred to delay the noon prayer in severe heat. This is the view of Mubarak, Ahmed and Ishaq. He says: Delaying the noon prayer until the weather cools is for the masjids where the congregation will come from far away. It is more appropriate for me not to delay the prayer for those who pray by themselves or in the neighborhood mosque. It is better and suitable for sunnah to delay the noon prayer in severe heat. There is a meaning contrary to Shafii's view that "it is a license for those who come from afar" from Abu Dharr's hadith. Because Abu Dharr says in the hadith: "Bilal wanted to call the adhan for the noon prayer, but the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said delay it so that the air will cool a little." If the issue was the opinion of Shafi'i, there would be no point in delaying the noon prayer until the weather cools down, because they were all together and they did not need to go long distances to go to prayer.
158-) It is narrated from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was with Bilal on a journey. When Bilal wanted to bring an iqamat for prayer, he said: "Wait a little while the air cools". They said, "Wait for some coolness for the noon prayer." Abu Dharr says: Finally, we started to see the shadows of the hills, then he brought the iqama and prayed and said: “The intensity of the heat is due to the roar of Hell. Wait for the air to cool in the heat for the noon prayer.” (Bukhari, Mawaqit: 10; Abu Dawud, Salat: 4) This hadith is hasan authentic.
159-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform the afternoon prayer before the sun rose from Aisha's room." (Bukhari, Mevâkît: 12; Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 5) Enes, Ebû Erva, Câbir and Rafi' b. Hadith was also narrated from hadith. Another hadith about delaying the afternoon prayer was reported from Rafi, but it is not valid. This hadith of Aisha is hasan sahih. Some scholars of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) hold this view. Umar, Abdullah b. Mes'd, Aisha and Enes are among them. Some scholars from Tabin, on the other hand, did not tolerate delaying the afternoon prayer by choosing to perform it early. Abdullah b. Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion.
160-) Ala b. It is narrated from Abdurrahman (radiyallahu anh): One day, after performing the noon prayer, he went to Enes's (radiyallahu anh) house in Basra. He said, "The house of Anas (radiyallahu anh) was next to the mosque, it's time for the afternoon prayer, and pray." We got up and prayed, and when we finished our prayer, Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: “Prayer performed late is the prayer of a hypocrite. He sits and waits until the sunset approaches and the sun enters between the two horns of Satan, then he prays four rak'ats as a bird pecks a bait, and remembers Allah a little by reciting little." (Nesai, Mevâkît: 7; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 5) This hadith is hasan authentic.
161-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha), she said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to offer the noon prayer earlier than you, but you pray the afternoon prayer earlier than him." (Musnad: 25283) hadith İsmail b. It was narrated similarly from Ulayya Ibn Jurayj, Ibn Abi Mulayka and Umm Salama.
162-) Among the notes I wrote, Ali b. Hucr, İsmail b. Ibrahim narrated to us from Ibn Jurayc.
163-) Bishr b. Muâz al-Basrî tells us this hadith by İsmail b. He quoted it from Ulayya and Ibn Jurayc, which is more authentic.
164-) Salama b. According to the narration from Ekwa' (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform the evening prayer when the sun was setting and it was hidden by the curtain of the horizon.” (Ibn Mâce, Salat: 7; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 6) on the subject, Câbir es Sunabihî, Zayd b. Halid, Enes, Rafi' b. Hadîç, Abu Ayyub, Umm Habibe, Abbas b. A hadith was also narrated from Abdulmuttalib and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Abbas has been narrated as mawkuf, and it is the most authentic one. Because; es Sunabihi did not hear from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He is only Abu Bakr's friend. Salama b. This hadith of Ekwan is hasan authentic. This is the view of many scholars, among the Companions and followers of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). That is, "They did not tolerate delaying the evening prayer by choosing to hasten it." Some scholars even say: “There is only one time to pray for the evening prayer.” They adopted this view by respecting the time in the prayer that Jibril led the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). This is the view of Ibn al-Mubarak and Shafi'i.
165-) Numân b. According to the narration from Bashir (radiyallahu anh), he said: “I know the time of this night prayer better than anyone else. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) used to perform the night prayer when the moon set for three days. .
166-) Abu Bakr Muhammad b. Ebân (radiy-Allâhu anh) told us the same hadith from Abdurrahman b. He narrated it from Mahdi and Abu Avane with the same deed. This hadith of Hushaym is derived from Bishr's father, Habib b. From Sâlim, Numân b. He narrates from Bashir and in this narration, “Bashir b. The hadith of Abu Avana, who did not say "the Thabit", is more authentic. Because Yazid b. Harun narrated from Shu'ba from Bishr's father exactly as Abu Avane had narrated.
167-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If it were not for my ummah, I would order them to delay the night prayer until one third or half of the night had passed." (Ibn Majah, Salat: 8) In this regard, Jabir b. Samura, Câbir b. Abdillah, Abu Barza, Ibn Abbas, Abu Said al-Hudri, Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Khalid and Ibn Umar. This hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan sahih. Most of the scholars and companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) are in favor of late night prayers. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
168-) According to the narration from Abu Barza (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not like to sleep before Isha and talk after Isha.” (İbn Mâce, Salat: 12) Aisha, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Mas'ud and Anas. The hadith of Abu Barza is hasan authentic. Most of the scholars did not welcome sleeping before Isha and talking after Isha, some of them allowed it. b. Mubarak: Many hadiths state that this issue is makruh. Some scholars have also allowed to sleep before Isha in Ramadan. b. Salame's name is Ebul Minhâl er Riyahi.
169-) Umar b. According to the narration from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to talk at night on an issue that concerns Muslims, and I would be with them.” (Ibn Majah, Salat: 12) Abdullah b. Amr, Evs b. Huzeyfe and Imran b. A hadith was also narrated from Husayn. This Omar hadith is hasan. This hadith is Hasan b. Ubeydullah is reported in a long hadith from Ibrahim, Alkame, a man from the Cuf tribe named Qays or the son of Qays. The followers of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and the scholars who came after him had different views on this issue. Some of them did not welcome sitting and talking after the night prayer, while others gave permission when necessary, and in most hadiths, permission was given if there was a religious need. There is a narration from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that "The prohibition of speaking at night is for those who have performed prayers and for travelers".
170-) It was narrated from Umm Farwa (radiy-Allâhu anha) that she was one of those who pledged allegiance to the Prophet. She said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked: "Which of your deeds is more valuable?" They said, "It is a prayer performed before its time". (Abu Dawud, Salat: 9)
171-) Ali b. According to what is reported from Abu Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to him: “O Ali, do not delay three things; The prayer whose time has come, the funeral prepared, and the marriage of single people when you find an equal.” (Musnad: 1475) This hadith is garib hasan.
172-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Performing the prayer at the first time requires the consent of Allah, and performing it at the last time is a reason for forgiveness." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. A similar hadith was reported from Ibn Abbas. On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Ali, Ibn Omar, Aisha, and Ibn Mas'ud. This hadith of Umm Farwa was only reported by Abdullah b. It is narrated from Omar al-Umari. This person was not considered very strong in the eyes of hadith scholars and was mentioned about him. He is the right person, but Yahya b. It is mentioned in the direction of Said's memory.
173-) According to the narration from Amr al-Shaybani (radiyallahu anh), a man asked Ibn Mas'ud, "Which deed is more valuable?" Ibn Mas'ud said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about this, and he said: "Performing the prayers on time." I said, "O Messenger of Allah," I said, "Being good to your parents." they ordered. (Bukhari, Mavakît: 5; Nesâî, Mavakît: 51) This hadith is hasan authentic. Mes'udi, Shu'ba, Suleiman (Abu Ishaq) Shaybani and others reported this hadith from al-Walid b. They narrated from Ayzar.
174-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) reported that she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not perform any prayer twice in its last time until the end of his life.” (Musnad: 23473) This hadith is hasan garib and its ticker is not absolute. It is more valuable to perform the prayer at its first time. The reason why the first time is valuable is because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) preferred it, too, because they used to perform the prayers at the first time. This statement of Shafi'i has been transmitted to us by Ebul Walid al-Makki.
175-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A person who performs the afternoon prayer is as if he had lost his family and property.” (Bukhari, Mevâkît: 16; Nesâî, Mesâcid: 18) Bureyde and Nevfel b. Hadith was also narrated from Muawiya. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. Zuhri narrated this hadith exactly from Salim, his father and Ibn Umar.
176-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “O Abu Dharr! Some administrators after me will almost kill the next prayer by delaying the next prayer, you pray at the first time. If you pray with them even if it is a normal time, it will be a supererogatory prayer for you, if you do not pray with them, you will have prayed your own prayer." (Muslim, Mesacid: 41; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 10) Abdullah b. Mes'ud and Ubade b. A hadith was also narrated from as-Samit. This hadith of Abu Dharr is hasan. This is the view of many of his men. Even if the administrators bring the prayer, the person should perform the prayer on time and then repeat it. According to the majority of scholars, the first prayer is the obligatory prayer. The name of Ebû Imrân al Cevnî is “Abdülmelik b. Habib".
177-) According to what is reported from Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: They asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about praying while asleep. The fault is not to keep awake. If any of you falls asleep or forgets, let him pray when he remembers." (Nesâî, Mevâkît: 53; İbn Mâce, Salat: 10) on the subject, İbn Mes'ûd, Ebû Meryem, Imran b. Husayn, Cubeyr b. Mut'ım, Ebû Cühayfe, Ebû Said, Amr b. A hadith is also narrated from the son of the brother of the Negus named Zû Mihber, who is called Ümeyye ed Damri in Zû Mihmer. The hadith of Abu Qatada is hasan authentic. Scholars have different opinions about a person who performs his prayer while asleep or forgetting, and then remembers it at the time of another prayer or at sunrise or sunset. Some of them say: "He prays when he remembers, even when the sun is rising or setting." This is the view of Ahmad, Ishaq, Shafi'i and Malik. Some of them say: "He does not perform until the sun rises or sets, but does it after that".
178-) According to what is narrated from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person has forgotten his prayer, let him perform it as soon as he remembers it.” (Nesâî, Mevâkît: 53; Ibn Mâce, Salat: 10) hadiths were also reported from Samura and Abu Qatada. This Anas hadith is hasan authentic. b. It is reported from Abi Talib that he said: “Whenever he remembers the prayer he had performed, he performs it in a timely manner.” Shafii, Ahmed b. This is the view of Hanbal and Ishaq. It is narrated from Bekre that Abu Bakr fell asleep in the afternoon, woke up as the sun was setting and prayed after the sun went down. they are of this opinion. We hadith scholars are of the opinion of Ali (radiyallahu anh).
179-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “On the day of the Battle of the Trench, they prevented the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) from performing the four daily prayers on time. After the night had advanced a lot, he ordered Bilal, and he recited the adhan, then brought the iqama and offered the noon prayer. Then the iqama was brought and the afternoon prayer was performed. Then the iqama was brought in the evening, and then he performed the night prayer.” (Nesai, Mevâkît: 55) hadiths were also narrated from Abu Said and Jabir. Abdullah b. The evidence of this hadith by Mas'ud is not harmful, however, Abu Ubeyde, Abdullah b. He did not hear this hadith from Mas'ud. Scholars have acted according to this hadith regarding the prayers that are passed through forgetfulness and forgetfulness. Even if he does it without bringing an Iqamah, it is enough. Shafii is of this opinion.
180-) Jabir b. It is narrated from Abdillah (radiyallahu anh): On the day of the trench, Umar b. Hattab began to insult the unbelievers of Quraysh and said: "The sun was almost going to set before the afternoon prayer was performed, so the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "By Allah, I have not performed the afternoon prayer yet." Jabir says: After that, we went down to the Buthan valley and the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) performed ablution and we performed ablution. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed the afternoon prayer and then the evening prayer after sunset. (Nesai, Mevâkît: 53; İbn Mâce, Salat: 6) This hadith is hasan authentic.
181-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The middle prayer is the afternoon prayer.” (Nasai, Mawaqit: 55; Ibn Majah, Salat: 6) This hadith is hasan.
182-) Samura b. According to what is narrated from Jundub (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The middle prayer is the afternoon prayer." (Nesai, Mevâkît: 55; İbn Mâce, Salat: 14) Ali, Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Zayd b. Sabit, Aisha, Hafsa, Abu Huraira, Abu Hashim b. A hadith was also narrated from Utba. Muhammad says: Ali b. Abdullah says: “Hasan's son, Samura b. This hadith he narrated from Jundub is authentic. Hasan heard a hadith from Samura. He says that the hadith of Samura is hasan authentic. This is the view of many scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and later periods. Zayd b. Thabit and Aisha say, "The middle prayer is the noon prayer." Abbas and Ibn Omar say: "The middle prayer is the morning prayer." Ebû Musa, Muhammed b. Müsenna, Quraysh b. From Enes, from Habib b. According to the narration from Shaheed, Habib says: Muhammad b. Sirin ask me Hasan, from whom did he hear the Aqiqa hadith? When I asked Samura b. He said he heard it from Cündüp. Muhammed b. As Ismail informs us, Ali b. Abdullah al Medini, Kureş b. He narrated this hadith from Anas. b. Ismail says, quoting from Ali: It is true that Hasan heard it from Semure, and he accepts this hadith as evidence.
183-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard from many people from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) that my favorite among them was Umar b. In Khattab, they used to say: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to forbid us from praying after the morning prayer until the sun rose and again after the afternoon prayer until the sun went down." (Bukhari, Mevâkît: 31; Nesâî, Mevâkît: 35) Ali, İbn Mes'ûd, Ukbe b. Amir and Abu Huraira, Ibn Omar, Samura b. Cündüb, Abdullah b. Amr, Muâz, Ibn Afra and Sunabihi (he did not hear from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) himself.) Salama b. al Ekvâ', Zayd b. Sabit, Aisha, Ka'b b. Murre, Abu Umama, Amr b. Abese, Ya'la b. A hadith was also narrated from Umayya and Muawiya. This hadith narrated by Ibn Abbas from Umar is hasan authentic. This is the view of most of the Companions of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and later fiqh scholars. That is, they did not welcome praying until the sun rises after the morning prayer and until the sun sets after the afternoon prayer. However, there is no harm in performing the missed prayers due to forgetfulness and sleep. Ali b. al Medînî, Yahya b. Translating it from Shu'ba through Said, he says: Qatada heard only three hadiths from Abu'l Aliya. 1- The hadith of Umar, that he forbade performing the morning prayer until the sun came up and from the afternoon until the sunset. 2- The hadith of Ibn Abbas: “It does not suit anyone to say that I am better than Metta's son Yunus.” 3- There are three types of qadi… hadith.
184-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The only reason why the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed after the afternoon was two rak'ahs, which he had to perform in the afternoon because of his busyness after a goods arrived. He never prayed two rak'ahs." (It was narrated by Tirmidhi) hadiths were also reported from Aisha, Umm Salama, Maymuna and Abu Musa. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. More than one person has told us that (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) prayed two rak'ahs after the afternoon prayer. These narrations contradict the narration that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade performing prayers after the afternoon until the sun went down. The narration of Abbas "he did not perform that prayer again" is more valid. A similar hadith of Ibn Abbas is Zayd b. It was reported from Sabit. There are different narrations from Aisha (radiyallahu anha) on this subject. One of them is as follows: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered Aisha after the afternoon prayer, he would pray two rak'ahs." A narration tells us, through Umm Salama, that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade prayers after the afternoon prayer until the sun sets and after the morning prayer until the sun rises. the majority of his men; They agreed that it is not pleasant to pray after the afternoon prayer until the sun sets and after the morning prayer until the sun rises. Exceptions are allowed to perform prayers in Mecca and after circumambulation. This is the view of some of the companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and later scholars. This is the view of Ahmed and Ishaq. Again, some scholars from the Companions and their followers do not like to pray after the afternoon and morning prayers, even in Mecca. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik b. Enes and some Küfeli hold this view.
185-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mugaffel (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Between every adhan and iqama there is a prayer for those who wish.” (Bukhari, Athan: 16; Nesai, Athan: 39) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Zubayr. Abdullah b. The mugaffel hadith is hasan sahih. The Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had different opinions about performing the prayer before the fard of the evening. Some are of the opinion that there is no prayer before the fard of the evening. According to the narration from many of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), they used to pray two rak'ahs before the fard of the evening. and Ishaq say: “It would be nice if these two rak'ahs were offered.” They consider it mustahab to pray these two rak'ahs.
186-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever offers one rak'ah of the morning prayer before the sun rises or one rak'ah of the afternoon prayer before the sun sets. He is considered to have performed the prayer of that time.” (Bukhari, Mevâkît: 30; Nesâî, Mevâkît: 11) hadiths were narrated from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha). This hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. The views of Ahmed and Ishaq are in this center. This hadith; It should be understood as "for the one who falls asleep or forgets and remembers and sleeps when the sun is about to rise and set".
187-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made noon and afternoon, evening and nightfall together in Madina, without fear or rain. When asked what he wanted by doing so; He removed the hardship from his ummah.” (Bukhari, Mevâkît: 12; Nesâî, Mevâkît: 44) hadiths were also reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh). This hadith of Ibn Abbas was also narrated in different ways, and Jabir b. Zeyd, Said b. Cubeyr, Abdullah b. Shakik al-Ukayli is one of them. Ibn Abbas has another narration on this subject.
188-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If he performs two prayers together without any reason, he will step into one of the gates of great sin." (Tirmidhi narrated it.) Haneş's identity card is Abu Ali er Rahabiyyü, and his name is Hüseyin b. Kays. Ahmad and others from the hadiths consider this person weak in hadith transmission. According to this hadith, their men practiced and they say that prayers can be performed together on the journey and in Arafat. Some of the scholars of nature have allowed a sick person to perform two daily prayers together. Some scholars have said that it is possible to perform two daily prayers together in extremely rainy weather. Shafii, like Ahmad and Ishaq, are not of the opinion that the patient should gather the prayers.
189-) Abdullah b. According to what is reported from Zayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: We came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) in the morning and told him about the dream I had. He said: "This is a true dream." Get up with Bilal because he is better than you. He is tall and has a loud voice. Tell him what was said in your dream and let him call the Muslims to prayer. b. Zayd says: Umar b. When Khattab heard Bilal's call for prayer, he gathered up his skirt and came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and said: O Messenger of Allah, I swear by Allah, who sent you with the truth, I saw the same in my dream. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Praise be to Allah, so that the business became secure." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 28; Ibn Majah, Adhan: 1) A hadith has been narrated from Ibn Omar on this subject. Abdullah b. The hadith of Zayd is hasan authentic. This hadith is related to Ibrahim b. Sa'd, Muhammed b. He narrates it longer and more fully than Ishaq, and it is told that the words of the call to prayer will be read one by one, in two iqams. Abdullah b. Zayd is also called Ibn Abd Rabbih, Ibn Abdi Rabbin. We do not know that he narrated another hadith other than this one about the adhan. b. Zayd b. Asim al Mazini narrated different hadiths from our Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). and that person Abbad b. He is the uncle of Temîm.
190-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When Muslims came to Medina, they would gather to pray according to their estimations, and they would not call for prayer. One day they talked about it, some said, "Let's ring like the bells of the Christians," and some of them said, "Let's blow the horn like the horns of the Jews." Umar b. Can you send someone to call to prayer in Khattab? Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "O Bilal, get up and call the Muslims to prayer." (Bukhari, Adhan: 1; Ibn Mâce, Adhan: 1) the hadith is hasan authentic and is strange from the narration of Ibn Omar.
191-) It is narrated from Abu Mahzûre (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made him sit and taught him the adhan letter by letter. He said it is like our prayer. Bishr said to Ibrahim, "Repeat the adhan for me". He also repeated the call to prayer aloud where necessary. (Dârimî, Salat: 7; İbn Mâce, Adhan: 2) Abu Mahzûre's hadith on the adhan is sound, there are different narrations from him. The view of the Meccans and the view of Shafi'i are the same.
192-) According to the narration from Abu Mahzûre (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) taught him the adhan with nineteen words and the iqama as seventeen words.” (Muslim, Salat: 8; Ibn Majah, Adhan: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic. Mahzûre's name is Samure b. It is Mi'yer. Scholars are of this opinion about the adhan. It is also narrated from Abu Mahzûre that the words of the iqama are read once.
193-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Bilal was ordered to recite the Adhan in pairs and to recite the Iqat one by one." (Bukhari, Adhan: 2; Dârimî, Namaz: 6) A hadith was narrated from Ibn Omar on the subject. This Anas hadith is hasan authentic. This is the opinion of some scholars, among the companions and followers of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). This is the view of Malik, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq.
194-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Zayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The adhan and the iqama of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) were two by two." (Tirmidhi narrated.) Abdullah b. Zayd's hadith from Wakî' Ameş, Amr b. Murre and Abdurrahman b. It was narrated from Abi Layla. Abdullah b. He told us how Zayd recited the adhan in his dream. Amr b. Murre and Abdurrahman b. Abu Layla narrates: “Abdullah b. Zayd saw in his dream how to read the adhan.” This narration is more authentic than the narration of Ibn Abi Layla. Abdurrahman b. Ebi Leyla, Abdullah b. He did not hear any hadith from Zayd. According to scholars, both the azan and the iqama are two by two. This is the view of Sufyan as-Sevri, Ibn al-Mubarak and the people of Kufa. Ibn Abi Layla ki Muhammad b. Abdurrahman b. Abî Layla was a ruler of Kufa and did not hear any hadith from her father. He narrated it through someone else from his father.
195-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to Bilal: “O Bilal, when you recite the adhan, recite the adhan with ease and lengthening; Wait for a while until he finishes his drinking, until the need of the person who is stuck for toilet needs is met. Do not try to perform the fard prayer without seeing me.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
196-) Abd b. Humayd, Yunus b. He narrated the same hadith to us from Abdulmun through Muhammad. We know this hadith of Jabir only in this way, through Abdulmun's narration, which is considered unknown because there is an unknown person in his deed. He is an old man from Basra.
197-) According to the narration from the father of Abu Juhayfe (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I saw Bilal (radiyallahu anh) reciting the adhan, he was turning and turning his mouth to the right and left. His two fingers were on both ears. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sitting under a red tent that belonged to him. Cuhayfe says that tent was made of leather, I think. Bilal came with a forked staff and plunged it into the sand of Batha. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took it as a sutra and prayed. Meanwhile, dogs and donkeys were passing in front of her, she was wearing a red dress, as if I could see the shine of her shins. Sufyan said: We think it is a Yemeni dress. (Ibn Mâce, Azan: 3; Dârimî, Salat: 8) The hadith of Cuhayfe is hasan sound. According to his men, this is how the exercise is. That is, it is mustahab for the muezzin to put two fingers in his ears while reciting the adhan. Scholars say that the fingers are inserted into both ears during the iqamat. Evzâî is also of this opinion. Cuhayfe's name is Vehb b. Abdullah es Suvai.
198-) According to a narration from Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me; “Do not make taswib in the adhan of any prayer other than the adhan of the morning prayer!” they ordered. (Musnad: 22787) A hadith was also narrated from Abu Mahzûre. We know this hadith of Bilal (radiyallahu anh) only from the narration of Abu Israel al-Mulai. Abu Israel, on the other hand, narrated this hadith from Hakam b. He did not hear from Utayba. He also says: Hasen b. Umara, Referee b. He narrated from Utayba. The name of Abu Israel is “Ismail b. Ebi Ishaq. This person is not very strong in the company of hadith scholars. Scholars have put forward different views on the meaning of the word. Some of them are "taswib" in the morning prayer, "prayer is better than sleep." Ibn al-Mubarak and Ahmad hold this view. By giving a different meaning to the word "taswib", taswib is makruh and it is something that people put forward after the death of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). . This tesvîb he said was considered makruh by scholars. and after the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Mubarak and Ahmed: It is more correct to say that the word "taswib" is the muezzin's saying "Prayer is better than sleep" in the morning prayer. This is the view preferred by scholars. Abdullah b. It is narrated that Umar said "Prayer is better than sleep" in the morning prayer. He says: One day, Abdullah b. I entered with Omar, the call to prayer was read. We wanted to pray there too. At that time, the muezzin started to say, "Prayer is about to be performed, come on to prayer, come to salvation". Thereupon, Abdullah b. Umar left the mosque and said to get out of this innovator and did not pray in that mosque. Abdullah b. Omar does not tolerate the "tadwi" that emerged after the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam).
199-) Ziyâd b. According to the narration from Haris al-Sudai (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered me to recite the morning adhan, so I recited the adhan, and when the prayer was going to be performed, Bilal wanted to sit down, so the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The brother from Suda recited the call to prayer, whoever recites the call should also make the Iqamat.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 30; Ibn Majah, Adhan: 3) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar. We know this hadith of Ziyâd only from Ifrîkî's narration, and ifrîkî is seen as weak among hadith scholars. Yahya b. Said and others consider Ifrîkî weak. Ahmed says: I do not write the hadith of Ifrîkî. b. It strengthens Ismail's position on Ifrîkî's hadith transmission and reveals that Ifrîkî is a moderate narrator. Most of his men act according to this hadith and say, "Whoever recites the adhan will bring the iqama".
200-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Adhan should be recited with wudu." (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
201-) According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The one who has ablution calls to prayer” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is more authentic than the previous hadith. Ibn Wahb narrated the hadith of Abu Huraira without merfu. This hadith is Walid b. It is more authentic than the hadith of Muslim. Because Zuhri did not hear a hadith from Abu Huraira. Scholars have put forward different views about the call to prayer. Some said it was makruh. Some, such as Shafii and Ishaq, are of the opinion that the adhan can be recited without wudu. es Sevrî, İbn'ül Mubarak and Ahmed are also of this opinion.
202-) According to what was reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “As soon as the muezzin of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) waited for a while after the adhan, he immediately brought the iqama when he saw that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had come to the mosque. ” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 45; Bukhari, Adhan: 22) Jabir b. The hadith of Samura is hasan authentic. We know the narration from Simâk only in this way. Scholars have said: "The muezzin knows the time of the adhan better, and the imam knows the time better by standing for the prayer."
203-) According to the narration from the father of Salim (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "Bilal recites the adhan early to inform the morning prayer, but if you are going to fast, eat until you hear Umm Maktum's call to prayer" (Bukhari , Adhan: 13; Dârimî, Salat: 4) A hadith was narrated on the subject from Ibn Mas'ud, Aisha, Üneyse, Enes, Abu Dharr and Samura. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. Scholars have different opinions about the night prayer. Part of it: The azan recited at night replaces the morning prayer and does not need to be returned. Malik, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq are of this opinion. Some of them are: The adhan recited at night does not replace the morning prayer, it is necessary to repeat the adhan recited at night. Sûfyan es Sevrî is of this opinion. b. Salama, Ayyub, Nafi' narrates the hadith, "Bilal recited the adhan at night, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered him to call because the servant fell asleep". This hadith is not very authentic. The authentic one: Ubeydullah b. It is a hadith narrated by Umar and others from Nafi' and Ibn Umar: "Bilal calls the adhan at night, eat and drink until you recite Ummu Maktum" b. Abi Rawwad narrated from Nafi: “A muezzin of Omar called the adhan at night, and Omar ordered him to return the call to prayer.” This hadith is not authentic as above. Because it was narrated from Nafi and Ibn Umar as munqat. Hammad b. Salama must have meant the hadith of Ibn Abi Rawwad, as he said so. The authentic narration is the hadith reported by Ubaydullah and many people from Ibn Omar through Nafi', and from Salim and Ibn Umar through Zuhri: "Bilal recited the adhan at night". If Hammad's hadith were authentic, this hadith would have no meaning. Therefore, by saying that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Bilal calls the adhan at night," he states something that will happen in the future, namely that Bilal will call the adhan early at night. If the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) had not replaced the adhan before the start of Fajr, and if that adhan had to be returned, he would not have said, "Bilal recites the adhan at night." al-Madinî says: Hammad b. The narration by Salama from Ayyub, Nafi and Ibn Omar is one of the only surviving narrations that are not widely accepted. Hammad b. Salama is wrong in this hadith.
204-) According to the narration from Abu Sha'sa (radiyallahu anh), he said: After the afternoon prayer was recited, a man came out of the mosque, upon which Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh) said: "This man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). He rebelled.” (Ibn Majah, Adhan: 7; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 42) A hadith was also narrated from Osman on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. The opinion of the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later scholars is in this direction, and if he has an excuse or if his wudu is broken, he can leave. Nehai: It says that unless the muezzin starts to sit down, one can leave. Tirmidhi: In our opinion, this provision is valid for anyone who has an excuse. Şa'sa's name is “Sulaym b. Esved” and Eş'as b. He is the father of ebi'sh sha'sa. Eş'as b. Abis Sha'sa transmitted this hadith to us from his father.
205-) Malik b. According to the narration from Huwayris (radiyallahu anh), he said: I came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) with my uncle, he said to us: "When you go on a journey, call the adhan, bring an iqama, and your elder will be the imam for you." (Bukhari, Azan: 18; Nesai, Azan: 26) This hadith is hasan authentic. Most of the men are of the opinion that the call to prayer is called during the journey, and some of them say that it will be sufficient to just bring the Iqamah and that the call to prayer can only be done to gather the congregation. The first view is more correct. Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion.
206-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "It is written that whoever works as a muezzin for the sake of Allah for seven years will be saved from Hellfire." (Ibn Maje, Adhan: 5) In this regard, Abdullah b. Hadiths were also narrated from Mas'ud, Sevban, Muaviye, Enes, Abu Huraira and Abu Said. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is strange. Tumeyle's name: “Yahya b. It is “vasıh”. The name of Abu Hamza es Sükkerî is “Muhammad b. It's a monkey. b. Yazid al-Jufi was considered weak. That is why Yahya b. Said and Abdurrahman b. Mahdi did not accept the hadiths of this and left them. I heard from Carud, he says, conveying from Vekî: “If Jabir al-Jufi did not exist, the Kufa community would have remained without hadith, if it were not for Hammad, it would have remained without fiqh.”
207-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The Imam is the one who watches over the believers, and the muezzin is the one who is trusted. O Allah, do not mislead the imams, and forgive the muezzins.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 32) Aisha, Sahl b. Sa'd and Ukbe b. A hadith was also narrated from Amir. Abu Huraira's hadith is reported by Sufyan es Sevrî, Hafs b. Gıyas and others also narrate from A'meş and Abu Salih. b. Muhammad quotes A'mesh as follows: "This hadith was narrated to me from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) through Abu Salih and Abu Huraira" b. Suleiman said this hadith from Muhammad b. Abu Salih, his father and Aisha. I heard Abu Zur'a say: "The hadith narrated by Abu Salih from Abu Huraira is more authentic than the hadith narrated by Aisha." Ali al-Madinî says that there is no such hadith, which Abu Salih narrated from neither Abu Hurayra nor Aisha.
208-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When you hear the muezzin reciting the adhan, say what the muezzin said." (Bukhari, Athan: 14; Nesai, Athan: 33) Abu Rafi, Abu Huraira, Umm Habibe, Abdullah b. Amr, Abdullah b. Rabia, Aisha, Muâz b. Hadith was also narrated from Anas and Muawiya. The hadith of Abu Said is hasan authentic. and others have conveyed a similar hadith of Malik from Zuhrî to us. This hadith is from Said b. It was also narrated through Musayyeb and Abu Huraira, and Malik's narration is more authentic.
209-) Osman b. According to the narration from Ebî'l As (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The last word of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to me was: “Hold a muezzin who did not get paid because he recited the adhan.” (Nesai, Adhan: 32; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 39) This hadith of Osman is hasan authentic. The opinion of his men was in this direction, and they did not like the muezzin's getting paid, and they considered it appropriate to do it for the sake of Allah.
210-) Sa'd b. According to a narration from Ebî Vakkâs (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever hears the muezzin saying “ashhadu en la ilahe illallah” while reciting the adhan, “ve ene ashadu en la ilahe illallahu vahdehu la la ilaha illallah ve ene ashhadu en la ilaha illallahu vahdehu la sharia If abduhu ve rasuluhu Raziytü billahi says, Rabben and bi Muhammad's rasul and bil Islam religion, his sins will be forgiven. (Muslim, Salat: 7; Ibn Majah, Adhan: 4) I believe and bear witness that there is no god but Allah, there is only one Allah and He has no partner, and I also testify that Muhammad is Allah's servant and servant. He is His Messenger. I am pleased with Allah as Lord, and I am pleased with Muhammad as messenger. I am also pleased with the religion of Islam as a lifestyle, I am also pleased with the presence of Muhammad as a messenger, I am also satisfied with the religion of Islam as a lifestyle, I like it. This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Only Lays b. Sa'd'in, Hukeym b. Abdullah b. We know it from the narration he made from Kays.
211-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdillah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever listens to the adhan recited by the muezzin: Allahumma Rabbe hazihidda'watittammeti vessalatil kaimeti Ati Muhammeden avesiilete velfazilete vebeasu makkaha on the Day of Judgment" intercession for him will be lawful.” (Bukhari, Adhan: 8; Ibn Mâce, Adhan: 4) “O my God, the Lord of this complete and perfect invitation and the prayer that will keep my religion alive, you promised the Prophet Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in Paradise, the highest praise worthy of praise. give authority and the highest degrees.” This hadith of Jabir is from Muhammad b. Sahih hasan is garib because it comes through munkadir. hadith Shuayb b. Apart from Abi Hamza, Muhammad b. We do not know of anyone who narrated from al-Munkadir. Abu Hamza's name is "Dinar".
212-) Enes b. According to what is reported from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The prayer made between the adhan and the iqama is not rejected." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 35) This hadith of Anas is hasan sahih. Ishaq al-Hamadani reported this hadith from Burayd b. He narrated it exactly through Ebi Meryem and Anas.
213-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prayed on the night of Isra as fifty times, then it was reduced to five times and called: O Muhammad, the word does not change in my presence. There are fifty rewards for the daily prayer.” (Nesai, Salat: 1) Ubade b. es Sâmit, Talha b. Ubeydullah, Ebû Zerr, Ebû Katade, Malik b. A hadith was also narrated from Sa'sa and Abu Said al-Khudri. This hadith of Enes is hasan sahih.
214-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The five daily prayers are expiation for other sins, unless a major sin is committed until Friday.” (Muslim, Tahara: 5; Ibn Mâce, Ikametus Salat: 79) A hadith was also reported from Jabir, Enes and Hanzala al-Useydi on this subject. This hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
215-) According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Prayer in congregation is twenty-seven degrees higher than prayer performed alone.” (Nesai, imam: 42; Ibn Mâce, Mesacid: 16) Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Ubey b. Ka'b, Muâz b. Hadith was also narrated from Cebel, Abu Said, Abu Huraira and Anas (radiyallahu anh). The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. In a similar way, it was narrated from Nafi', Ibn Omar, that "the prayer performed in congregation is twenty-seven times more valuable than the prayer performed alone". While most of the narrations on this subject say "twenty-five" times, only Ibn Umar's narration says "twenty-seven" times.
216-) According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The prayer a person performs in congregation is twenty-five degrees higher than the prayer he offers alone.” (Nesai, imam: 42; Ibn Majah, Masajid: 16) This hadith is hasan authentic.
217-) According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “By Allah, I am feeling like this: I would like my men to collect wood piles, then I will order them to pray, so I will destroy the houses of those who do not come to the mosque for prayer. Let me burn them while they are inside.” (Ibn Majah, Mesacid: 17; Nesai, Imame: 49) Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Ebû'd Derda, İbn Abbas, Muâz b. Hadith was also narrated from Anas and Jabir. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Many of the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "The prayer of a person who hears the adhan but does not come to the mosque for prayer will not be accepted." Some scholars, on the other hand, said: "This is in the sense of violence and coercion". But they said that no one is allowed to leave the congregation without an excuse.
218-) According to Mujahid, when Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh) was asked about the situation of a person who fasts during the day and prays at night but does not come to the congregation, he said: "He is in Hell." (Tirmidhi has narrated this hadith) to us from Leys, Mujahid and Muharîbî. The meaning of this hadith is: It is not to attend the Friday and congregational prayers by ignoring and condescending.
219-) Yazid b. According to a narration from Aswad (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on Hajj. I performed the morning prayer with him in the Haif mosque. When he finished the prayer and returned, he saw two people at the back who were not praying in congregation, and they said to bring them to me. When the men were brought, their chests were trembling with fear. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: What is the obstacle for you to pray with us? They said, 'O Messenger of Allah, we used to pray in our tents. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'Do not do that, and if you pray in your house or in your tent, then if you come across a congregation, pray again with them, it will be a voluntary prayer for you. (Nesâî, Imame: 53) Mihcen ed Dilî, Yazîd b. A hadith was also narrated from Amir. Yazid b. The hadith of Aswad is hasan authentic. This is the opinion of many of his men. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them and they say: “If a person who prays by himself comes across a congregation, he should perform that prayer again with that congregation. If a person comes across a congregation while performing the evening prayer, he performs the evening prayer with that congregation and adds one more rak'ah, and the prayer he performs by himself first becomes the obligatory prayer, and what he prays becomes nafilah."
220-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “After the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had prayed, a man appeared. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "Who wants to gain reward by praying with this person in congregation," a man stood up and prayed with him in congregation." (Musnad: 10596) Abu Umama, Abu Musa and al-Hakim b. A hadith has also been narrated from Umayr. This hadith of Abu Said is hasan. The Companions of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and most of the scholars of the Tabi'un period are of this opinion and say that congregational prayers can be performed again in a mosque where congregational prayers are performed. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Scholars say: Those who cannot reach the congregation pray one by one. This is what Sufyan, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Malik, Shafi'i say. Suleiman is the most Naci from Basra, he was sent to Suleiman b. It is also called al-Aswad. Ebü'l Mütevekkil's name was Ali b. He is David.
220-) The Value and Value of Vitr Prayer
220-) The Value and Value of Vitr Prayer
221-) Osman b. According to the narration from Afwan (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A person who performs the night prayer in congregation gains rewards as if he had spent the night in prayer. A person who performs the Isha and morning prayers in congregation gains the reward as if he had spent the whole night in worship.” (Muslim, Mesacid: 46) Ibn Omar, Abu Huraira, Enes, Umare b. Ruveybe, Cündüp b. Abdullah b. Sûfyan al Beceli, Ubey b. A hadith was also quoted from Ka'b, Abu Musa and Burayda. This 'Uthman (radiyallahu anh) hadith is hasan authentic. hadith Abdurrahman b. It was transferred from Osman as mawkuf through Ebi Amre. At the same time, this hadith has been narrated in many ways as merfu.
222-) Jundup b. According to the narration from Sufyan (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever performs the morning prayer in congregation means he has entered under the protection of Allah. So do not break the protection of Allah.” (Muslim, Masajid: 46) This hadith is hasan authentic.
223-) According to the narration from Burayda al-Aslemî (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Give good tidings of light to those who walk to mosques in darkness on the Day of Judgment.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 49) This hadith is authentic by this way. In other words, he conveyed it to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). However, it was also narrated as "the word of the Companions" without conveying it to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam).
224-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The best of the male ranks is the first row, and the least rewarding one is the last row. The best of the female ranks is the last row, and the one with the least reward is the one closest to the males.” (Nesai, Imame: 20) In this regard, Jabir, Ibn Abbas, Ibn Omar, Abu Said, Ubey, Aisha, Irbad b. A hadith was also narrated from Sariye and Anas. This hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. It is narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked for forgiveness (forgiveness) three times for those praying in the first row and once for the second row.
225-) The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If people knew how valuable it is to call the adhan and pray in the first row, they would find no other way than drawing lots, and they would draw lots." (Bukhari, Adhan: 73; İbn Mâce, İkame: 51) İshâk b. This hadith of Musa al-Ansari has thus been transferred to us from Maa'n, Malik, Sumey, Abu Salih and Abu Huraira.
226-) Qutayba narrated a similar hadith from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh).
227-) Numân b. According to the narration from Bashir (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) always straightened our ranks. Once, he saw a man with a protruding chest and said: "Either you straighten your ranks or Allah will bring differences between you in your thoughts and ideas." (Nesai, Imame: 25; İbn Mâce, İkame: 50) on the subject, Jabir b. Semure, Berâ, Câbir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdillah, Anas, Abu Huraira and Aisha. This Numân b. The hadith of Bashir is hasan authentic. It is also narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is also narrated that (radiyallahu anh) appointed special officials to straighten the ranks and did not start the prayer without hearing from them. and also from Osman; It has also been narrated that they had the ranks themselves corrected and said, "Fix the ranks". It has also been reported to us that Ali (radiyallahu anh) straightened the ranks by saying "O, so and so, come forward, and so and so, stand back."
228-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Let those among you who are competent, mature and sane be in the first row behind me, let those who come after take place in the next row, and those who come next should be in the same row. let them be on the next line. As in all matters, do not be divided in the pure order, so that your hearts will not change against each other. Also, beware of the turmoil in the bazaars and markets.” (Muslim, Salat: 28; Nesai, imam: 23) Ubey b. Hadiths were also narrated from Ka'b, Abu Mas'ud, Abu Said, Bara and Anas. The hadith of Ibn Mas'ud is hasan sahih. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) liked that Muhajir and Ansar stood behind him to memorize what they recited during the prayer. The name of Khalid al Hazza was Khalid b. It is Mihran. He is known for his tag Abul Münazil. b. I heard Ismail say: Khalid al Hazza (meaning Shoemaker), but he has never been a shoemaker. He was called Hazza (shoemaker) because he sat next to the shoemaker a lot. The name of Abu Ma'şer is “Ziyâd b. Kuleyb".
229-) Abdulhamid b. According to the narration from Mahmud (radiyallahu anh), he said: "We prayed in congregation behind a commander, and the crowd forced us to pray between two pillars. After performing the prayer, Anas b. Malik said: We used to avoid praying between two pillars in the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 94; Nesai, Imam: 33) on the subject of Kurre b. A hadith was also narrated from Iyas al-Muzeni. This hadith of Anas (radiyallahu anh) is hasan authentic. Some scholars did not tolerate praying by standing between the columns. Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. Some scholars have allowed this.
230-) Hilal b. According to the narration from Yisaf (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While in the Raqqa region, Ziyad b. Abi'l Ca'd took my hand. One of the sons of Esed, Vabisa b. He took him to an old man called Ma'bed and said that this old man had told me the following hadith: "A man prayed alone behind the row. The old man was listening. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) ordered him to repeat his prayer.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 99; İbn Mâce, İkame: 54) In this regard, Ali b. Hadith was also narrated from Shayban and Ibn Abbas. The hadith is hasan. Some scholars did not approve of praying alone behind the rows and they say, "One who prays alone behind the row returns his prayer". Ahmed and Ishaq think this way. Some scholars say: "A person who performs alone behind the row does not repeat the prayer." Sûfyan es Sevrî, İbn'ül Mubarak and Shafii are of this opinion. Based on this hadith by a group of Vabisa, they say: "One who prays alone behind the row repeats his prayer". Hammad b. Ebi Süleyman, İbnü Ebi Leyla and Vekî' are among them. Hilal b. Many people believe that this hadith, which he narrated from Yisaf, is attributed to Ebul Ahvas, Ziyâd b. from ebil Ca'd, Vabisa b. He narrated it like his narration from Ma'bed. There is an indication in the hadith that Hilal caught up with Vabisa and listened to hadiths from him. Hadith scholars have different views on this issue. part: Amr b. Murre, Hilal b. From Yisaf, Amr b. Rashid, Vabisa b. They say that his narration from Ma'bed is more authentic. The part is: Husayn's Hilal b. From Yisâf, Ziyâd b. from ebil Ca'd, Vabisa b. His narration from Ma'bed is more authentic. I think this hadith is from Amr b. It is more authentic than Murra's hadith. Because Hilal b. Yisâf's, Ziyâd b. It was also narrated from Abî'l Ca'd in other ways than the narration from Vabisa.
231-) Vabisa b. It was narrated from Ma'bed (radiyallahu anh): "A person prayed by himself behind his rows, but the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered him to repeat his prayer." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 99; Ibn Majah, Iqama: 54) I heard from Carud, he said: I heard the deputy saying: "If a person prays alone behind the rows, he will repeat his prayer."
232-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “One night, I stood to the left of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to pray in congregation together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) grabbed me by the head and held me right. took it to his side.” (Nesai, Imame: 19; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 97) A hadith has been narrated from Anas on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Many scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods practiced according to this hadith and said, "If there is only one congregation, he should stand on the right of the imam."
233-) Samura b. According to a narration from Jundub (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to order us as three people to take the lead as an imam when we wanted to be a congregation.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) Ibn Mas'ud, Jabir and Enes b. They also narrated a hadith from Malik. The hadith is hasan garib. Scholars say: "If the congregation consists of three people, two people will stand behind the imam." It was narrated from Ibn Mas'ud: “Ibn Mas'ud was the imam of Alkame and Aswad, and he stopped one of them on his right and the other on his left.” Ibn Mas'ud narrated this hadith as merfu. Some of the hadith narrators included Ismail b. They criticized the memory of Muslim al-Makki.
234-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): “Anas' grandmother, Mulayke, invited her to a meal she prepared for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He said, "Let's pray with you as a congregation after we eat." Enes says: I got up to lay a mat that turned black because we used it a lot, I sprinkled it with water and wiped it. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got up and stood in front as the imam, I and an orphan boy lined up behind him, and the old woman stood behind us. The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) led two rak'ahs of prayer and finished his prayer by saluting." The hadith (Nasai, Imame: 20; Abu Dawud, Salat: 97) is hasan authentic. Many scholars have acted upon this hadith and say, "If there is a man and a woman with the imam, the male will stand to the right of the imam, and the woman behind them." scientists; This hadith proves that the prayer of a person who prays on his own behind the row is valid, and they say: There is no prayer for a child, as if Anas prayed alone behind the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Indeed, this view is not correct, because if there was no prayer for the child, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) would not have stopped the orphan child with Enes, he would have stopped Enes to his right. Musa b. The narration of Anas from Anas is as follows: “Enes prayed together with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) stopped him on his right.” The hadith indicates that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) wanted to perform voluntary prayers in congregation and bless their homes.
235-) According to the narration from Abu Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The person who reads and knows the book of Allah best in the congregation becomes an imam; If they are equal in this matter, the person who knows the sunnah best will become the imam, if they are equal in this matter, the imam will be the first priority in the migration, and if they are equal in the migration, the eldest will be the imam. A person cannot be an imam in a place within his jurisdiction, nor can one sit in his private place of residence, but if he gives permission, he can become an imam and sit where he sits. Mahmud b. Gaylân says: In the narration of Ibn Numayr, instead of the expression "oldest" here, "the oldest person" is used. (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 46; Nesai, Imame: 3) In this regard, Abu Said, Enes b. Malik, Malik b. Huveyris and Amr b. A hadith was also narrated from Salama. This hadith of Abu Mas'ud is hasan authentic. Scholars act according to this hadith and say the following: Likewise, they say, "The owner of a place is more worthy of being an imam there." While some scholars say: "There is no harm if the owner of that place gives permission for someone else to be an imam", some of them do not like this and say: "Sunnah is that the owner of that place leads the prayer". b. Hanbal, I hope that the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) statement in this hadith: "A person cannot be an imam in a place under his authority, nor can one sit in his own place, but only if he gives permission". says. If the owner of the house gives permission, he sees no harm in having others become his imams.
236-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you becomes the imam of a congregation, he should not extend his prayer too long, let him lead it lightly, because among the congregation there may be small, old, weak and sick people. But when he does it by himself, he can make it as long as he wants.” (Muslim, Salat: 37; Nesai, Imame: 35) Adiyy b. Hatîm, Enes, Câbir b. Samura, Malik b. Abdillah, Ebû Vakîd, Osman b. Ebî'l As, Ebû Mes'ûd, Câbir b. A hadith was narrated from Abdullah and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Most of the scholars were of this opinion and preferred not to extend the prayer in order not to cause difficulties for the sick, weak and old people. Abu'z Zinad's name was Abdullah b. It is Zekvan. A'rec, Abdurrahman b. Hormuz al Medini. and Abu Dawud.
237-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Of the people who were imams, the person who led the prayer was the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Bukhari, Adhan: 64; Muslim, Salat: 37) This hadith is hasan. Abu Avâne's name is Veddah. What is the name of Abu Avâne to Kutayba? I asked him, he said it is Veddah. When he said whose son he was, he said, "I don't know: He was the slave of a woman in Basra."
238-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The key to prayer is wudu; The beginning of the things that cannot be done in prayer is to start the prayer with takbir. Some movements and behaviors can be freed by leaving the prayer with greetings. Those who do not recite Surah Fatiha and a surah in all obligatory and sunnah prayers will not be able to pray." (Ibn Majah, Iqame: 4; Dârimî Salat: 31) This hadith is hasan. Hadith was also narrated from Ali and Aisha. Ali b. Abi Talib's hadith on this subject is more authentic and authentic than Abu Said's hadith in terms of saned. This hadith was mentioned in the wudu section. The Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and in later periods acted on this hadith. This is the view of Sufyan as-Sevri, Ibn al-Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmad and Ishaq. That is, a person starts and enters the prayer only with takbir. Abu Bakr, who heard from Veki, Muhammed b. According to what I heard from Eban, he was saying: Abdurrahman b. I heard Mahdi from himself saying: “If a person utters the seventy names of Allah without uttering takbir at the beginning of the prayer, he does not enter the prayer and this does not take the place of takbir. I order the person whose wudu' is invalidated without saluting, to perform ablution and return to the place where he prayed, to greet again. Because the ruling is based on the actual apparent meaning of the hadith. Nadre's name is al-Mundhir b. Malik b. It is Kutaa.
239-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited takbir for prayer, he would open his fingers and say takbir." (Darimi, Salat: 35; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 116) The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan. Many people derive this hadith from Ibn Abi Zi'b, Said b. Narrated by Siman and Abu Huraira, they said: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) started the prayer, he raised his hands outstretched." This narration was written by Yahya b. It is more authentic than the narration of al-Yeman.
240-) Said b. Siman (radiyallahu anh) said that he heard Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) say: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) started the prayer, he raised his hands outstretched." (Dârimî, Salat: 41; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 114) Abdullah b. Abdurrahman says: This hadith was written by Yahya b. It is more authentic than the hadith of al-Yeman. Yahya b. There is a mistake in al-Yeman's hadith.
241-) According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever continues in congregation for forty days and catches the first takbir: Allah writes two salvations for him, one from the fire and the other from the hypocrites. ” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith was narrated from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh) as mawkuf, and only Salm b. Kutayba'nin, Tu'me b. Amr, Habib b. We know from the narration of Ebi Sabit through Anas.
241-) The Value and Value of Friday
241-) The Value and Value of Friday
242-) This hadith is Habib b. Ebi Habib al Beceli through Enes b. It was narrated from Malik as his own word. Hennad reported this hadith as Vekî', Halid b. From Tahman, Habib b. He narrated the same hadith from Abi Habib al-Bajali and Anas, and he narrated the hadith without merfu. b. Ayyaş reported this hadith from Umara b. From Gaziyya, Ömer and Enes b. He narrated it through Malik. This hadith is not reserved as a hadith, it is mursal. In other words, it is a hadith transmitted directly from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) by bypassing the Companions in the narration. Because Umar b. Gaziye, Enes b. He did not reach Malik. Muhammed b. Ismail says: Habib b. Ebî Habib is known by his nickname "Ebûl Keşusâ" and he is also called "Ebû Umaira".
243-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got up for the night prayer, he would recite takbir: "Subhanake Allahumma wa bihamdike wa tebarekesmuka wa ta'ala cedduka vela allah He would then say, "Allahu akbar kebiran": "Euzu billahissemiil scholar mimineşşahitanirracim's sameness and nefîhî ve nafsihî". (Nesai, İftitah: 18; Dârimî, Salat: 33) This hadith of Abu Said is the most famous of the narrations on this subject. Scholars have acted upon this hadith. Many scholars such as Umar b. Hattab and Abdullah b. According to the following narration from Mas'ud, they acted. That is, he said, "Subhanake Allahumma wa bihamdike wa tebarekesmuke ve ta'ala cedduke vela ilahe gayru-ke". Most of the scholars of the Tabi'un and the following period, most of the scholars of this hadith period act according to this hadith. The evidence of this hadith of Abu Said has been mentioned. Yahya b. Said, Ali b. Ali privately spoke about Rifai in an unpleasant way. Ahmed says: This hadith is not authentic.
244-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) reported that she said: When the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) started to pray, he would say: "Subhanaka Allahumma wa bihamdika wa tabarekesmuka wa ta'ala cedduke vela ilaha gayruka." (Darimi, Salat: 33) We know the hadith only in this way, with the narration of Aisha. It has been mentioned about the memory of Harise from the narrators. Ebur Rical's name; Muhammed b. Abdurrahman al Medini.
245-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from the son of Mugaffel (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “While I was praying, my father heard me saying the basmala openly and said: O my son, this is an innovation that you have done. He continued by saying, "Beware of bid'at; He said: I have not seen anything that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was more angry with his companions than invoking innovations in Islam. I didn't hear you recite the basmala. When you start the prayer, start by saying "Alhamdulillah, Rabbil Alemin". (Dârimî, Salat: 34; Nesai, İftitah: 21) Abdullah b. The hadith of Mugaffel is hasan. Many scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) acted upon this hadith. Abu Bakr, Omar, Osman, Ali and others and natural scholars are among them. This is also the opinion of es Sevrî, İbn'ül Mubarak, Ahmed and İshâk;
246-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) started to pray, he would start by reciting the Basmala." (Nesai, İftitah: 22) This is not the case with this hadith. Many of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) practiced according to this view, and Abu Hurayra, Ibn Omar, Ibn Abbas, Ibn Zubayr and some of their followers think that "Basmala" should be read clearly. adopts. b. Hammad is the son of Abu Suleiman. The name of Abu Khalid al Va'libî is “Hürmuz” and he is from Kufa.
247-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman used to start the recitation in prayer with the sura that started with the words “Alhamdulillahi Rabbil Alemin”. (Nesai, Iftitah: 24; Muslim, Salat: 11) This hadith is hasan authentic. The opinion of the Companions and followers of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and many of the scholars of the later period was according to this hadith, and they would start the prayer with the chapter of Fatiha. says: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman used to start the prayer with the surah "Fatiha". It does not mean that they would not read the basmala. Reading in prayer should start with basmala. If the reading is open, the basmala also means that it is read clearly.
248-) Ubade b. According to the narration from Samit (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "There is no prayer for those who do not recite Fatiha" (Nasai, Iftitah: 24; Muslim, Salat: 11) Abu Hurayra, Aisha, Enes, Abu Qatade and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Ubade is hasan authentic. Many of the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) act upon this hadith. Umar b. Hattab, Ali b. Ebî Tâlib, Câbir b. Abdullah, Imran b. Husayn and other scholars are among them and they are of the opinion that prayer is not permissible without reading Surah Fatiha. b. Abi Talib says: "A prayer performed without reciting the Fatiha is incomplete." Ibn al-Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq also hold this view. I heard Umar's son say, "I had the opposite view with Ibn Uyeyna for eighteen years. Humey was a year older than me. I heard Abu Amr say, "I made Hajj seventy times by walking with my feet."
249-) According to the narration from Wâil ibn Hujr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “…After reciting the verse “Gayrilmagdubi alaihim wa lazzallin”, he said “Amen” and raised his voice at this word, he said stretching it out. (Nesâî, İftitah: 33; Dârimî, Salat: 38) A hadith was also narrated from Ali and Abu Huraira on this subject. The hadith of Vail ibn Hujr is hasan. This is the opinion of many scholars, among the companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later scholars. They are of the opinion that men should raise their voices when they say “Amen”. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Shu'ba said this hadith; Salama b. From Küheyl, Hucr b. From Anbes, Alkame b. It is narrated from Vail and his father that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Gayril ma'dubi 'alaihim wa lazzallin" and said, "Amen" without raising his voice. I heard Muhammad say: The hadith of Sufyan al-Thawri is more authentic than the hadith of Shu'ba. Shu'ba was mistaken in this hadith, as follows: Among the narrators, he calls a person "Hujr abil Anbes", whereas he is "Hujr ibn Anbes" and is known by his nickname Abus Seken. Another mistake is: “Alkame b. Vâil”, whereas there is no “Alkama” in the hadith, and he says “Vâil b. Hucr" is. He also says "he lowered his voice" in the word "Amen", whereas this word is "raised his voice". I asked Abu Zür'a about this hadith and he said: This hadith of Sufyan is more authentic than the hadith of Shu'ba, and Ala b. Salih al Esedî, Seleme b. Another hadith similar to Sufyan's was narrated from Küheyl.
250-) Vâil b. Hucr (radiy-Allâhu anh), from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to Salama b. He narrated a similar hadith of Sufyan from Küheyl.
251-) According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When the imam says Amin, say Amen. Whoever says "Amen" coincides with the angels saying "Amen", that person's past sins will be forgiven. (Nesai, İftitah: 35; Dârimî, Salat: 38) The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan authentic.
252-) According to the narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I know that he paused twice in the reading from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) in his prayer" Imran b. Husayn did not accept my opinion and said, "He would pause once." Thereupon, Ubey b. We asked Ka'b about this in a letter; Ubey replied that Semure had memorized it. Said says to Qatada, "What are these two pauses?" We asked him, and he replied: The first pause is when he "starts the prayer" and the second is when he "finates reading". He says, “When he finished reading, he liked to take a break before going to ruku'”. (Dârimî, Salat: 37; İbn Mâce, İkame: 12) hadiths were narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh). The hadith of Samura is hasan. Most of the scholars are of this opinion and consider it recommended that the Imam pause twice when he starts the prayer and when he finishes reading. This is the opinion of Ahmed, İshak and our friends.
253-) Kabisa b. According to a narration from Hulb's father, he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would be our imam and he would hold his left hand with his right hand." (Nesâî, İftitah: 9; Dârimî, Salat: 35) Vâil b. Hucr, Gutayf b. Haris, Ibn Abbas, Ibn Mas'ud, and Sahl b. A hadith has been narrated from Sad. The hadith of Hulb is hasan. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and later scholars act on this hadith and say that the right hand should be placed on the left hand in prayer. While some scholars say that the hands should be above the navel, some say that they should be below the navel, and both sides have a broad and comprehensive view. Hülb's name: “Yezîd b. Kunafe et Tai”.
254-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abu Bakr and Omar used to say takbir during the prayer, during the descent and take-off, that is, in standing and quud.” (Dârimî, Salat: 41; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 115) Abu Hurayra, Enes, Ibn Omar, Ebû Malik al-Ash'ari, Abu Musa, Imran b. Husayn, Vâil b. A hadith was also reported from Hujr and Ibn Abbas. Abdullah b. The hadith of Mas'ud is hasan sahih. Many of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) acted upon this hadith. Abu Bakr, Omar, Osman, Ali and others are among them. All jurists and scholars, along with the scholars of the Tabi'un period, are of this opinion.
255-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to say takbir while standing while going to ruku'.” (Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 115; Dârimî, Salat: 40) This hadith is hasan authentic. This is the view of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the scholars of the Tabi'un period who came after them. That is, a person must say: "When going to ruku' and prostration, he should definitely say takbir."
256-) According to the narration from Salim's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father, he said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) raise his hands up to his shoulders when starting the prayer, going into ruku' and getting up from the ruku'.” Ibn Abi Umar added the following in his narration: "He would not raise his hands between two prostrations." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 115; Dârimi, Salat: 40)
257-) Fadl b. es Sabbah al-Baghdadi, Sûfyan b. He narrated a similar hadith of Ibn Abi Umar from Uyeyna and Zuhri with the same deed. Ömer, Ali, Vâil b. Hucr, Malik b. Huveyris, Enes, Ebû Hüreyre, Ebû Humayd, Ebû Useyd, Sehl b. Sa'd, Muhammed b. A hadith was also narrated from Maslama, Abu Qatada, Abu Musa al-Ashari, Jabir and Umayr al-Leysi. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. This is the opinion of some scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Ibn Umar, Jabir b. Abdullah, Abu Huraira, Enes, Ibn Abbas, Abdullah b. Such is the view of Zubayr and others. From the Tabin period, Hasan al Basrî, Ata, Tavus, Mucahid, Nafi', Sâlim b. Abdullah, Said b. Jubayr and others adopted the same view. Ma'mer, Evzai, Ibn Uyeyne, Abdullah b. al-Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq were among the scholars of their time who adopted the same view. Abdullah b. Mubarak: Citing a hadith that Zuhri narrated from Salim from his father, he said: The hadith of Ibn Mas'ud, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to raise his hands only when starting the prayer" is not stable; The hadith "raising the hands at every takbir" is fixed. b. Mubarak's words, Ahmed b. Abde el Amulî, Vehb b. From Zem'a, Sûfyan b. He transferred it to us from Abdulmalik. Yahya b. Musa, İsmail b. Narrated by Abi Uveys, he said: “Malik b. Anas was of the opinion that the hands should be raised during takbir in prayer. Again, Yahya, quoting from Abdurrazzak, says: "Ma'mer was also of the opinion that hands should be raised during takbir in prayer." b. I heard Muâz say: Sufyan b. Uyeyne, Ömer b. Harun and Nadr b. They used to raise their hands while Sumeyl was starting the prayer, going to ruku' and standing up from ruku'.
258-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Shall I lead you a prayer like the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? He said, and he prayed, only raising his hands in the beginning takbir." (Nesâî, İftitah: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 116) on the subject of Barâ b. A hadith was also narrated from Azib. This hadith of Ibn Mas'ud is hasan. The opinions of many of the Companions and the scholars of the course are on this hadith. Like Sûfyan es Sevrî and the people of Küfe.
259-) Umar b. According to the narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), he said: "It is sunnah to hold hands to knees during ruku'. (Nesai, Appendix: 93; Abu Dâvd, Salat: 145) Sa'd, Enes, Ebû Humeyd, Ebû Üseyd, Sahl b. Sa'd Muhammed b. A hadith was also narrated from Maslama and Abu Mas'ud. This hadith of Umar is hasan authentic. The scholars of the Companions, Tabin and later periods agree on this issue. Only Ibn Mas'ud and some of his friends narrated that in ruku called "Tatbik", putting both hands together and putting them between the knees was abolished in the presence of scholars.
260-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he says: We used to do a different form in ruku, then this form was forbidden to us and we were ordered to put our hands on our knees. (Nesâî, İftitah: 93; Buhârî, Sıfatıssalat: 37) this hadith is given to us by Ebû Avane, Ebû Ya'fur, Mûsâb b. Sad and his father Sa'd b. He narrated it from Abu Wakkas in this way. The name of Abu Humayd es Saidi is Abdurrahman b. Sa'd b. al-Mundhir. The name of Ebû Useyd es Saidî is Malik b. He is Rabiâ. The name of Abu Hasîn is Osman b. He is Asim al-Asedi. The name of Abu Abdurrahman es Sülemî is Abdullah b. It's Habib. The name of Abu Ya'fur, Abdurrahman b. Ubayd b. It is Nistas. The name of Abu Ya'fur al Abdi is Vakîd and it is also said to be Vakdan. Abdullah b. This is the narrator from Abi Awfa. Both are from Kufa.
261-) Sahl b. According to the narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abu Humayd, Abu Usayd, Sahl b. Said and Muhammed b. Maslama got together and talked about the prayer that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed, Abu Humayd said: "I am the one who knows the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) best. He placed his hands on his kneecaps as if holding his kneecaps, and stretched his hands out from their seats.” (Bukhari, Sıfat-ıs Salat: 39; Nesâî, İftitah: 93) hadiths were also reported from Enes (radiy-Allâhu anh). The hadith of Abu Humayd is hasan sahih. Scholars have adopted the form in this hadith and have accepted that men should spread their hands at their sides while bowing and prostrating.
262-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When one of you is in ruku', three times; If he says "Subhana Rabbiyalazim", his bowing will be complete, this is the least. When he prostrates, if he says "Subhana Rabbiyal a'la" three times during their prostration, their prostration will be complete, and this is the minimum amount to be said. (Bukhari, Sıfat-ıs Salat: 42; Nesâî, İftitah: 102) Huzeyfe and Ukbe b. A hadith was also narrated from Amir. There is a disconnection in the hadith of Ibn Mas'ud. Because Avn b. Abdullah b. Utba did not reach Ibn Mas'ud. Scholars acted according to this hadith. They adopted that no less than three tasbihat should be uttered in the bowing and prostration of a person praying. b. It is reported from Mubarak: “I like the imam to bring five tasbihat in his prayer so that the congregation can reach three tasbihat. Isaac and Abraham are of the same opinion.”
263-) It was narrated from Huzayfa (radiy-Allâhu anh): “He prayed together with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). While the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prostrates “Subhana Rabbiyalazim” in ruku; “Subhane Rabbiyel A'la,” he used to say. At the moment of his reciting, when the verse of mercy came, he would pause and ask for Allah's mercy, and when he came to the verse of punishment, he would pause and take refuge in Allah. (Bukhari, Sıfat-ıs Salat: 42; Nesai, İftitah: 102)
264-) A similar hadith was narrated from Shu'ba. This hadith is hasan authentic.
265-) Ali b. It was narrated from Abu Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade wearing silk and yellow-dyed clothes, wearing gold rings, and reciting the Qur'an in ruku.” (Muslim, Salat: 41; Nesai, Iftitah: 97) hadiths were also reported from Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Ali (radiyallahu anh) is hasan authentic. This is the opinion of the companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later scholars, and they considered it makruh to recite the Qur'an in ruku' and prostration.
266-) According to the narration from Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The prayer of a person who does not straighten his back after ruku' and sajdas is not permissible." (Bukhari, Sıfat-ıs Salat: 42; Nesâî, İftitah: 88) Ali b. Hadith was also narrated from Shayban, Enes, Abu Huraira and Rifaa ez-Zuraki. The hadith of Abu Mas'ud is hasan sahih. The Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and later scholars were of this opinion, and the waist should be straightened after prostration and bowing. Because of this hadith, Ahmad and Ishaq concluded that the prayer of a person who does not straighten his back due to prostration and ruku' is invalid. Abu Ma'mer's name is “Abdullah b. Sahber". The name of Ebû Mes'ûd el Ensari el Bedrî is Ukbe b. It is Amr.
267-) Ali b. According to the narration from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) lifted his head from bowing, he said, “Semi-Allahu limen hamideh, Rabbana ve lekl hamd miles semavati ve mile earth ve mile ma beyne huma ve mile ma şi te min Şey'in ba'du” he would say. (Bukhari, Sıfat-i Salat: 45; Muslim, Salat: 42) hadiths were also narrated from Ibn Omar, Ibn Abbas, Ibn Abi Evfa, Abu Juhayfe and Abu Said. This hadith of Ali (radiyallahu anh) is hasan authentic. This is the view of some scholars. In the same opinion, Shafii says that it should be said in all obligatory and supererogatory prayers. Some people of Kufa say that it is not said in obligatory prayers, it should be said in supererogatory prayers. Tirmidhi: Abu Salama, one of the narrators of the hadith, is called Macişuni because he is the son of Macişun.
268-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: say, praise be to the Lord and tainted, for the past sins of the person whose word corresponds to the word of the angels will be forgiven.” (Bukhari, Sıfat-ıs Salat: 44; Muslim, Salat: 42) This hadith is hasan authentic. This is the view of some of the Companions of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and later scholars. And, when the imâm says “Semiallahu limen hamideh”, the congregation behind him should say “Rabbena lakal hamd”. Ahmed is one of them. Ibn Sirin and others say that the congregation behind the imam should say "Semiallahu limen hamideh" and "Rabbena lakl hamd" just as the imam said. Shafi'i and Ishaq hold this view.
269-) Vâil b. According to the narration from Hujr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) praying, and he would put his knees before his hands when prostrating and raise his hands before his knees when he stood up.” (Muslim, Salat: 45; Nesai, Iftitah: 128) Hasan b. There is an excess in the hadith of Ali, Yazid b. Harun says: Sharik Asim b. He only narrated this hadith from Kuleyb. This hadith is hasan garib. We do not know anyone other than Sharik who narrated this hadith. Most of the scholars act according to this hadith and they say that the knees should be placed before the hands while going for prostration and the hands should be raised before the knees when standing up. Hemmâm b. While Asim was narrating this hadith, he skipped the Companions, that is, Vail b. He narrated the Hujr to us as if he had narrated it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) without saying it.
270-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Any of you puts his hands first, then his knees, like a camel crouching during prayer.” (Nesai, İftitah: 128; Dârimî, Salat: 74) The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan garib. We know this hadith only in this way, the narration of Abu'z Zinad. This hadith is also related to Abdullah b. It was also narrated from Said al Makburi, his father and Abu Huraira. b. Said el Makburî, one of the hadithists, Yahya b. Said al-Kattan and others consider them weak.
270-) Walking to the Eid Prayer
271-) Abu Humayd es Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anh): “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prostrated in prayer, he would put his forehead and nose on the ground, not sticking his arms to his sides, and put his hands at shoulder level.” (Muslim, Salat: 46; Nesai, Iftitah: 143) Ibn Abbas, Vâil b. Hadith was also narrated from Hujr and Abu Said. The hadith of Abu Humayd is hasan sahih. Scholars act according to this hadith, and the forehead and nose should be placed on the ground during prostration. Some scholars say it is permissible, while others say it is not.
272-) According to the narration from Abu Ishaq (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Barâ b. to Âzib; I asked him where the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would put his face when he was in prostration, and he replied, "Between his hands." (Nesâî, İftitah: 129) In this regard, Vâil b. Hadith was also narrated from Hujr and Abu Humayd. The hadith of barâ is hasan sahih garib. Some scholars used to act according to this hadith and put their hands close to their ears.
273-) Abbas b. According to the narration from Abdulmuttalib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the following from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “When a servant prostrates, all seven of his organs prostrate, his face, two hands, and two feet.” (Muslim, Salat: 44; Nesai, Iftitah: 130) Hadiths were also reported from Ibn Abbas, Abu Huraira, Jabir and Abu Said on this subject. The hadith of Abbas is hasan authentic. Scholars acted according to this hadith.
274-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was ordered to prostrate on his seven organs, and he was forbidden to collect his hair and clothes." (Muslim, Salat: 44; Nasai, Iftitah: 130) This hadith is hasan authentic.
275-) Ubeydullah b. Abdullah b. According to the narration from Akram al-Huzai (radiyallahu anh), he said: “I was on the plain of Namira in Arafat with my father, and a caravan came there and I saw that; The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) is praying. Abdullah says: I seem to see the whiteness of his armpits because he does not stick his arms to his armpits during prostration.” (Muslim, Salat: 45; Nesai, Iftitah: 142) Ibn Abbas, Ibn Buhayne, Jabir, Ahmer b. Cez', Meymûne, Ebû Humeyd, Ebû Mes'ûd, Ebû Useyd, Sahl b. Sad, Muhammed b. Mesleme, Berâ b. Âzib, Adıyy b. Hadith was also narrated from Amîre and Aisha (radiyallahu anha). Akbar b. Jaz' was one of the companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and narrated only one hadith. Abdullah b. The hadith of Akram is hasan. This hadith was only reported by Dawud b. We know from the narration of Kays. Abdullah b. We do not know that Akram narrated other hadiths from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Many scholars from the Companions acted according to this hadith. Abdullah b. Erkam ez-Zuhri is one of the companions of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and the secretary of Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh).
276-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you prostrates, he should not disturb others by spreading his arms like a dog spreads his arms, let him stand in a normal way.” (Nesai, İftitah: 140; Muslim, Salat: 45) Abdurrahman b. Hadiths were also narrated from Shibl, Enes, Bara, Abu Humayd and Aisha. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound. Scholars act according to this hadith, and they did not tolerate the spread of predatory animals that should stand normally during prostration.
277-) It was narrated from Qatada (radiyallahu anh). According to what I heard from Anas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Don't disturb those around you by spreading out like a dog's arms, just stand normally.” (Nesai, Iftitah: 140; Muslim, Salat: 45) the hadith is hasan sound.
278-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from the father of Ebî Wakkâs (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered the hands to be placed on the ground during prostration and the feet to be erect.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
279-) Âmir b. According to what is reported from Sa'd, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered the hands to be placed on the ground during prostration, and he quoted the same hadith, but did not mention his "father". Yahya b. Said al-Kattan and many others like Muhammad b. Aclan, Muhammed b. Ibrahim, Amir b. It is narrated from Sa'd; The hadith "The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) commanded to spread his hands on the ground and feet to stand up during prostration" is mursal and is more authentic than the hadith of Wuheyb, scholars agreed on this issue and preferred the form in this hadith.
279-) Shortening the Prayers on the Journey The original name in Arabic means "Ebvab-üs Sefer (Journey)" parts. We have translated it here as setting out for war, because there was no journey in the life of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as we know it except for war – except for the invitation and emigration.)
279-) Shortening the Prayers on the Journey The original name in Arabic means "Ebvab-üs Sefer (Journey)" parts. We have translated it here as setting out for war, because there was no journey in the life of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as we know it except for war – except for the invitation and emigration.)
279-) Shortening the Prayers on the Journey The original name in Arabic means "Ebvab-üs Sefer (Journey)" parts. We have translated it here as setting out for war, because there was no journey in the life of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as we know it except for war – except for the invitation and emigration.)
280-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to stand upright as soon as he stood up from ruku' and prostration." (Muslim, Salat: 46; Nesai, Iftitah: 88) A hadith was also reported from Enes on this subject.
281-) Muhammed b. Bashar narrated a similar hadith. The hadith of barâ is hasan authentic. Scholars made their practices according to this hadith.
282-) According to the narration from Bara (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When we prayed together with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), none of us would lower our backs until he lifted his head from ruku’ and went to prostrate, and when we got to that prostration, we would prostrate ourselves.” (Muslim, Salat: 25; Dârimî, Salat: 72) hadiths were also narrated from Ibn Mes'ade and Abu Huraira, who were known as Anas, Muaviye, Sahib-ül Cüyûş. The hadith of Bara is hasan sound. The men act according to this hadith and say: The congregation behind the imam will follow the imam in every way. When the imâm goes to ruku', they will go to ruku' and when he gets up, they will stand up too. No one thinks about it.
283-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Ali, what I love for myself; I also love for you, what I dislike for myself; I don't like it for you either, so don't sit on your hips by spreading your heels between two prostrations!” (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 22) We know this hadith only in the form of Abu Ishaq from Haris. Some scholars have noted that the one-eyed Haris, who narrated the hadith, was weak. Many scholars did not like to sit with their heels on and act on this hadith. Also, hadiths were narrated from Aisha, Anas and Abu Huraira on this subject.
284-) According to the narration from Abu'z Zubayr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard from Taus: “We asked Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) about the ruling of sitting with the heels up.” “It is circumcision,” he said. We said, “We think it will cause trouble for the person or the foot”. He said, "It is the sunnah of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)". (Ibn Majah, Iqama: 22; Muslim, Salat: 46) This hadith is hasan authentic. Scientists do their practices with this hadith and they do not see any harm in sitting with their feet up. Some scholars and fiqh scholars from Mecca also hold this view. Most of his men did not like to sit with their feet up between two prostrations.
285-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said between two prostrations: “Allahummaghfirli verhamni vecburni vehdini verzukni” (O Allah forgive me, have mercy on me and guide me to the right path. and provide me with good sustenance in this world and in the hereafter). (Muslim, Salat: 42; Ibn Majah: Substitution: 23)
286-) Hasan b. Ali el Hallâl (Hulvanî), Yazîd b. Harun, Zayd b. A similar hadith was narrated from Hubab, Kamil Abul A'la. This hadith is garib. Similarly, it was narrated from Ali (radiyallahu anh) in this way. Imam-i Shafii, Ahmad and Ishaq considered it permissible to recite this prayer in all obligatory and supererogatory prayers. Some scholars have narrated this hadith from Kamil and Ebul A'la as mursal.
287-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: "The Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) complained that it would be difficult to spread his hands from the sides, stomach and knees in prostration. They said, "Relax by resting your elbows on the knees." (Dârimî, Salat: 79; İbn Mâce: İkame: 21) This hadith is strange. We know this hadith only by the narration of Abu Salih from Abu Huraira, and Lays and Ibn Aclan are also narrators of the hadith.
288-) Malik b. According to what is reported from Huwayris al-Leysi (radiy-Allâhu anh): “Malik saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) praying. He would not stand up without doing the sitting, which is called resting, in one rak'ah of the prayer." (Nesâî, İftitah: 179) Mâlik b. The hadith of Huwayris is hasan authentic. Some scholars act on this hadith. This is the view of Isaac and some of our friends. Malik's patronymic is Abu Suleiman.
289-) It was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up from the prostrations, his backs would not touch the ground.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) The practices of scholars are similar to this hadith, and they preferred to stand up without touching the ground with the tops of the feet in the first and third rak'ahs. b. Iyas is considered weak by the Muhaddis. Khalid b. It is called Iyas. To Salih, the freedman of Tev'eme, to Salih b. He is called Abi Salih. Abu Salih's name is Nebhan and he is from Medina.
290-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) taught us to read when we sat in two rak'ahs: All the acts of worship done with our bodies and all our possessions are for Allah alone. All servitude and worship cannot be done to anyone other than him. O Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), the last Prophet! May Allah's mercy, blessings and peace be upon you. Again, the peace and happiness of Allah is upon us and Allah's; May it be upon His servants who do good and good deeds. I accept and testify that there is no true god but Allah. Again, I accept and testify that Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) is Allah’s servant and prophet.” (Nesai, İftitah: 193; İbn Mâce, İkame: 24) hadiths were also narrated from Ibn Omar, Jabir, Abu Musa and Aisha. The hadith of Ibn Mas'ud was also narrated in other ways. This is the most authentic hadith related to tashahhud from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Many of the Companions and followers of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) act upon this hadith. Sufyan es Sevrî, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. b. Muhammed b. Moses told us. Abdullah b. Mubarak, quoting from Ma'mer and Husayf, said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in my dream and O Messenger of Allah! People differed about tashahhud, so I said what should we do. They said, "Hold on to the tashahhud of Ibn Mas'ud."
291-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) taught us tashahhadu as the Qur'an taught us, and he said: All the acts of worship done with our bodies and all our possessions are for Allah alone. . All servitude and worship cannot be done to anyone other than him. O Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), the last Prophet! May Allah's mercy, blessings and peace be upon you. Again, the peace and happiness of Allah is upon us and Allah's; May it be upon His servants who do good and good deeds. I accept and testify that there is no true god but Allah. Again, I accept and testify that Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) is Allah’s servant and prophet.” (Nesâî, İftitah: 191; İbn Mâce, İkame: 24) The hadith of Ibn Abbas hasan garib is authentic. Abdurrahman b. Humayd er Ruasi reported this hadith from Leys b. He narrated it from Abu'z Zubayr like Sa'd's narration. Eymen b. Nabil al-Makki narrated this hadith from Abu'z Zubayr, Jabir and it is not reserved. Imam-i Shafi'i: This hadith of Ibn 'Abbas was guided by the subject of tashahhud.
292-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: "It is sunnah to recite tashahhud secretly." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 179) The hadith of Ibn Mas'ud is hasan garib. people made their practices according to this hadith.
293-) Vâil b. According to the narration from Hujr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I came to Medina, I wanted to see how the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed, when he sat for tashahhud, he spread his left foot and put his right foot on his thighs.” (Nesai, İftitah: 186; İbn Mâce, İkame: 22) This hadith is hasan authentic. Many scholars act upon this hadith.
294-) Sahl b. According to what Sa'd es Saidî (radiy-Allâhu anh) told us, he said: Abu Humeyd, Ebû Useyd, Sahl b. Sa'd and Muhammed b. Maslama got together and began to discuss how the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) prayed and Abu Humayd said: "When the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) sits in prayer, he spreads his left foot, turns the top of his right foot towards the qibla and places his hands on his knees. He used to point with the finger of martyrdom.” (Nesai, İftitah: 186; İbn Mâce, İkame: 22) This hadith is hasan authentic. This is the opinion of scholars. Shafii, Ahmad and Ishaq are among them, “Based on the hadith of Abu Humayd; in the first sitting, planting your right foot on your left foot; In the second sitting, they say that one should sit on the hips by putting the feet to the right.
295-) It was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): “When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sat in the tashahhud of the prayer, he would put his hands on his knees and pray, pointing with the finger that came after the thumb of his right hand.” (Dârimî, Salat: 83; Nesâî, İftitah: 189) Abdullah b. Zübeyr, Numayr el Huzai, Abu Huraira, Abu Humayd and Vâil b. Hadith was also narrated from Hucr. The hadith of Ibn 'Umar is hasan garib and in this form, Ubeydullah b. We know from the story of Omar. Some scholars from the Companions and his followers acted according to this hadith and preferred to raise their fingers in tashahhud. they are of the same opinion.
296-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to greet at the end of the prayer by saying Essalamu alaikum and Rahmetullah to his right and left." (Dârimî, Salat: 87; İbn Mâce, İkame: 28) Sa'd b. Ebî Vakkâs, İbn Ömer, Câbir b. Semure, Berâ b. Âzib, Ebû Said, Ammar, Vâil b. Hucr, Adiy b. Amire and Câbir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah. The hadith of Ibn Mas'ud is hasan authentic. Many scholars of the Companions and Tabi'in period practiced this way, including Sufyan es Sevrî, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Ahmed and Ishaq.
297-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) reported: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would come out of the prayer, he would salute in front of him once and bow a little to his right.” (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 29) on the subject of Sahl b. The hadith was narrated from Sa'd. We know the hadith of Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) in this way, as it was conveyed to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). b. Ismail says: Zuhayr b. From Muhammad, the people of Damascus cite unpleasant hadiths. The narration of the Iraqis is more authentic. Ahmed b. Hanbal, he says: Zuhayr b. Muhammad is not the person reported in Iraq, but another person whose name they changed. Some scholars say the following about salutation: The best narration from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) is to greet twice. This is the view of the Companions and subsequent scholars. Some of the companions of the Companions (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and those who came after them are of the opinion that salam is given alone in obligatory prayers. Shafi'i says that if a person wishes, he can greet only once, if he wishes, he can say two greetings.
298-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "It is sunnah not to prolong the words and letters of the greeting." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 183) b. Hujr says that Ibn al-Mubarak interpreted this hadith as follows. In other words, he gives "the letters of greeting without prolonging". This hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars consider this form mustahab. It is narrated that Ibrahim Nehai said: Takbir and salutation should be done without prolonging it. It is said that he was Evzâî's clerk.
299-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “After the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saluted, he would sit until he said, “Allahumma antessalam veminkes salam tabarakta zelcelali velikram”. (O Allah, you are far away from all kinds of evil and deficiencies, all kinds of peace, comfort and well-being are in you. How blessed are you, who is the owner of magnificence and honor.)” (Muslim, Masajid: 26; Ibn Majah, Ikame: 32)
300-) Hennad (radiy-Allâhu anh) conveyed a similar hadith to us in the same deed and added “Ya” after the word “blessed”. (Muslim, Mesajid: 27) Sevban, Ibn Omar, Ibn Abbas, Abu Said, Abu Huraira and Mughire b. A hadith was also reported from Shu'ba. Aisha's hadith (298) is hasan authentic. Abdullah b. He transferred it to us through Haris and Asım. From the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); after the salutation: there is no other deity, there is only Him, He has no partner, all authority and dominion belongs to him, and every perfect praise belongs to him. It is He who gives life and brings death, His power is enough for everything. O Allah, there is no one who can prevent what you have given, and there is no one who can not give what you do not give, and without your help, no strength will benefit anyone with power. Exalted is your Lord, the mighty and the mighty, above what all the disbelievers describe. Peace be upon all the Prophets sent, all praise is due to Allah, the Creator of the worlds.) (37 Saffat 180-182)
301-) According to what is quoted from Sawban, the freed slave of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), he said: "When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) wanted to leave the prayer, he would say estaghfirullah three times and then recite Allahumma entes-salamu veminkessaamu tabarekta Yazelcel prayer." (Muslim, Masajid: 26; Ibn Majah, Iqama: 32) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Ammar's name is Şeddâd b. Abdullah.
302-) Kabîsa b. According to the narration from Hulb's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father, he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would become our imam and at the end of the prayer, he would turn on both sides of his seat and leave.” (İbn Mâce, İkame: 33) Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Enes, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr and Abu Huraira. This hadith of Hulb is hasan sahih. Scholars say that by acting on this hadith, the imam can leave his place by turning in any direction he wishes. The issue of turning from the right and left sides has been reported authentically. b. Abi Talib says: He gets up from wherever the need of the imam is.
303-) Rifaa b. According to what was reported from Rafi' (radiyallahu anh), he said: "While I was sitting in the mosque with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), a bedouin came and prayed lightly and greeted the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). 'alaihi wa sallam) received his greeting and come back and pray again because you did not pray. The man turned and prayed, came back and saluted again. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) again received the greeting and said, "Come back and pray again because you are not considered to have prayed." This person repeated this situation two or three times. The fact that he said return to the person and pray again made people uneasy and the situation was difficult for them. The last time the man said: Show me and teach me because I am human, I can be right or I can make a mistake. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Yes," and said: "When you pray, perform ablution as Allah has ordered, then testify, testify, read if you know something from the Qur'an, and if you do not know, bring praise to Allah, say Lailahe illallah, and then bow." Go to ', do the ruku' comfortably, then stand up straight, then do the prostration properly, then sit down, do the sitting sitting upright, then get up and complete all the rak'ahs in this way. If you do this, your prayer is complete, if you miss any of them, your prayer will be incomplete.” Rifaa says: This rule was easier than the previous rule, so they learned that the reward of a person who performs his prayers incompletely will decrease and his prayer will not be completely destroyed. (Dârimî, Salat: 78) Ebû Hüreyre and Ammar b. A hadith was also narrated from Yasir. The hadith of Rifaa is hasan. This hadith has also been narrated in other ways than Rifaa.
304-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered the mosque. A man entered the mosque and prayed, when he finished his prayer, he came and greeted the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) greeted that person and pray again because you did not pray." That man came back and prayed again in the same way, came and greeted the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) greeted him, and come back and repeat your prayer because you did not pray. He said this situation three times. He repeated and said: I swear by Allah, who sent you with the truth, that I do not know any better than this, teach me the truth. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When you are going to pray, say takbir, then read what is easy from the Qur'an, then perform the ruku' comfortably, then stand up straight, then perform the prostrations properly, then get up and sit up straight. Do all the rak'ahs of your prayer like this." (Dârimî, Salat: 78 This hadith is hasan authentic. Numayr narrated this hadith from Ubeydullah b. Ömer, Saîd el Makburî and Abu Hurayra and did not record the "From Said's father" part. Yahya b. Said's Ubeydullah The narration from b. Omar is more authentic. Said al Makburi heard it personally from Abu Hurayra, but narrated it through his father. Abu Said al Makburi's name is Keysân.
305-) According to what Abu Humayd es Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated, he said: Upon this, those of you who knew the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) best said to me: "You are not older than us in being a Muslim, and you are not one of the people who visit the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) the most." He said: Yes, then tell us. they said; He also said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) started the prayer, he would stand straight, raise his hands up to shoulder level and say takbir, then when he wanted to go into ruku', he would raise his hands to the level of his shoulders again and say takbir to reach ruku'. In ruku', he would stand in a straight position, neither hanging his head down nor upright, placing his hands on his knees, then saying "Semiallahu limen hamideh", raising his hands and straightening up, his body would be exactly as he was standing. Then he would bend down to go to prostration, say Allahu Akbar, spread his arms from his seats, let his toes free, sit on it with his left foot bent and stand upright, then he would go down to the second prostration by saying Allahu Akbar, bend his left foot and sit on it and stand upright, and then stand up for the second rak'ah. 'He used to do the same in the horse, when he got up from two prostrations, he would say takbir, raise his hands up to the level of his shoulders, perform all the rak'ahs in this way, like the takbir he took when starting the first prayer. (Darimi, Salat: 92) This hadith is hasan authentic. The expression "when you get up from two prostrations" in the hadith means when you complete two rak'ahs.
306-) Muhammed b. Amr b. According to the narration from Ata (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I heard Abu Humayd es Saidi among ten of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), among them Abu Qatada b. He said, "Rib'i had it," and quoted the same hadith as the previous hadith, but added the following: "You told the truth. This is how the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray.” (Dârimî, Salat: 92) Ebû Asım Zahhak b. Mahled reported this hadith from Abdulhamid b. Narrating from Cafer: “You told the truth. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to do it exactly like that.”
307-) Qutb b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I listened to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) reciting the tenth verse of the Qaf period in the first rak'ah of the morning prayer." (Nesai, İftitah: 38; Dârimî, Salat: 66) Amr b. Hureys, Câbir b. Samura, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Saib, Abu Barza and Umm Salama. Qutb b. The hadith of Malik is hasan sound. It is also narrated that (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) recited the surah of fact in the morning prayer. There is also a narration that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would recite 60 to 100 verses in the morning prayer. It is also narrated that he recited Surah Takvir. According to what is reported from Umar (radiyallahu anh), he informed Abu Musa in writing to recite long suras in the morning prayer. Scholars have acted upon this hadith. Sûfyan es Sevrî, İbn'ül Mubarak and Shafii are of this opinion.
308-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite Surahs like Bürüc, Tariq and similar ones during the noon and afternoon prayers.” (Nesai, İftitah: 55; Muslim, Salat: 34) Habbab, Ebû Said, Ebû Katade, Zayd b. Sabit and Barâ b. A hadith was also narrated from Azib. Jabir b. The hadith of Samura is hasan sahih. It is also narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited as much as the surah of prostration in the noon prayer. It was also narrated that he recited thirty verses in the first rak'ah of the noon prayer and fifteen verses in the second rak'ah. It is also narrated that Umar informed Abu Musa in writing to recite the middle surahs in the noon prayer. It has been narrated that some scholars will recite short suras like the evening prayer in the afternoon prayer. İbrahim Nehai says that the recitation of the afternoon prayer is equal to the recitation of the evening prayer. Ibrahim says: The recitation of the noon prayer is four times more than the afternoon prayer.
309-) According to the narration from Ummul Fadl (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led the evening prayer for us even though he had a concussion at the time of his last illness, and he recited Surah Mursalat, then he passed away without performing the evening prayer again. ” (Muslim, Salat: 36; Nesai, Iftitah: 62) In this regard, Jubayr b. Mut'ım, Ibn Omar, Abu Ayyub, Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit. The hadith of Ummul Fadl is hasan authentic. It is also narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the chapter of Araf completely in the two rak'ahs of the evening prayer. It is also narrated that he recited the Surah of Tur in the Maghrib prayer. It is also narrated that Umar (radiyallahu anh) told Abu Musa to recite short suras in the evening prayer in writing. It is also among the narrations that Bakr (radiyallahu anh) recited short suras in the evening prayer, and scholars acted accordingly. Ibn al-Mubarak Ahmad and Ishaq are among them. says: It has been narrated from Malik that it is makruh to recite long suras such as Tur and Mursalat in the evening prayer. However, I find it mustahab to recite these and similar surahs in the evening prayer.
310-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from the father of Burayda (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite Shams and similar surahs during the night prayer." (Muslim, Salat: 36) In this regard, Barâ b. Hadith was also narrated from Azib and Anas. The hadith of Burayda is hasan. It is also narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the chapter of Tîn during the night prayer. According to the narration from Uthman (radiyallahu anh), he would recite Munafiqun and similar suras during the night prayer. According to the narrations from the Companions and followers of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) it is said that there is a wide range of what to read in the night prayer, and that longer and shorter suras can be read than what is said. The best narration in this regard is the one related to the reading of the Shams and Tîn surahs in the night prayer.
311-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiyallahu anh), "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite the chapter "Tin" in the night prayer." (Muslim, Salat: 36; Nasai, Iftitah: 70) This hadith is hasan authentic.
312-) Ubade b. According to the narration from as-Samit (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) once led the morning prayer and had difficulty in reading it. We said yes, I swear we are reading. Then, don't do that, just read the Fatiha, because they said, "There is no prayer for those who do not read Surah Fatiha." (Muslim, Salat: 12; Nesai, Iftitah: 28) Abu Hurayra, Aisha, Enes, Abu Katade and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Ubade is hasan. Zuhri reported this hadith from Mahmud b. Rabi and Ubade b. He conveys it through Samit and says: "There is no prayer for those who do not recite Fatiha." This story is more authentic. and many of the scholars said that it is necessary to read behind the imam, and they practiced it with this hadith. Malik b. Anas, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are of the opinion that reading behind the imam is necessary.
313-) It was narrated from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) finished his prayer in a prayer that he read aloud, they asked: Did any of you recite with me while I was praying? When a man says yes, O Messenger of Allah; “I was wondering why my reading is being interfered with!” they ordered. Hearing this, the Companions stopped reading the prayers that the Messenger of Allah recited aloud with him.” (Nesai, Iftitah: 29; Muslim, Salat: 12) Ibn Mas'ud, Imran b. Husayn, Câbir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah. This hadith is hasan. The name of Ibn-u Ukeyma Elleysi was Umare, and Amr b. It is also called curdling. Some of his friends narrated the same hadith and added the following: “When people heard this from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), they stopped reading.” There is nothing in the hadith that contradicts those who accept to read behind the imam. Because Abu Hurayra, who narrated this hadith, has another narration as follows: “If a person does not recite Surah Fatiha during the prayer, his prayer is incomplete; it is not ok. One of the hadith narrators said to Abu Huraira: "Sometimes I am behind the imam, what should I do? Abu Huraira also said, "Read through your heart." In a hadith narrated by Abu Huraira, Osman an Nehdi states the following: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered me to declare that there is no prayer without reciting Surah Fatiha." On the other hand, they say: In the prayers that the imam reads aloud, they should listen to the imam without reading, and they should read during those times by following the stops made by the imam at the time of reading. His men had different opinions on the issue of reading behind the imam, and many of the Companions and followers of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) were of the opinion that it should be read behind the imam. Malik b. Enes, Abdullah b. Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. Abdullah b. It has been reported that Mubarak said: "I read behind the imam, everyone also reads, only some people from Kufa do not, I think their prayers are also permissible." Scholars acted severely on this issue and said, "There can be no prayer without reciting the Fatiha, whether on its own or behind the imam." Ubade b. They rely on the hadith of Samit. Ubade b. After the death of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), Samit recited the chapter of Fatiha behind the imam and acted on the hadith, "There is no prayer without reading the chapter of Fatiha". Shafi'i, Ishaq and some others hold this view. b. Hanbal says: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "There is no prayer for those who do not recite the Fatiha." The meaning of the hadith is for those who pray alone without congregation. Ahmed b. Hanbal had this opinion by citing the hadith of Jabir numbered 313 as evidence and says: The person who narrated this hadith was one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and interpreted the phrase "There is no prayer without reciting Surah Fatiha" for those who pray alone. Despite all this, Ahmed b. Hanbal: prefers that one should recite the Fatiha, even behind the imam or by himself.
314-) Vehb b. Keysân, Câbir b. He said that he heard Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anh) say: “Whoever performs a prayer and does not recite Surah Fatiha in that prayer is considered not to have prayed. However, if he performs it with the imam, then his prayer will be valid even if he does not recite the Fatiha.” (Nesai, Iftitah: 24; Muslim, Salat: 11) This hadith is hasan authentic.
315-) According to the narration from Fatimatül-Kübra (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered the mosque, he would send blessings and greetings and say: “My Lord, forgive my sins, open the doors of mercy.” Again, while leaving the masjid, he would send salat and greetings and pray: "My Lord, forgive my sins, open all the doors of blessings". (Nesai, Mesajid: 16; İbn Mâce, Mesajid: 13)
316-) İsmail b. According to a narration from Ibrahim (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abdullah b. I met Hasan in Mecca and asked him about this hadith. When leaving the masjid, he would pray by saying: “Open all the doors of blessings”. (Nesai, Mesacid: 16; Ibn Mâce, Mesacid: 13) Hadiths were also narrated from Abu Humayd, Abu Useyd and Abu Huraira on this subject. The hadith of Fatima is hasan and there is a disconnection in its deed. Because Hüseyin's daughter Fatima could not reach her grandmother Fatima-tül Kübra and narrate hadiths from her, and Fatima-tül Kübra lived only a few months after the death of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam).
317-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When one of you enters the mosque, he should pray two rak'ahs before sitting down." (Nesâî, Mesacid, 37; Dârimî, Salat: 114) In this regard, Câbir, Ebû Ümame, Ebû Hüreyre, Ebû Zerr and Ka'b b. Hadith was narrated from Malik. The hadith of Abu Qatada is hasan sahih. hadith Muhammad b. Aclan and other people, Âmir b. Abdullah b. Zubayr through Malik b. The hadith was narrated similar to the narration of Anas. Süheyl b. Abu Salih narrated this hadith from Amir b. Abdullah b. Zubayr and Amr b. It is narrated by Sulaym al-Zuraki and Jabir that it is not authentic. The hadith of Abu Qatada is authentic. Acting on this hadith, hadith scholars consider it mustahab for a person who enters the mosque to pray two rak'ahs before sitting, unless he has an excuse. b. al Medînî says: Süheyl b. The hadith of Abu Salih is false. Ishaq b. Ibrahim, Ali b. He informed me of this through al-Madinî.
318-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "All of the earth is a masjid, except for cemeteries and baths, that is, prayers can be performed." (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 24; Dârimî, Salat: 111) In this regard, Ali, Abdullah b. A hadith was also reported from Amr, Abu Huraira, Jabir, Ibn Abbas, Huzayfa, Anas, Abu Umama, Abu Dharr, and they quoted the following hadith of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): "The whole earth has been made a mosque and a cleaner for me." This hadith of Abu Said Abdulaziz b. It came from Muhammad as two separate narrations, and sometimes Abu Said is mentioned among those who narrate it, and in others it is not, so there is confusion in this hadith. The hadith of Sûfyan es Sevrî, Amr b. He narrated from Yahya and his father as Mursel. Again, Hammad b. Salama de Amr b. Yahya transmitted this hadith to us from his father and through Abu Said. Muhammed b. In Ishaq, Amr b. Narrating from Yahya and his father, he says: Yahya's narration is mostly through Abu Said, but he did not mention Abu Said in this narration. Amr b. The narration from Yahya and his father is like a mursal sounder and more authentic.
319-) Osman b. According to a narration from Affan (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Whoever builds a mosque for the sake of Allah, Allah will build him a house in Paradise for him.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 12; Dârimî, Salat: 113), Abu Bakr, Ömer, Ali, Abdullah b. Amr, Anas, Ibn Abbas, Aisha, Umm Habibe, Abu Dharr, Amr b. Abese, Vasile b. Hadith was also narrated from Eska, Abu Huraira, and Jabir. This hadith of Uthman is hasan authentic. b. Labîd is one of those who saw the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Mahmud b. Rabi', on the other hand, was one of the people who had grown up with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and they were both young men from Medina.
320-) According to what was reported from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he said: "Whoever builds a mosque, big or small, in order to gain Allah's approval, Allah will build him a house in Paradise." (It was narrated by Tirmidhi) hadith likewise from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) to Kutayba, Nuh b. Kays was also narrated through Abdurrahman, the freed slave of Kays, Ziyâd en Numayri and Enes.
321-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed the women who visit the graves, those who pray on the graves and those who light lamps on the graves, that is, in order to keep them away from Allah's mercy. he cursed.” (Nesai, Cenaiz: 106; Ibn Mâce, Cenaiz: 49) hadiths were also narrated from Abu Hurayra and Aisha. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan. The person named Abu Salih, mentioned here, is the freed slave of Abu Talib's daughter, Umm Hani, and her name is Bazan. It is called Bazam.
322-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Even though we were young, we slept in the mosque at the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Ibn Majah, Masajid: 6; Dârimî, Salat: 117) The hadith of Ibn Omar is hasan authentic. Some of the scholars have considered it permissible to sleep in the mosque. Ibn Abbas says that the masjid should not be turned into a sleeping place for night and day sleep. Some scholars also hold this view.
323-) Amr b. According to what Shuayb (radiyallahu anh) narrated from his father and his grandfather: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade reciting poems in the mosque, shopping and gathering in the mosque before the Friday prayer." (Darimi, Salat: 118; Nesai, Mesacid: 23) Hadiths were also reported from Burayda, Jabir and Anas on this subject. Abdullah b. Amr b. The hadith of As is hasan. Amr b. Shuayb, Amr b. He is the son of As. Muhammed b. Ismail says: Ahmed Ishaq and some other people Amr b. They judged and acted according to the hadith of Shuayb. Muhammad says: Shuayb b. Muhammad's grandfather Abdullah b. Heard it from Amr. Amr b. Those who talked about the hadith of Shuayb considered him weak because he had narrated the hadith from his grandfather's page. It is as if they think that he did not hear the hadiths he narrated from his grandfather. b. Abdillah says: Yahya b. It is reported that Said said: Amr b. Shuayb's hadith is not considered acceptable in our opinion. Some of the scholars did not welcome shopping in the mosque, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. It has been reported that some of the scholars of Tabiun also allowed shopping in the masjid. A hadith has been narrated from (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) giving permission to sing poetry in the mosque.
324-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Amr b. One of the sons of Awf had a dispute about the mosque, whose foundations were laid on taqwa. Al-Khudri said that it is the mosque of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the other said that it is the mosque of Quba. Thereupon, they brought this matter to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and asked him: This is the mosque. He said, "That is, he means his own mosque" and there is a lot of goodness here. (Muslim, Hajj: 96; Nasai, Masajid: 8) This hadith is hasan authentic. Bekir, Ali b. It is narrated from Abdillah: Yahya b. Said'e Muhammed b. I asked Yahya al Eslemi and he said: He is harmless, but his brother Unays b. Ebi Yahya is a stronger person than him.
325-) Usayd b. According to what was heard from Zuhayr al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh), who was one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), a hadith reported, he said: “Performing prayers in the Quba mosque brings rewards like Umrah.” (Muslim, Hajj: 97; Nesai, Mesacid: 9) Sahl b. Hadith was also narrated from Hunayf. The hadith of Usayd is hasan garib. b. We do not know any authentic narration of Zuhayr other than this hadith. This is only Abu Usama's Abdulhamid b. We learn from the narration he made through Cafer. Ebred's name is Ziyâd Madani.
326-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The prayer in my mosque is better than a thousand prayers in other mosques except the Masjid.” (Muslim, Hajj: 94; Nasai, Mesacid: 10) Qutayba skipped this hadith, "Ubeydullah", and wrote to Zayd b. He narrates the hadith by saying Rebah and Abu Abdullah el Eghar. This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Abdullah el Egar's name is Salman. The hadith was also narrated in different ways by Abu Huraira. In this respect; Ali, Maymûne, Ebû Said, Cübeyr b. Mut'ım, İbn Ömer, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Zubayr and Abu Dharr.
327-) According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “You can only go on a journey to visit three mosques or to pray; Al-Masjid al-Haram in Mecca, my mosque in Medina, and Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem.” (Ibn Majah, Iqama: 195; Muslim, Hajj: 95) This hadith is hasan authentic.
328-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When the prayer starts, you can reach the rak'ahs by walking, not by running, in order to catch up with the prayer, without disturbing the congregation. finish it later.” (Muslim, Mesacid: 28; Nesai, Imam: 57) Abu Qatade, Ubey b. Ka'b, Abu Said and Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit, Jabir and Anas. Scholars have had different views on this subject, some of them are of the opinion that the person who is afraid of missing the first takbir of the prayer should catch up by running quickly, some of them did not like to catch up by running and preferred to reach the prayer by walking comfortably. Ahmad and Ishaq act exactly according to the hadith of Abu Hurayra.
329-) Hasan b. Another similar hadith was narrated by Ali al-Hallal. Likewise, Said b. It was narrated by Musayyeb and Abu Huraira. This narration is more authentic than Zuray's hadith.
330-) Another hadith similar to the previous hadith was narrated by Ibn Abi Umar.
331-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “As long as one of you waits for prayer, he will receive rewards as if he were in prayer. He said that while he was in the mosque, the angels would pray to that person until he made Hades, "O Allah, forgive him and have mercy on him." What is Hades, a man from Hadramites? When you say O Abu Huraira; Abu Huraira replied, "Flying loudly or silently, that is, breaking the wudu." (Nesâî, Sahv: 103; Muslim, Mesacid: 49) Ali, Ebû Said, Enes, Abdullah b. Mes'ud and Sahl b. A hadith was also narrated from Sa'd. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
332-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray on a small prayer mat.” (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 63) On this subject, hadiths were narrated from Umm Habibe, Ibn Omar, Umm Sulaym, Aisha, Maymuna, and Umm Kulthum bint ebî Salama b. Abdil Asad did not hear any hadith from Umm Salama or the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Some scholars hold this view. Ahmed and Ishaq say: Thus, it has been established that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) prayed on a prayer mat. A date is a small piece of straw.
333-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed on a straw mat.” (İbn Mâce, İkame: 63) In this regard, Enes and Muğre b. A hadith was also reported from Shu'ba. The hadith of Abu Said is hasan. Many of his men acted upon this hadith. Some scholars have tolerated praying on the ground. Abu Sufyan's name was Talha b. It is Nafi.
334-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to join us among the children and told my little brother; O Abu Umair, what is the baby bird doing? Anas says: We had a mat, it was cleaned by sprinkling water on it, and the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) prayed on it. (Bukhari, Adab: 64; Muslim, Mesacid, 54) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic. The majority of the Companions and the scholars of the Tabi'in period acted on this hadith and they do not see any harm in praying on different exhibits (carpet, rug, blanket). Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Ebûttayyah's name is Yazîd b. Humayd.
335-) Muâz b. According to what is reported from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) liked to pray in open places (in gardens).” (Tirmidhi narrated it.) Dâvûd says: It means Hıytan (Bostans). The hadith of muaz is strange. This hadith was only reported by Hasan b. We know from the narration of Abu Jafar. Yahya b. Said and others Hasan b. Abi Jafari considered them weak. Abu'z Zubayr's name is Muhammad b. Muslim b. It is Tedrus. Ebût-Tufeyl's name is Amir b. Vasile.
336-) Musa b. Abi Talha (radiyallahu anh) said in a narration from his father: "While one of you is praying, he should put something the size of a piece of wood on which he used to stand while riding an animal and perform his prayer, and he should not care about those who pass behind him." (Muslim, Salat: 50; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 110) Abu Huraira, Sahl b. Abi Hamsa, Ibn Omar, Sebre b. Hadiths were also narrated from Mabed al-Cuheni, Abu Juhayfe and Aisha. The hadith of Talha is hasan authentic. Scholars acted on this hadith and said that the suture of the imam is also valid for the congregation.
337-) Büsr b. According to the narration from Said (radiyallahu anh), Zayd b. Khalid al-Juheni asked Abu Juhaym what he heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the case of passing in front of the person praying. Abu Juhaym said; The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If the person passing in front of the person praying knew how much sin he has committed, it would be better for him to wait forty so long instead of passing in front of him." Abun Nadr says: Forty days? Forty months? Forty years? said I don't know. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 108; Nesai, Qibla: 8) In this regard, Abu Said al-Khudri, Abu Huraira, Ibn Omar and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Abu Juhaym is hasan authentic. It is also reported that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is better for one of you to stand and wait for a hundred years than to pass in front of his brother who is praying. His men acted according to this hadith and considered it makruh to pass in front of the person praying, but they were convinced that he did not interrupt his prayer. Nadr's name is Sâlim, Amr b. He is the freed slave of Abdullah al-Madinî.
338-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I was behind Fazl on a thousand feet. While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and his companions were praying in Mina, we came to them and got off the board and stood in front of the donkey rows. passed and did not interfere with their prayers.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 112) Aisha, Fadl b. Hadith was also narrated from Abbas and Ibn Umar. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Many of the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the scholars of the Tabi'un period acted on this hadith and said: “Nothing interrupts the prayer, that is, it does not prevent it.” Sûfyan as-Sevri and Shafii are of this opinion.
339-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person prays without putting anything in front of him, even the wood in front of or behind the animal saddle, the black dog passing in front of him. The woman and the donkey break his prayer by cutting it off. I asked Abu Dharr; How is a black dog different from a red and white dog? He said: "O son of my brother, you asked me what I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The black dog is the devil." (Nesai, Qibla: 7; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 113) In this regard, Ebû Said, Hakim b. Hadiths were also narrated from Amr al-Gifari, Abu Huraira and Anas. The hadith of Abu Dharr is hasan authentic. Scholars acted on this hadith and said that donkeys, women and black dogs interrupt prayers. says: The black dog interrupts the prayer, I have no doubt about it, but I am skeptical about women and donkeys. says: Nothing interrupts the prayer except the black dog.
340-) Amr b. According to what is reported from Abu Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh), Amr saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) praying in one layer of clothing in Umm Salama's house. (Nesai, Qibla: 15) Abu Huraira, Jabir, Salama b. al Ekva, Enes, Amr b. Ebi Useyd, Ubade b. Sâmit, Ebû Said, Keysân, İbn Abbas, Aisha, Umm Hani and Ammar b. Yasir, Talk b. Hadith was also narrated from Ali, Shamil al-Ansari. Amr b. The hadith of Abu Salama is hasan authentic. Most of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the scholars of later periods acted according to this hadith, and they say, "There is no harm in performing prayers while wearing only one dress." Scholars, on the other hand, say that it is better for a person to pray in two layers of clothing.
341-) Barâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: After the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to Medina, he prayed towards the Bayti Makdis in Jerusalem for sixteen and seventeen months. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to want to pray facing towards the Kaaba. Then the following verse was revealed; “O Prophet! We see that your face is turned towards the sky, waiting for news from Allah and Jibril. From now on, turn your face towards Masjid Haram, wherever you are, turn your faces in that direction.” (2 Baccarat 144) his direction was thus turned towards the Kaaba. He wanted it very much. After a man prayed the afternoon prayer towards the Kaaba with the Prophet, he stopped by a group of Ansar, they were performing the afternoon prayer towards Bayti Makdis and were in a state of ruku'. He testified that he was praying towards the Kaaba with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said that the prayer began by turning to the Kaaba. Even though they were in ruku', they changed their direction. (Nesai, Qibla: 1; Muwatta, Qibla: 4) Ibn Omar, Ibn Abbas, Umare b. Evs, Amr b. Hadith was also narrated from Avf el Muzeni and Enes. The hadith of barâ is hasan authentic. It is also narrated from Sufyan as-Tevri and Abu Ishaq in the same way.
342-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "They were in the morning prayer and in the ruku' position." (Nesai, Qibla: 34) The hadith of Ibn Omar is hasan.
343-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The distance between east and west is considered a qibla." (Ibn Majah, Substitution: 60)
344-) A similar hadith was narrated from Abu Ma'shar (radiy-Allâhu anh). The hadith of Abu Huraira was also narrated in different ways. Some scholars criticized Abu Ma'şer in terms of his memory. His name is Necih and he is the freed slave of the Hashim sons. Muhammad says: I do not narrate anything from him, but people do. Again, Muhammad says: Abdullah b. Cafer el Mahremi's Osman b. The narration from Muhammad al-Ahnesi, Said al-Makburi and Abu Huraira is stronger and more authentic than the narration of Abu Ma'shar.
345-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The distance between east and west is considered a qibla." (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 56) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. The reason why Cafer was called "Mahremî" was Misver b. It is because he is Mahreme's son. The hadith "between the west and the west is considered the qibla" was narrated by many of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Hattab, Ali b. Abi Talib and Ibn Abbas are among them. Umar used to say: If you take the west to the right and the east to the left, the distance between these two is considered to be the qibla. You can do this when you search for the qibla. Ibn al-Mubarak says: “The distance between east and west is considered qibla.” The hadith is for the easterners, for the people of Merv, it is necessary to turn left, so the direction of the qibla will be different for each region.
346-) Abdullah b. Âmir b. Rabia narrated from her father and said: We were on a journey together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in a dark night. We could not determine which side the qibla was, each of us prayed in different directions. In the morning, we conveyed the situation to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), whereupon the following verse was revealed: “East and west belong to Allah. Wherever you turn, you return to God. There is no doubt that Allah's possibilities and knowledge are limitless.” (2 Baccarat 115) (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 56) This is not the case with this hadith. This hadith was only reported by Eş'as b. We know from Semman's narration. It is said that this person is weak in hadith. However, the majority of scholars act according to this hadith and say: "If one performs a prayer in cloudy weather by facing the qibla, then it is permissible to perform a prayer even if it is clear that it is facing the other way." Sûfyan es Sevrî, İbn'ül Mubarak, Ahmed and İshâk are among them.
347-) It was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade performing prayers in seven places. Garbage dumps, slaughterhouses, cemeteries, in the middle of the road, Turkish baths and baths, camel stables and on the roof of the Kaaba.” (Dârimî, Salat: 111; Nesai, Cenaiz: 106)
348-) A hadith has been narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh) in a similar sense to this hadith. On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Abu Mersed, Jabir and Anas. The name of Abu Mersed was Kennaz b. Husayn. The hadith of Ibn Umar is not so strong in this way. One of the narrators of the hadith, Zayd b. Jabir was criticized for his memory. Zayd b. Jubayr al-Kufi is stronger and older, and he heard hadith from Ibn Umar. b. Sa'd reported this hadith from Abdullah b. He narrated similarly from Umar al-Umeri, from Nafi, through Ibn Umar and Umar. The hadith narrated by David through Nafi' and Ibn Umar is Leys b. It is more authentic and sound than Sa'd's hadith. Abdullah b. Ömer el Umerî was criticized by some hadith scholars in terms of his memory, and Yahya b. Said al Kattan is one of them.
349-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Pray in sheep pens, but not in camel pens.” (Ibn Majah, Masajid: 12; Abu Dawud, Salat: 25)
350-) Another hadith has been narrated from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh) exactly and approximately. In this regard, Jabir b. Semure, Berâ, Sebre b. Mâbet el Cühenî, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Mugaffel, Ibn Omar and Anas. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Hadith scholars do their practice with this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. The hadith narrated by Abu Husayn through Abu Salih and Abu Huraira is strange. Israel narrates this hadith from Abu Husayn, Abu Salih, Abu Huraira and does not convey it to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Abu Husayn's name is Osman b. He is Asim al-Asadî.
351-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray in sheep pens. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 25) This hadith is hasan authentic. Eddubaî's name is Yazîd b. Humayd.
352-) According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent me to a place for a job. When he returned from there, he was praying on his binit, which was going towards the east, and he was making his prostration by bowing more than his bow.” (Nesâî, Mesacid: 46; Dârimî, Salat: 181) On this subject, Enes, İbn Ömer, Ebû Said, Âmir b. Hadith was also narrated from Rabia. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound. The hadith was narrated by Jabir in another way. All scholars have acted upon this hadith, and we do not know whether there is any disagreement. They did not see any harm in performing nafilah prayers on one's bin, no matter which way he turned.
353-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray with his mount and camel suturing. In addition, he used to perform nafilah prayers no matter where he was headed.” (Bukhari, Salat: 121; Abu Dawud, Salat: 93) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars do not see any harm in praying by using a camel as a sutra.
354-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he says: "If the dinner is ready and the time for the night prayer comes, give priority to the meal." (Bukhari, Azan: 42; Dârimî, Salat: 58) Aisha, Ibn Omar, Salama b. A hadith was also narrated from Ekva and Umm Salama. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) were of this opinion, including Abu Bakr, Umar and Ibn Umar. Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion and say, "If the congregational prayer is missed, food is given priority". I heard from Carud He heard from Veki saying: “Eat should be given priority if it is feared that the food will spoil.” It is more appropriate to follow the views of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and those who came after him so that the heart would not be busy with food. It has been narrated from Ibn Abbas: "Do not start the prayer when there is something that is keeping us busy."
355-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When dinner is ready and the time for prayer comes, start with dinner.” (Bukhari, Azan: 42; Dârimî, Salat: 58) Omar, hearing the imam's reading, used to eat dinner. Hadith on this subject was also reported from Abde, Ubeydullah Nafi' and Ibn Omar via Hennad.
356-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) reported that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If a person who is going to pray is sleepy, let him sleep until he gets sleepy because a sleepy person may curse himself while praying." (Dârimî, Salat: 107; Nesai, Tahara: 117) A hadith was also narrated from Anas and Abu Huraira on this subject. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic.
357-) According to the narration from Ibn Atiyya (radiyallahu anh), he said: Malik b. Huveyris would sometimes come to our area and chat. One day, it was time for prayer, and we said, "Get ahead and become imams for us." Let one of you lead the prayer, and as for why I led him: "As I heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), he said: Whoever visits a group, let him not become an imam for them. Let one of them become imams for them.” (Nesai, Imam: 6; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 60) This hadith is hasan authentic. Many scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods act on this hadith and say: Some scholars say, "There is no harm in being an imam if the owner of the house gives permission." Isaac; Malik b. They are very severe about the Huwayris hadith, saying that even if the owner of the house gives permission, there should not be an imam, and they say that it should be the same at home as in the mosque, and one of the people there should lead the prayer.
358-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is not permissible for anyone to look inside another's house without permission. If he looks, it will be as if he has entered the house, so he will have committed a crime. If a person who is an imam does not pray only to himself without including others, if he does so, he will be a traitor, and no one should try to pray while stuck in his ablution." (Nesai, Imam: 6) The hadith of sabbath is hasan. This hadith is Muawiya b. Salih, Sefr b. Nuseyr, Yazid b. It was also narrated through Shurayh and Abu Umama. In addition, Yazid b. It was also narrated through Shurayh and Abu Huraira. Yazid b. The narration that Şüreyh conveyed from Abu Hayy is more robust and famous in terms of saned.
359-) According to the narration from Hasan (radiyallahu anh), he said; Enes b. According to what I heard from Malik, he was saying: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed three people and wanted them to stay away from Allah's mercy. The person who becomes imam for those who do not want him, the woman whose husband spends the night angry with her, the person who hears the adhan but does not perform the prayer.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) Ibn Abbas, Talha, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr and Abu Umare. This hadith of Enes is not authentic. Because it was narrated from Hasan as mursel, that is, by skipping a person from the chain of transmission. Ahmed b. One of the narrators of Hanbal hadith, Muhammad b. He talked back and forth about Qasim, saying that he was not a hafiz and was weak. Some of their men did not tolerate the unwanted imam to be the imam for the congregation, and they said that if they are not ignorant, ignorant and cruel, the sin is on those who do not want him. and Ishaq says about this: If there are few people who do not want, there is no problem, if the majority does not want, then this situation will be valid.
360-) Amr b. Haris b. According to a narration from al-Mustalik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Two people whose torment will be the most severe on the Day of Judgment were mentioned; The woman who rebelled against her husband and the person who became imam for them even though they did not want him.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) And as reported by Jarir, Mansur said: We asked about the imams, and we were told; “The torment here is for the cruel, unjust and ignorant imams. As for the imams who live according to the sunnah, the sin belongs to those who do not want that imam.
361-) According to what was narrated from Abu Ghalib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard Abu Umama say: There are three people who, if they pray, their prayers do not go beyond their ears, the woman whose husband spends the night in anger, until the slave who escaped from his owner returns. and the person who becomes the imam of the congregation without being asked.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith of Abu Ghalib is hasan garib in this respect. Abu Gâlib's name is Hazevver.
362-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) fell from the horse, got a little sick, and led us to pray sitting down. We prayed sitting with him. After the prayer, he turned and said to us: He has become the imam, when he recites takbir, recite takbir on yourselves, when he ruku', bow down when he stands up, when he says "semi-Allahu limen hamideh", you say "Rabbena stained hamd". ” (Bukhari, Adhan: 51; Muwatta, Salat-ül Cemaa: 5) Hadith was also reported from Aisha, Abu Huraira, Jabir Ibn Omar and Muawiya. The hadith of Enes "describing falling from a horse" is hasan authentic. Some of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) acted according to this hadith, and Jabir b. Abdillah, Usayd b. Hudayr, Abu Huraira and others are among them. Ahmad and Ishaq are of the same opinion. Scholars say: "If the imam prays sitting, the congregation should pray standing, it is not permissible for them to pray sitting." Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik b. Enes, Ibn'ul Mubarak and Shafi'i are among them.
363-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) reported that she said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed sitting behind Abu Bakr during his illness that resulted in his death." (Bukhari, Adhan: 51; Muvatta, Salat-ül Cemaa: 5) This hadith of Aisha is hasan sahih. A hadith is also reported from (radiy-Allâhu anha) as “If the Imam prays sitting down, you should pray sitting down too”. There is another narration from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went to the mosque when he was sick, Abu Bakr was leading the prayer, he had prayed next to Abu Bakr. The community followed Abu Bakr in Abu Bakr. He prayed in obedience to the Prophet (pbuh). There is another narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prayed sitting behind Abu Bakr. Likewise, there is a narration from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed while sitting behind Abu Bakr.
364-) According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed while sitting behind Abu Bakr when he was sick, and his clothes were wrapped around his shoulders under his armpits.” (Bukhari, Adhan: 51; Muwatta, Salat-ül Cemaa: 5) This hadith is hasan authentic. Likewise, this hadith was reported by Yahya b. Ayyub also narrated from Humayd, Sabit and Anas. Many people have narrated this hadith, which came through Anas and Humayd, but they did not mention "Sabit". The narration in which Thabit is mentioned is more authentic.
365-) According to what is reported from Sha'bi (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Mughira b. Shu'ba led us in prayer, and when he was supposed to sit in the second rak'ah, the congregation said subhanallah to remind him, and he said subhanallah to the congregation. When he finished the remaining part of the prayer, he made two sahw prostrations while sitting, and informed him that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did the same as himself. (Nesâî, Sehv: 22; Dârimî, Salat: 176) Ukbe b. Amir, Sa'd and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Buhayna. Some hadith scholars criticize Ibn Abi Layla for his memory. says: "The hadith of Ibn Abi Layla cannot be used as evidence." b. Ismail says: "Ibn Abi Layla is a truthful person, but I do not narrate hadiths from him because he cannot distinguish between sound and unsound hadiths, so I do not narrate hadiths from anyone who is like that." hadith Mughir b. It has also been narrated from Shu'ba in different ways. Sufyan; Câbir, Muğîre b. Sübeyl, Kays b. Hazım and Muğîre b. He narrated this hadith from Shu'ba. Some scholars say that Câbir el Cu'fî is weak, Yahya b. Said, Abdurrahman b. Mahdi and others have abandoned his narration. people act according to this hadith and say: If a person stands up in the second rak'ah of the prayer, he continues his prayer, and at the end he makes two sahw prostrations, he can do the prostrations before and after the salutation. The hadith of those who say that prostrations are made before salutation is more authentic. This hadith was reported by Zuhri, Yahya b. Said el Ensari, Abdurrahman al A'rec and Abdullah b. He narrated from Buhayne.
366-) Ziyâd b. According to the narration from İlaka (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Muğîra b. Shu'ba led us in prayer, he stood up without sitting down after performing two rak'ahs. The congregation warned him by saying subhanallah, but he signaled to them to get up and continue praying. That's exactly how he did it," he said. (Nesai, Sahv: 22; Dârimî, Salat: 176) This hadith is hasan authentic. hadith Mughir b. It was also narrated in different ways through Shu'ba.
367-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from the father of Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to hurry in the first sitting as if he was sitting on hot stones." Shu'ba says: Sa'd used to move his lips as if saying something. I say: He meant to say "until the third rak'ah" and he said the same way. (Nesai, Iftitah: 179; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 175) This hadith is hasen, but Abu Ubayde heard it from his father. His men acted on this hadith and preferred that nothing should be added to the tashahhu in the first sitting, and said, "If he adds anything, he must perform the sahw prostration". This is how it was transmitted from Sha'bi and others.
368-) According to the narration from Suheyb (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I stopped by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and he was praying, I saluted, and he received my greeting with a sign. The narrator says: "I know what you said by pointing with his finger." (Nesai, Sahv: 6; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 165) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Bilal, Abu Huraira, Enes and Aisha.
369-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I asked Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) how the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would greet when he was greeted while he was praying. He said: He would take it by pointing with his hand.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 92) This hadith is hasan authentic. The hadith (367) is also hasan and we know it only from the narration of Leys from Bukayr. b. According to the narration of Eslem from Ibn Umar, he said: I asked Bilal: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told Amr b. How would he receive the greeting given to him while leading the prayer in the mosque of the sons of Avf? He said: He would take it by pointing. I think both hadiths are valid. The story of Bilal's hadith and Suheyb's story are different, it is possible that Ibn Umar heard from both narrators.
370-) According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Subhanallah to inform the imam that he was wrong is for men, and clapping is for women.” (Nesai, Sehv: 15; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 168) Ali, Sahl b. Hadith was also narrated from Sa'd, Jabir, Abu Said and Ibn Umar. He says: When I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) for permission to enter, he would say subhanallah during prayer. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Scholars act upon this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
371-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Yawning in prayer is from the devil; when one of you yawns, he should try to avoid it as much as he can.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Edeb: 89; Buhârî, Bed'ül Halk: 11) In this regard, Ebû Said el Hudri and his grandfather Adıy b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. A group of men do not welcome yawning in prayer. says: I try to prevent yawning with a fake cough.
372-) Imran b. According to a narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about the prayer of a person who prayed while sitting, and he said: Standing is more valuable and valuable. Those who pray while sitting receive half as much reward as those who pray standing up, and those who pray while lying down have half as much reward as those who pray sitting." (Nesai, Kıyam-ül leyl: 20; İbn Mâce, İkame: 141) In this regard, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Anas, Saib and Ibn Umar. Imran b. The hadith of Husayn is hasan authentic.
373-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) how the patient would pray, and he said: “If you are unable to stand, pray sitting, and if you cannot, pray lying on your side.” (Nesai, Kıyam-ül leyl: 20; İbn Mâce, İkame: 141) hadith in this way Hennad; Vekî, İbrahim b. Tahman narrated from Husayn al-Muallim. Husayn b. From Muallim, Ibrahim b. We do not know of anyone who narrated a narration similar to Tahman's. Abu Usama and others from Hüseyin el Muallim, Îsa b. They narrated hadith similar to the narration of Yunus. According to some scholars, what should be understood from this hadith is not obligatory prayers, but voluntary prayers. b. Beşşar, İbn ebi Adiyy, Eş'as b. According to the narration from Abdulmalik and Hasan, they said: "A person can perform voluntary prayers standing, sitting and lying on his side." Scholars have put forward different views about the prayer of the patient. Some say they can do it sitting down if they can't afford it, while others say they can do it by lying on their side. Others say that they do it by lying on their back and turning their feet towards the qibla. Sûfyan es-Tevri (about the 371st hadith) This provision is for the voluntary prayer of a person who has no excuse. A person with illness or other handicap performs his prayer sitting down and receives rewards as if he were standing. In some hadiths, there are narrations such as the word of Sufyan as-Tevri.
374-) Hafsa (radiy-Allâhu anha), one of the wives of the Prophet, said: “I did not see the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) performing his nafilah prayers sitting down until a year before his death. However, after this period, he performs his nafilah prayers sitting down and reads the surah he recited in order, so that the surah he recited would be longer than the longer surahs. (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 16; Nesâî, Kıyam-ül leyl: 19) Umm Salama, Enes b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik. Hafsa hadith is hasan authentic. The following is reported from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "He used to pray sitting at night, stand up when there were thirty or forty verses left before he finished his reading, complete the remaining reading standing, then go to ruku'. He would do the same in the second rak'ah." It was narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When he prayed sitting, he would do the recitation, bowing and prostration while sitting, and when he prayed standing, he would do the bowing and prostration while standing." and Ishaq say: Both hadiths have been acted upon.
375-) According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prays sitting and reads while sitting, standing up when there are thirty or forty verses left before he finishes his reading, then completes the remaining reading standing up, then performs ruku' and prostration, and performs the second rak'ah. He would have done the same.” (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 16; Nesai, Kıyam-ül leyl: 19) This hadith is hasan authentic.
376-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Shaqiq (radiyallahu anh), he said: I asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha) about the nafilah prayer of the Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him). He said: "Sometimes on long nights he would stand up and in some long nights he would do it sitting up. (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 16; Nesai, Kıyam-ül leyl: 19) This hadith is hasan authentic.
377-) Enes b. According to what is reported from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "By Allah, I hear a child crying while leading the prayer, so I shorten the reading so that his mother will not be disturbed." (Bukhari, Adhan: 65; Muslim, Salat: 37) A hadith was also reported from Abu Qatada, Abu Said and Abu Hurayra on this subject. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic.
378-) According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: "The prayer of a woman who has reached the age of menstruation can only be accepted while wearing a headscarf." (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 84, İbn Mâce, Tahara: 132) In this regard, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The word "Haiz" in the hadith means that the mind has reached the age of menstruation. The hadith of Aisha is hasan. by acting upon this hadith; They say, "If a woman prays in such a way that a piece of her hair can be seen after she becomes sane, her prayer will not be accepted." He says: If one side of the woman's body is uncovered, the prayer will not be permissible. Shafi'i says again: A woman should pray without leaving any part of her hands uncovered, except for the back of her face and feet.
379-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade leaving the garment in a way that draws attention without tying it, and showing the private parts of the body.” Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 85) A hadith was also reported from Abu Juhayfa on this subject. It is stated that Ata narrated this hadith as merfu from Abu Huraira, but Isl b. We know from the narration of Sufyan. Scholars have put forward different views about hanging in prayer, and some of them did not welcome it by saying that Jews do it. Some of them said that the person with one layer of clothes should not do it. Saying that there is no harm in hanging a second dress on the shirt, Ahmed b. Hanbal expressed his opinion. Ibn al-Mubarak, on the other hand, did not welcome any kind of drooping in prayer.
380-) According to what is narrated from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you begins to pray, Allah's mercy turns to him. Therefore, he should not occupy himself with the pebbles on the prostration." (İbn Mâce, İkame: 62; Nesâî, Sehv: 7) Muaykîb, Ali b. Ebî Tâlib, Huzeyfe and Câbir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah. The hadith of Abu Dharr is hasan. A hadith has been reported from (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) that he does not like to level the pebbles in prayer and that "If you are going to do it, do it once". So it looks like he's allowed to do it once. Scientists also act in this way.
381-) It was narrated from Muaykib that he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about how to fix the pebbles while he was praying, and he said: "If you have to do it, do it once." (Nesai, Sahv: 7) This hadith is hasan authentic.
382-) It was narrated from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a person called Eflah blowing during prostration and said: "O Eflah, you have soiled your face or you have not done a good deed." (Musnad: 25360) b. Menî' says: Abbad b. Avvam does not like blowing in prayer and says: "If he blows in prayer, this does not cancel his prayer, we think like this."
383-) A similar hadith has been narrated from Abu Hamza (radiy-Allâhu anh) approximately with this year, with the following addition: “A person from us called Rebah.” (Musnad: 6878) The isnad of this hadith by Umm Salama is not very solid. Some scholars said that Maymun and Abu Hamza were weak in terms of hadith transmission. Scholars have put forward different views about blowing in prayer. Some of them say that the person who blows during the prayer repeats his prayer; Sufyan es Sevri and the people of Kufe are among them. Some of them do not like blowing in prayer and they are convinced that the prayer is not invalidated. Ahmed and Ishaq are among those who hold this view.
384-) According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade performing prayers by resting his hands on the flank (belly).” (Nesai, İftitah: 12; Dârimî, Salat: 138) A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Omar (radiy-Allâhu anh) on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Scholars have said that it is not pleasant to rest the hands on the waist during prayer. Some scholars, on the other hand, did not tolerate walking by resting their hands on the waist. Ihtisar: to stand in prayer by resting the hand on the waist. It is narrated that the devil walks by resting his hand on his waist while walking.
385-) According to the narration from Abu Rafi' (radiyallahu anh), Abu Rafi' one day Hasan b. Ali had come to him while he was praying, he had gathered his hair in a bun on his neck, and untied them. Hasan got angry at this, Abu Rafi' said: "Do not be angry, continue your prayer; I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say, "that is the place where Satan will sit". (Darimi, Salat: 105) A hadith has also been reported from Umm Salama and Abdullah on this subject. The hadith of Abu Rafi' is hasan. men have said that it is not nice to make a bun in the hair during prayer. Imran b. Musa is from Mecca and Quraysh, and Ayyub b. He is the brother of Moses.
386-) Fadl b. According to the narration from Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Prayer is two rak'ahs in which there is one session in every two rak'ahs. Out of love and respect for Allah, there is peace of mind, humility, begging, and appearing weak and helpless. By turning the inside of your hands towards your face and lifting them, O Lord! My God! Whoever does not do this, his prayer is such and such." (Musnad: 16868) Someone other than Ibn al-Mubarak said at the end of this hadith: "Whoever does not do it this way, that prayer is incomplete." Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail, he said: Shu'ba said this hadith Abdurabbih b. Said, and he made mistakes in some places. For example, Enes b. He says it is from Ebi Enes, whereas he is Imran b. Imran b. Ebi Enes. Abdullah b. He says from al-Harith, whereas he is Abdullah b. Nafi' b. al Amya's Rabia b. It is a narration from Haris. Likewise, Shu'be, Abdullah b. He says from Haris, Muttalib and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), whereas Rabia b. Haris b. Abdulmuttalib, Fadl b. It will be from Abbas and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Muhammad says: Leys b. Sa'd's hadith is more authentic than Shu'ba's hadith.
387-) Ka'b b. According to a narration from Ujra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If one of you goes to the mosque to perform ablution well and pray, let him not interlock his fingers because he is like in prayer.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 50) Ka'b b. Many people from Ibn Aclan related the hadith of Ucre as the hadith of Lays. Sharik, Muhammed b. Aclan narrated a similar hadith from his father, Abu Huraira. The hadith of Shurayk is not very famous.
388-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked which prayer is more valuable and valuable, and he replied, "The one with the longer qunut." (Although Kunut has many meanings, it is used in the sense of standing, that is, standing in this hadith.) (Ibn Mâce, İkame: 200; Nesâî, İftitah: 61) In this regard, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Hubshi and Anas. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound. Again, this hadith was narrated from Jabir in different ways.
389-) Madan b. According to a narration from Talha al Yagmeri (radiy-Allâhu anh), I saw the freedman of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Sawban, and I said to him: “Show me a deed that will put me in Paradise and benefit from it.” He kept quiet and turned to me and said: “Keep increasing your prostrations. I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) that If a servant prostrates to Allah, Allah raises his rank by one degree, and forgives his mistake. (Ibn Majah, Substitution: 201)
390-) from Ma b. It is narrated from Talha (radiyallahu anh): I saw Abu'd Darda, I asked him what I asked Sevban, and he said: "Continue to prostrate." If he makes a prostration, Allah raises his rank by one degree, and forgives his mistakes and sins.” (Ibn Mâce, Substitution: 201) b. Talha al Yagmeri is also called Ibn ebi Talha. On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Abu Huraira, Abu Umama and Fatima. The hadiths of Sevban and Abu'd Darda about increasing ruku' and prostration are hasan authentic. Scholars have expressed different views on this issue. Some of them say: Prolonging standing in prayer is better than prolonging ruku' and prostration, while others say: The multiplicity of ruku' and prostration is better than the length of standing. b. Hanbal says: Two hadiths have been reported on this subject and they do not contain any provisions. Ishaq says: The length of ruku' and prostration in day prayers and the length of standing in night prayers are valuable and valuable. However, if someone has made it a habit to recite a little bit of the Qur'an at night, then it is more pleasing to me to increase ruku' and prostration, because he will have finished reading the Qur'an and he will have increased his prostration and ruku'. The reason why Ishaq said this is because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted to explain the length of the night prayer. As for the daytime prayers of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him); Like the night prayers, his standing in the daytime prayers was as long as the night prayers.
391-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered two black things (snake and scorpion) to be killed during prayer." (Nesâî, Sahv: 12; Dârimî, Salat: 178) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas and Abu Rafi on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Some of the scholars of the Companions and Tabiun period act on this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars do not welcome killing snakes and scorpions in prayer. He says: "Prayer is an occupation in itself." Therefore, such things are not done in prayer, but the first view is more correct.
392-) According to what is reported from Abdullah ibn Buhayne (radiy-Allâhu anh): “One day, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up where he was sitting in the second rak'ah of the noon prayer, and when he finished the prayer, he made two prostrations before saluting by saying takbir for each prostration. He made two prostrations because of forgetting to sit in the same way.” (Nesâî, Sahv: 76; İbn Mâce, İkame: 135) Abdurrahman b. A hadith was also narrated from Awf.
393-) Muhammed b. According to Bashar, Abdu'l A'la and Abu Dawud said: Hisham, Yahya b. Ebi Kathir and Muhammed b. According to what we have been told from Ibrahim, Abu Huraira and Abdullah ibn Saib "Remember they used to do their prostration before saluting." The hadith of Buhayna is hasan authentic. Some scholars have applied according to this hadith. All forgetting prostrations are performed before the salutation. This hadith abolished the provisions of hadiths other than this practice. Because the last practice of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) is about this hadith. and in Ishaq they say: If a person gets up without sitting in the second rak'ah, it is sufficient to make two prostrations before saluting, according to the hadith of Buhayna. b. Buhayne, Abdullah b. He is Malik and the son of Buhayne, his father's name is Malik and his mother's name is Buhayne. b. Mansur, Ali b. This is how Abdullah al-Madeni informed us. Scholars do not forget the prostration before the salutation? after? They have put forward different opinions about it, some of them say that it will be done after the greeting. Sûfyan es Sevrî and the people of Küfe are among them. Some of them are of the opinion that it should be done before the salutation, and many fiqh scholars and people of Madinah are of this opinion, and Yahya b. Said, Rabia, Shafii and others are among them. Some of them say that don't forget the prostrations should be done after the salutation if there is excess in the prayer, and if there is a deficiency, it should be done with the salam. Malik b. Like Enes. He says: Every hadith that comes to us about the prostrations of forgetting finds value in its own way. In the hadith of Buhayna, sajdas are made before the salutation because one stands up where one should sit. In the other narration: He performed the noon prayer five rak'ahs and made the prostrations after the salutation. In the narration: If he saluted in two rak'ahs in the noon and afternoon prayers, he also did the prostrations after the salutation. Therefore, all of them are evaluated and applied as they were done in their own subject, according to the error and exaggeration situation. The prostration must be done before the salutation in every event that has not been shown by the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). In Ishaq he says exactly as Ahmed said and makes the following addition. “In every mistake that has not been shown by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), if the reason for the mistake is excess in the prayer, two prostrations should be performed after the salutation, and if there is a deficiency, before the salutation.”
394-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) once forgot the noon prayer and prayed it as five rak'ahs, so the prayer was increased for him? It was said that he also made two prostrations after the salutation, since he was in the state of salutation.” (Nesâî, Sahv: 75; İbn Mâce, İkame: 135) hadith hasan is authentic.
395-) Again, according to what is reported from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made two prostrations after speaking and saluting.” (Nesâî, Sahv: 76; İbn Mâce, İkame: 135) Muaviye b. Ebi Sufyan, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Jafar and Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan authentic.
396-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made two prostrations after the salutation." (Nesai, Sahv: 76; İbn Mâce, İkame: 135) This hadith is hasan authentic. and others have also narrated this hadith from Ibn Sirin. Some scholars, acting on this hadith, say: If a person performs the noon prayer as five rak'ahs without sitting in the fourth rak'ah, his prayer is permissible, if he performs two prostrations, his prayer will be complete. This is the view of Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq. On the other hand, if he performs the noon prayer as five rak'ahs without sitting long enough to recite tahiyyat in the fourth rak'ah, his prayer will be deemed invalid. Sûfyan as-Tevri and some people of Kufe hold this view.
397-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led the congregation in prayer and made a mistake, then sat down making two prostrations and saluted again.” (Nesâî, Sahv: 76; İbn Mâce, İkame: 136) This hadith is hasan sahih and strange. on the subject of Muhammad b. Sirin narrated a hadith other than this one from Abu Mühelleb, who was the uncle of Abu Qalabe. He narrated this hadith from Khalid al-Hazza, from Abu Qalaba and Abu Mühelleb. The name of Abu Mühelleb was Abdurrahman b. It is Amr. Muawiya b. Also called Amr. As-Sakafi, Hushaym and others have long narrated this hadith from Khalid al-Hazza and Abu Qalabe, who said that Imran b. Husayn's hadith. “The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) once saluted in the third rak'ah of the afternoon prayer. Someone named Hırbak stood up for the fourth rak'ah.” Scholars have put forward different opinions on whether there is sitting in the prostration of forgetting or not. Some of them said that after two prostrations, they sit down and greet. Some of them say that there is no sitting and salutation because they make prostrations before saluting. Ahmad and Ishaq are among them and they say: "If he makes two prostrations before the salutation, it is not necessary to sit."
398-) Iyad b. According to the narration from Hilal (radiyallahu anh), he said: I asked Abu Said: "Some of you pray and do not know how." Thereupon, he informed us that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If one of you prays and does not know how to pray, let him make two prostrations while sitting." (Nesai, Sahv: 27) Hadiths were also narrated from Osman, Ibn Mas'ud, Aisha and Abu Huraira on this subject. The hadith of Abu Said is hasan. This hadith was also narrated in different ways by Abu Said. It has also been narrated from the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) as follows: “One? two? If you are in doubt, accept one or two? three? If you are in doubt, accept two and make two prostrations before saluting.” Hadith scholars act according to this hadith. Some scholars also say, "Whoever has doubts about the prayer, who does not know how many rak'ahs he has prayed, should repeat his prayer." They say.
399-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The devil comes to you while you are praying and confuses you so that you do not know how much he has prayed, and you do not know how much you have prayed. Whoever feels such a thing should make two prostrations while sitting." (Nesai, Sahv: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
400-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Awf (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) saying; “Is it two rak'ahs if one of you makes a mistake or forgets in prayer? One rak'ah? If he does not know what he is doing, he should accept one rak'ah and continue his prayer. two? three? If he does not know what he is doing, he should accept two and continue his prayer. three? four? If he does not know what he is doing, let him continue his prayer by accepting three and make two prostrations before saluting.” (Nesai, Sahv: 25) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. This hadith is Abdurrahman b. It has also been narrated in a different way through awf. Zuhri reported this hadith from Ubeydullah b. Abdullah b. From Utba, Ibn Abbas, Abdurrahman b. He also narrated from Awf.
401-) It was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) once prayed two rak'ahs of the four-rak'ah prayer and left the prayer. A person named Zülyedeyn: “Did the prayer get shorter or did you forget it? O Messenger of Allah!” said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Is Zulyadeyn telling the truth?" In the congregation they said: “Yes”. “The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) stood up and led the last two rak'ahs and saluted, then uttered takbir and performed another prostration like his normal prostrations or longer. Then he stood up by saying takbir and made another long prostration like his normal prostration.” (Nesâî, Sahv: 22; İbn Mâce, İkame: 134) In this regard, Imran b. The hadiths were also narrated from Husayn, Ibn Omar, and Zulyedeyn. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Scholars have expressed different opinions about this hadith. Some of the people of Kufa: "A person who speaks forgetfully, unknowingly or in any way repeats his prayer." They claim that this hadith predates the prohibition of speaking in prayer. Shafi'i accepts this hadith as authentic and says: This hadith is from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam); "It is more authentic than the hadith that states that the fasting person who eats and drinks forgetfully will not break his fast, but that the things he eats and drinks are the sustenance of Allah." Shafi'i says: With the hadith of Abu Hurayra, they made a distinction between eating and drinking intentionally or forgetfully. Ahmad: About this hadith of Abu Hurayra: If the imam thinks that his prayer is complete, talks about something about his prayer, and finds out that his prayer is missing, he completes it. He says that whoever talks behind the imam's back even though he knows that his prayer is incomplete, he has to perform his prayer again, and he brings the following evidence. In the time of the Messenger of Allah, fards could be increased or decreased. This is why Zülyedeyn spoke. Today, however, it is not like this, nobody speaks in that sense as Zülyedeyn does because fards are neither increased nor decreased. This is exactly what Ahmed said. Ishaq also says about this as Ahmed said.
402-) According to the narration from Abu Maslama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Enes b. I asked Malik; “Did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) pray with his shoes on?” They answered “yes”. (Nesai, Qibla: 24; Dârimî, Salat: 103) In this regard, Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Abdullah b. Ebi Habibe, Abdullah b. Amr, Amr b. Hureys, Şeddâd b. A hadith was also narrated from A'ta, sons of Evs, Evs es Sekafi, Abu Huraira and Shayba. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic. Scholars act upon this hadith.
403-) Berâ b. It was narrated from Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform kunut in the morning prayers.” (Muslim, Mesajid: 54; Dârimî, Salat: 216) Ali, Enes, Abu Huraira, Ibn Abbas, Hufaf b. İyma b. A hadith was also narrated from Rahdete al-Gifari. The hadith of barâ is hasan authentic. Scholars have put forward different opinions about kunut in the prayer. Some of them accepted the necessity of performing kunut in the morning prayer. Malik and Shafi'i are among them. Ahmed and Ishaq say: A qunut can be performed in the morning prayer only in the event of a disaster that befell Muslims. In times of distress and disaster, the imam can pray to the armies of Islam.
404-) According to what is reported from Abu Malik al-Ashcai (radiyallahu anh), he said: I said to my father, "O my father." “You prayed behind the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), Abu Bakr, Omar, Osman and Ali for five years in Kufa, would they do qunuts in their prayers? He said: "O my son, this is a matter of late." (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 145: Nesai, İftitah 120) This hadith is hasan authentic. Many scholars act upon this hadith. Es Sevrî says: It is pleasant whether kunut is performed in the morning prayer or not. I prefer not to do it. Mubarak: It is in favor of not performing kunut in the morning prayer. The name of Ebû Malik el Eşcaî is Sa'd b. Tariq b. It is my item.
405-) Abu Malik al-Ashcai narrated this hadith to us in this sense, through Abu Avane (radiy-Allâhu anh).
406-) Muâz b. According to the narration from Rifaa's father, he said: I prayed behind the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and sneezed after that: "Alhamdu lillahi hamden kathiran tayyiben mubareken fihi mubareken aleyhi kema yuhibbû, our Lord is pleased with. and the way he loves, all praise is to Allah with all his blessings)”. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) prayed and finished, he asked: "Who was the speaker in the prayer?" He said, no one made a sound, the second time he asked in the same way, again no one made a sound, when he asked the third time; Rifaa b. Rafi b. Afra: "It's me, O Messenger of Allah!" said. "How did you say?" He said, and I repeated exactly what I said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my soul, that more than thirty angels took action to bring that word you said before Allah." (Nesai, İftitah: 36; Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 166) Enes, Vâil b. Hucr, Âmir b. Hadith was also narrated from Rabia. The hadith of Rifaa is hasan sound. According to some scholars, the ruling in this hadith is about voluntary prayers. Many of the Tabi'un say: "If a person sneezes during the obligatory prayer, he only praises himself, they did not allow anything more than that."
407-) Zayd b. According to what is reported from Erkam (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We used to talk behind the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in prayer. Someone was talking to someone next to them. “Stand in the presence of Allah with sincere devotion.” When the 238th verse of Bakara was revealed, speaking was forbidden and we were commanded to remain silent. (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 123; Nesâî, Sahv: 20) Ibn Mas'ud and Muawiya b. The hadith was also narrated from the referee. Zayd b. The hadith of Arkam is hasan authentic. Most of his men act upon this hadith and say: "If a person speaks in prayer deliberately or forgetfully, he repeats his prayer." Sûfyan es Sevrî, İbn'ül Mubarak and the people of Küfe are among them. Some scholars say: “If he speaks intentionally during the prayer, he repeats the prayer, and if he forgets, his prayer is permissible.” Shafi'i is one of them.
408-) Esma b. According to what is reported from Hakim al-Fezari (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard Ali (radiyallahu anh) say: "When I heard a hadith from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), Allah used to make me benefit from that hadith as He wished. When a person from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) narrated hadiths to me, I would make him swear. If he took an oath, I would accept that hadith. Abu Bakr once told me a hadith: Abu Bakr was the right person, he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: After a person commits a sin, he gets up, performs ablution, prays, then asks for forgiveness from Allah, Allah will definitely forgive him. When they do something or act contrary to their reason for being, they remember Allah and beg for the forgiveness of their sins. After all, who can forgive sins but Allah? They do not deliberately persist in their sins and wrongdoings.” (Ibn Mace, Ikame: 138) In this regard, Ibn Mas'ud, Abu'd Derda, Enes, Abu Umama, Muâz, Vasile, Ka'b b. A hadith was also narrated from Ebul Yeser, who was given the name Amr. The hadith of Ali is hasan authentic. This hadith, in this form, was only reported by Uthman b. We know it through the narration of Mughira. and others similarly reported this hadith through Abu Avana. Sufyan as-Sevri and Mis'ar also narrated this hadith as mawkuf. There is also a form of narration from Mis'ar as merfu. Esma b. We do not know of any other hadith that al-Hakim narrated as merfu other than this hadith.
409-) Rabi' b. According to the narration from Sabra (radiy-Allâhu anh), from her father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Teach your children to pray when they reach the age of seven, and if they do not perform it when they are ten, make them pray by beating.” (Dârimî, Salat: 141) In this regard, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of sabr is hasan authentic. Scholars act upon this hadith like Ahmed and Ishaq; and they say: “He has to repeat the prayers he had passed after he was ten years old.” seber; He is the son of Ma'bed el Cühenî. He is also called Avsece's son.
410-) Abdullah b. According to what was narrated from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If a person's wudu is broken before saluting in the last sitting of the prayer, his prayer is valid." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 187) The isnad of this hadith is not very solid. Hadith scholars are confused. Some scholars say: "If the ablution of a person who sits long enough to recite the Tahiyyat is broken, his prayer will be complete." Others say: "If his ablution is broken without reciting tahiyyat and saluting, he has to perform his prayer again." They say that Shafi'i is one of them. He says: If he greets without reciting Tahiyyat, his prayer is permissible. Because the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “The end of the prayer is salam”. Reading tahiyyat is lighter than saluting because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up in two rak'ahs and continued his prayer without reciting tahiyyat. b. Ibrahim says: "If he recites tahiyyat, his prayer is permissible even if he does not greet," and he cites the following hadith that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) taught Ibn Mas'ud about tashahhud; “When you read Tahiyyat, you will have done what is necessary” Abdurrahman b. Ziyd b. En'um is Ifrikî. Some hadith scholars consider this person weak. Yahya b. Said el Kattan and Ahmed b. Hanbal is one of them.
411-) According to what was narrated from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We were together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey, and we were caught in the rain. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, “Whoever wishes, let him perform his prayer in his own house.” (Do not get wet because I will come to the congregation)” (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 206; Dârimî, Salat: 55) In this regard, Ibn Omar, Samura, Ebul Melih's father and Abdurrahman b. A hadith was also narrated from Samura. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound. their men have given permission not to go to the congregation on Friday and during difficult times such as rain and mud; Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. I heard Abu Zura say: Affan b. Muslim, Amr b. He narrated only one hadith from Ali. Zura' says: We did not see anyone with a stronger memory than these three people in Basra: Ali al-Madinî, Ibn Shazekûnî and Amr b. Ali. Melih's name is Amir. Zayd b. Usama b. It is also called Umair al-Huzeli.
412-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Poor people came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said; O Messenger of Allah! they said. “The rich also pray like us, fast like us, liberate the slaves because they have the means, and give a lot of alms.” Thereupon, our Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If you say subhanallah thirty-three times, alhamdulillah thirty-three times, Allahu akbar thirty-four times, and la ilaha illallah ten times every time you perform the prayer, you will catch up with the rich people who pass you by, and as long as those after you do not do these things. They can't get past you." (Nesai, Sehv: 91) In this regard, Ka'b b. Ucre, Enes, Abdullah b. Amr, Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Sabit, Abu'd Darda, Ibn Omar and Abu Dharr. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan garib. Also, hadiths were narrated from Abu Huraira and Mughira on this subject. It is also narrated that (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There are two features that those who make them will definitely enter Paradise. “A person who says Subhanallah ten times, Alhamdulillah ten times, Allahu Akbar ten times after every prayer, and a person who says Subhanallah thirty-three times, Alhamdulillah thirty-three times, and Allahu Akbar thirty-four times when he goes to sleep.”
413-) Ya'la b. According to what Murra (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated from his father and grandfather: “They were with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) on a journey. When they came to a narrow passage, it was time for prayer, the rain was pouring non-stop above them and the water was rising under them. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the call to prayer on his camel, brought the iqama, and led them in prayer with his camel. He was leading the prayer with an imâ (moving) gesture, making the prostrations slightly lower than bowing.” (Ibn Majah, Iqame: 35) This hadith is strange. Umar b. Rimah al-Balkhi narrated it alone. He is not known because he has no narration other than this hadith, and many scholars have quoted this hadith from him. Likewise, Enes b. It is also narrated from Malik that he prayed over a thousand in rainy and muddy times. Scholars have acted upon this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
414-) According to a narration from Mughira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray until his feet swelled. It was said to him: “Why do you force yourself to pray like this when your past and future sins are forgiven?” They said: "Should I not be a servant who is very grateful to Allah?" (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 184) hadiths were also narrated from Abu Huraira and Aisha. Muğîre b. The hadith of Shu'ba is hasan sound.
415-) Hureys b. According to the narration from Kabisa (radiyallahu anh), he said: When I came to Medina, I prayed as follows: "O Allah, grant me a friend with whom I can sit and chat." I wanted to get close to Abu Huraira and ask Allah to grant me a better person with whom I could chat. Now, I said, "Tell me a hadith that you heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) so that Allah will benefit me with it." Thereupon, Abu Huraira said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and he said: "The first thing that a servant will account for for his deeds on the Day of Judgment is prayer. If a person who is accounted for has a deficiency in his obligatory prayers, Allah will say: "Look at my servant's nafilah prayers and make up for what he lacks in obligatory prayers. Thus, the account of other deeds is also seen in this way.” (Nesai, Salat: 9; İbn Mâce, İkame: 202), a hadith was also reported from Tamim ed Dârî. Again, this hadith was narrated in a different way from Abu Huraira. Some of Hasan's friends were Hasan from Kabîsa b. Another hadith has been reported from Hurays that the famous narration was written by Kabisa b. Hureys b. Not Kabîsa b. Hurays" is the narration. b. A similar hadith was narrated from Hakim through Abu Huraira.
416-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “Whoever continues to pray twelve rak'ahs of sunnah prayer in one day, Allah will build him a mansion in Paradise. Four rak'ahs in the morning, two rak'ahs after the evening prayer, two rak'ahs after the evening prayer, two rak'ahs after the night prayer, and two rak'ahs before the morning prayer.” (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 100; Dârimî, Salat: 144) A hadith was also reported from Umm Habibe, Abu Huraira, Abu Musa and Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith of Aisha is strange in this form. Muğre b. Some hadith scholars have mentioned about Ziyâd's memory.
417-) According to the narration from Umm Habiba (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever performs twelve rak'ahs of sunnah in a day or night that must be performed outside of the fards, Allah will reward him in Paradise. builds a mansion. Four rak'ahs before noon, two rak'ahs in the afternoon, two rak'ahs before the evening, two rak'ahs after Isha, two rak'ahs before the morning prayer." (Ibn Majah, Iqama: 100) The hadith narrated by Anbese from Umm Habiba on this subject is hasan sound. This hadith has also been narrated from Anbesa in different ways.
418-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The reward of two rak'ahs of the morning prayer is better than the world and everything in it.” (Darimi, Salat: 136) hadiths were also narrated from Ali, Ibn Omar and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. Ahmed b. Hanbal, Salih b. He narrated this hadith of Aisha from Abdullah et Tirmidhi.
419-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I watched the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) for a month while he was reciting the chapters of Kafirun and Ikhlas in the sunnah of the morning prayer.” (Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 14; Abu Dâvûd, Salat-i Tatavvu: 2) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ibn Mas'ud, Anas, Abu Huraira, Ibn Abbas, Hafsa and Aisha. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan. From Abu Ishaq, we know the hadith narrated by Thawri only through the narration of Abu Ahmad, popularly known as the hadith of Israel. Abu Ahmad also narrated this hadith from Israel. Abu Ahmad al-Zubayrî is a reliable person and a hafiz. I heard Bundar say: "I have never seen anyone with a better memory than Abu Ahmad al-Zubayr." Abu Ahmad's name: Muhammad b. Abdullah b. Zubayr al-Kufī al-Asadī.
420-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "After performing the two-rak'ah sunnah of the morning prayer, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would talk to me if he needed anything, and if he did not need it, he would go out to the mosque to perform the obligatory prayer." (Darimi, Salat: 147) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and some of the scholars of the following periods did not approve of unnecessary conversations other than the obligatory speech and dhikr of Allah, from the beginning of the morning prayer until it became fard. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
421-) According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Only two rak'ahs of sunnah are performed after the time for the morning prayer has entered." (Darimi, Salat: 146; Ibn Mâce, Iqame: 101) What should be understood from the hadith is as follows: After the time of the morning prayer has entered, only two rak'ahs of the morning prayer can be performed. In this regard, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr and Hafsa. This hadith of Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh) is strange. This hadith is only related to Kudame b. We know from the narration of Moses. Some people narrated hadiths from him. The men unanimously agreed on this issue and said: "It is not pleasant to pray other than the first sunnah of the morning after the time for the morning prayer has come."
422-) According to what is reported from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you performs the sunnah of the morning prayer, let him rest on his right side.” (Abu Dâvûd, Salat-i Tatavvu: 3; Dârimî, Salat: 148) A hadith was also narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan sahih in this form. It is also narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha) that: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to lie on his right side after performing the sunnah of the morning prayer.” Some scholars consider it mustahab to do so.
423-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When the iqama is performed for a prayer at any time, no prayer other than the fard prayer is performed.” (Dârimî, Salat: 149; İbn Mâce, İkame: 103) In this regard, Ebû Buhayne, Abdullah b. Amr, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Sarjis, Ibn Abbas, and Anas. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan. Likewise, Eyyub, Verka b. Ömer, Ziyâd b. Sa'd, İsmail b. Muslim, Muhammed b. Cuhade, Amr b. Dinar, Ata b. Hadith was also narrated by Yasar and Abu Huraira. b. Zeyd, Sûfyan b. Uyeyne, Amr b. A hadith was also reported from Dinar and it did not reach the level of merfu. The narration that is merfu is more authentic in our opinion. Some of the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and other scholars act on this hadith and say, "When the iqamat is brought, no prayer other than the obligatory prayer is performed at that time." Sufyan as-Sevri, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are also of this opinion. The hadith was also narrated in a different way from Abu Huraira. Ayyas b. A similar hadith was reported from Abu Salama and Abu Huraira in Abbas al-Kıtbani al-Misri.
424-) Muhammed b. According to the narration from Ibrahim's grandfather, Qays (radiyallahu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went to the mosque for prayer, the iqama was brought immediately, and I performed the morning prayer with him in congregation. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) finished his prayer and came out of the mosque, he saw me praying and said, "O Qays wait, is it two prayers in one prayer? They said, "You're doing it." I said, O Messenger of Allah, I had not been able to perform the two-rak'ah sunnah of the morning prayer. “Then there is nothing wrong with it,” they said. (Ibn Mace, Ikame: 104; Bukhari, Mevakît: 27) Muhammed b. Only Sa'd b. We know from the narration of Said. Sûfyan b. Uyeyne says: Atâ b. Abi Rebah narrated this hadith from Sa'd b. Narrated by Abu Said. This hadith is only narrated as mursal. Some Meccan people act according to this hadith: "They do not see any harm in performing the obligatory prayer before the sun rises." Sa'd b. Said, Yahya b. He is the brother of Said al-Ansari. Kays is Yahya b. Said's grandfather. Kays b. Amr and Kays b. It is also said to be a clown. The proof of this hadith is broken. Because Muhammad b. İbrahim et Taymi did not hear from Kays. Sa'd b. Said and Muhammed b. They narrate from Ibrahim saying, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came out and saw Qays...". This hadith is attributed to Abdulaziz, Sa'd b. It is more authentic than the narration from Said.
425-) According to what was narrated from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever cannot perform two rak'ahs of the morning prayer, he should do it even after the sun has risen." (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 104; Abu Dâvûd, Tatavvu: 6) We know this hadith only in this way. Some scholars acted on this hadith. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Amr b. We do not know of anyone other than Asim al-Kilabi who narrated this hadith from Hemmâm in this way. Qatade's Nadr b. Enes, Beşîr b. The well-known narration from Nehik and Abu Huraira is as follows. “Whoever catches up with one rak'ah of the morning prayer before the sun rises is considered to have caught up with the morning prayer.”
426-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform four rak'ahs of sunnah before the noon fard and two rak'ahs after it.” (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 105; Abu Dâvûd, Tatawwu: 7) A hadith was also reported from Aisha and Umm Habibe on this subject. The hadith of Ali is hasan. Bekir al Attar says: Ali b. Abdullah from Yahya b. We have been told from Said and Sufyan that he said: “Against the narration of Haris, Asim b. We know the superiority and value of Damre's narration.” This is the opinion of many scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and from other periods, and they preferred "to perform four rak'ahs of sunnah before the fard of the noon prayer". This is what Sufyan es-Sevri, Ibn al-Mubarak, Ishaq and the people of Kufe do. Some scholars have also said that "Night and day prayers are in twos", dividing the four rak'ahs that are performed and saying that it is appropriate to perform two or two prayers. Ahmed and Shafii are among them. A hadith has also been narrated from Ali and Aisha on this subject.
427-) According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I prayed two rak'ats of sunnah prayer in the morning and two in the afternoon with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)." (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 425; Nesai, Imame: 64) A hadith was also narrated from Ali and Aisha on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Umar is authentic.
428-) According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “If the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) could not perform the sunnah that was supposed to be performed before the fard of the noon prayer, he would perform it after the fard.” (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 105; Abu Dâvûd, Tatavvu: 7) This hadith is hasan garib and we know it only from this narration of Ibn'ul Mubarak. Kays b. Private Rabi' narrated from Shu'ba and Khalid al-Hazza in a similar way. Kays b. We do not know of anyone from Shu'ba who narrated this hadith other than private Rabi. Again, Abdurrahman b. Abi Layla narrated a similar hadith from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam).
429-) According to the narration from Umm Habibe (radiyallahu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever prays four rak'ahs before the noon prayer and four rak'ahs after the noon prayer, he will make Hell unlawful for him.” (Abu Dâvûd, Tatawwu: 7; İbn Mâce, İkame: 108) This hadith is hasan garib. It has been narrated in another way besides this one.
430-) Anbese b. According to the narration from Abi Sufyan (radiy-Allâhu anh), I heard from Umm Habiba, the wife of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and my sister: “I heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: If he continues to pray four rak'ahs first and then four rak'ahs, Allah forbids him from Hellfire." (Abu Dâvûd, Tatawwu: 7; İbn Mâce, İkame: 108) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. He is the son of Kasim Abdurrahman, one of the narrators. His patronymic is Abu Abdurrahman. He was Abdurrahman b. Khalid b. Yazid b. He is the freed slave of Muawiya, a reliable person from Damascus, and a friend of Abu Umama.
431-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would perform four rak'ahs of sunnah before the fard of the afternoon prayer, and he used to separate these four rak'ahs with a salutation; He said, "Peace be upon the angels and prophets who are close to Allah and the believers and Muslims who follow them." (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 109; Nesai, Imame: 65) Ibn Omar and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Ali is hasan. b. Based on this hadith, Ibrahim preferred to perform the four rak'ahs performed before the afternoon with a greeting. it says: "He would separate himself with a greeting" means that he would sit down and recite tashahhud. And Ahmed's view is that according to the hadith: Night and day prayers are two rak'ahs each, the four rak'ahs before the afternoon should be separated with two greetings.
432-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "May Allah have mercy on a person who performs four rak'ahs before the fard of the afternoon prayer." (Abu Dawud, Tatawwu: 8) The hadith is hasan garib.
433-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: "How many times did the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) recite the suras "Kafirun" and "Ihlas" recited in the two rak'ats after the fard of the evening prayer and in the two rak'ahs before the morning prayer? I can't count what I heard." (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 111) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Mas'ud is garib. Only Abdulmalik b. We know from Ma'dan's narration from Asım.
434-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I prayed two rak'ats after the fard of the evening prayer with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) in his house." (Ibn Mâce, Ikame: 110; Abu Dâvûd, Tatavvu: 15) Rafî' b. Hadîç and Ka'b b. A hadith was also reported from Ucre. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic.
435-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I learned very well the ten rak'ah prayers that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed day and night, as follows: Two rak'ahs in the morning and two in the afternoon. horse, two rak'ahs before Asr, two rak'ahs after Isha and as Hafsa informed me; two rak'ahs before morning." (Ibn Majah, Iqama: 100) the hadith is hasan authentic.
436-) Another similar hadith was narrated from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) through Zuhri, Salim, and Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anhuma). This hadith is hasan authentic.
437-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever performs six rak'ahs of supererogatory prayers after the evening prayer and does not say anything bad in between, has a reward equal to the reward of twelve years of worship. It is possible." (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 113; Abu Dawud, Tatawwu: 15) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) is also reported to have said: “Whoever prays twenty rak'ahs after the evening prayer, Allah will build him a house in Paradise.” The hadith of Abu Huraira is garib. Only Umar b. Abdullah b. Ebî Has'am, Zayd b. We know from the narration of Hubab. Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail that he was saying: Umar b. Abi Has'am is an unknown and unwelcome person. Indeed he is considered weak.
438-) Abdullah b. It is narrated from Shakik (radiyallahu anh). I asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha) about the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). He said: "He used to perform two rak'ahs in the morning, two in the afternoon, two in the evening, two in the evening, and two in the morning." (Abu Dawud, Tatavvu: 16) Abdullah b. The hadith of Shaqiq and Aisha is hasan authentic.
439-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Night prayers are two rak'ahs in pairs. If you are worried that the time of the morning prayer has come, perform the witr prayer as one rak'ah, and the last prayer you perform at night will be the witr prayer." (Abu Dâvûd, Tatavvu: 24; Dârimî, Salat: 165) Amr b. Hadith was also narrated from Abese. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. people act according to this hadith and say that night prayers are two rak'ahs. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
440-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The most valuable fast after the Ramadan fast is the fasting in the month of Allah, Muharram. The most valuable prayer after the obligatory prayers is the night prayer.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Jabir, Bilal and Abu Umama. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Abu Bishr's name is Cafer b. He is Abu Wildyya. Abu Wildyye's name is Iyas.
441-) It was narrated from Abu Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh). Abu Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha) asked Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) about the night prayer that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed in Ramadan; Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said: “The prayers that the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) prayed at night, neither in Ramadan nor outside the month of Ramadan, did not exceed eleven rak'ahs. He used to pray four rak'ahs, don't ask about its beauty and length! Then he would perform four more rak'ahs, so don't ask about its beauty and length! Then he would pray three rak'ahs. Aisha says: “O Messenger of Allah, do you sleep without performing the witr prayer? They said: "My eyes sleep, but my heart does not sleep." (Abu Dâvûd, Tatawwu: 26; Dârimî, Salat: 165) This hadith is hasan authentic.
442-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) reported: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed eleven rak'ats at night, one of which would have been used as a vitr. When he finished his prayer, he would lie on his right side.” (Abu Dawud, Tatawwu: 26)
443-) Another similar hadith was reported from Qutayba, Malik and Ibn Shihab. This hadith is hasan authentic.
444-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray thirteen rak'ats as supererogatory prayers at night.” (Abu Dâvûd, Tatawwu: 26; Dârimî, Salat: 165) This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Cemre ed Dubaî was Nasr b. He is Imran ed Dubai.
445-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray nine rak'ats of voluntary prayers at night." (Ebû Dâvûd, Tatawwu: 26; İbn Mâce, İkame: 123) In this regard, Ebû Hüreyre, Zayd b. Khalid and Fadl b. A hadith was also narrated from Abbas. Tirmidhi: The hadith of Aisha is hasan sahih in this form.
446-) Sufyan as-Swri (radiyallahu anh) narrated a similar hadith from A'mesh. Hadith of Mahmud b. Gaylân, Yahya b. He transmitted it to us from Adam, Sufyan and Amesh. The majority of the narrations from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about the night prayer are thirteen rak'ats together with the witr, and the minimum is nine rak'ahs.
447-) It was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “If the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) could not perform the night prayer because of sleep, he would perform it as twelve rak'ahs during the daytime.” (Abu Dâvûd, Tatawwu: 20; Dârimî, Salat: 162) This hadith is hasan authentic. Sa'd b. Hisham is the son of Amir al-Ansari. Hisham b. Amir is one of the companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Abbas al Anberi, Attab b. Müsenna, Behz b. According to the narration from Hakim, he said: Zurare b. Evfâ was working as a judge in Basra. He was the imam for the sons of Kuseyr. One day, in the morning prayer, when the 8th and 9th verses of the chapter of Müddessir are blown into the Sur for the resurrection, that day is a very difficult and troublesome day. He recited the verse and fell to the ground dead. I was among those who carried him home.
448-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When the first third of the night passes, Allah descends to the world sky and says: The owner of the property, the authority is mine, whoever prays to me, I will answer, whoever asks me, I will give it to him. Whoever asks for forgiveness from me, I will forgive him and this situation will continue until the morning.” (Dârimî, Salat: 168; Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirîn: 24) Ali b. Ebî Tâlib ve Ebû Said el Hudri, Rifaa el Cühenî, Cübeyr b. Mut'im, Ibn Mas'ud, Abu'd Derda, Osman b. A hadith was also narrated from Abibi As. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. This hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways. There is also a narration from Abu Huraira, "When one-third of the night stays...", which is the most authentic of the narrations.
449-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) stopped by Abu Bakr one night and you recite it in a low voice during the night prayer.” Abu Bakr said, "I am making an announcement to the person I beg for. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, raise your voice a little.” He said, "He stopped by Omar, you read with your voice very loud in the night prayer." Omar said: "I wake up those who sleep, I chase the devil". “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to lower his voice a little.” (Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 27) Hadiths were also narrated from Aisha, Umm Hani, Anas, Umm Salama and Ibn Abbas. This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was narrated by Hammad b. From Salama, Yahya b. It was narrated by Isaac. Many people refer to this hadith as Sabit and Abdullah b. They quoted it from Rebah as mursal.
450-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the entire night prayer with a verse from the Qur'an.” (According to the narration of Ibn Majah, this verse is the 5th Maida: 118th verse.) (Reported by Tirmidhi) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
451-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Abi Qays (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I asked 'Aisha (radiyallahu anha) whether the reciting of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) in the night prayers was open or hidden. Aisha said: She did it both ways, sometimes she would read secretly and sometimes she would read aloud. Then I said: Praise be to Allah, who has made it easy for us by expanding our worship and works.” (Abu Dawud, Vitr: 11; Muslim, Musafirin: 29) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
452-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The best prayer, apart from the obligatory prayer, is the one performed at home." (Muslim, Musafirin: 29; Abu Dâvûd, Vitr: 11) In this regard, Ömer b. Hattab, Câbir b. Abdillah, Abu Said, Abu Huraira, Ibn Omar, Aisha, Abdullah b. Sa'd and Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Khalid al-Juheni. Zayd b. The fixed hadith is hasan. There is disagreement about the narration of this hadith. Musa b. Ukbe and Ibrahim b. Abun Nadr narrated it as a merfu. Malik b. Anas, on the other hand, narrated it from Abu'n Nadr as a mawkuf. What is conveyed as merfu is more authentic.
453-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Perform the sunnah prayers in your houses, so that you do not turn your houses into graves where prayers are not performed.” (Muslim, Musafirin: 29) This hadith is hasan.
454-) Harice b. It was narrated from Huzafe (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to us and said: “Allah has ordered you to perform one more prayer other than five times, which is better for you than red camels. This prayer is the witr prayer, and the time to perform it starts after the night before the time of the morning prayer begins." (Ebû Dâvûd, Vitr: 1; İbn Mâce, İkame: 114) In this regard, Ebû Hüreyre, Abdullah b. The hadiths were also narrated from Amr, Burayda, and Abu Basra al-Gifari. Harice b. The hadith of Huzafa is strange. Only Yazid b. We know from the narration of Ebi Habib. The narrators in this hadith were suspicious and hesitant, and Abdullah b. Rashid al-Zureki said that this is not true. The name of Abu Basra al-Gifârî was Humeyl b. It is Basra. Some people like Jamil b. They say Basra, which is not true. Abu Basra al-Gifari is another person, and he is the son of Abu Dharr's brother, who is narrated from Abu Dharr.
454-) Harice b. It was narrated from Huzafe (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to us and said: “Allah has ordered you to perform one more prayer other than five times, which is better for you than red camels. This prayer is the witr prayer, and the time to perform it starts after the night before the time of the morning prayer begins." (Ebû Dâvûd, Vitr: 1; İbn Mâce, İkame: 114) In this regard, Ebû Hüreyre, Abdullah b. The hadiths were also narrated from Amr, Burayda, and Abu Basra al-Gifari. Harice b. The hadith of Huzafa is strange. Only Yazid b. We know from the narration of Ebi Habib. The narrators in this hadith were suspicious and hesitant, and Abdullah b. Rashid al-Zureki said that this is not true. The name of Abu Basra al-Gifârî was Humeyl b. It is Basra. Some people like Jamil b. They say Basra, which is not true. Abu Basra al-Gifari is another person, and he is the son of Abu Dharr's brother, who is narrated from Abu Dharr.
455-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Witr prayer is not a necessary prayer to be performed like the obligatory prayers. However, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) performed this prayer and said: "Allah loves the only one. (Abu Dâvûd, Vitr: 1; Dârimî, Salat: 209) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar, Ibn Mas'ud and Ibn Abbas on this subject. This hadith is hasan.
456-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Witr prayer is not a prayer that must be performed continuously like the obligatory prayers. However, a sunnah (nafilah) prayer performed by the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)." (Ebû Dâvûd, Vitr: 1; İbn Mâce, İkame: 115) in this way, we are told from Abu Ishak, Sufyan, Abdurrahman b. Mahdi, Muhammed b. Bashar quoted. This narration is from Abu Bakr b. It is more authentic than the narration of Ayyaş. b. In Mu'temir, from Abu Ishaq, Abu Bakr b. He narrated a hadith similar to the narration of Ayyaş.
457-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered me to perform witr before going to sleep." (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 122; Abu Dâvûd, Vitr: 7) The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan garib in this form. Sevr el Ezdî's name is Habib b. Ebi Müleyke. Companions and scholars of the Tabi'in period said that one should not sleep without making a vitreous. It has been narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) that: “If one of you is worried that he will not be able to wake up at the end of the night, let him perform a witr before going to bed in the first hours of the night.” Whoever is able to get up at the last moment of the night should do so at the end of the night because angels are present to listen to the Qur'an recited at the end of the night, which is more valuable. Hennad us this hadith in this way; It was narrated from Abu Muawiya, A'mesh, Abu Sufyan and Jabir.
458-) It is narrated from Masrûk (radiy-Allâhu anh): Masrûk asked Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) from the window of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said; Aisha answered as follows: “He has made a vitreous at all times of the night, that is, at the beginning, middle and end of the night. Towards the end of his life, he would do it at dawn.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Vitr: 8; İbn Mâce: İkame: 121) The name of Ebû Husayn is “Osman b. He is Asim al-Asadî. On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Ali, Jabir, Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari and Abu Qatada. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. Some scholars preferred to perform the witr at the end of the night.
459-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray thirteen rak'ahs, and when he got old and weak, he would do it with seven rak'ahs.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Vitr: 3; Bukhari, Vitr: 2) A hadith was also reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) on this subject. The hadith of Umm Salama is hasan. It is also narrated that there are thirteen, eleven, nine, seven, five, three, one rak'ahs from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). b. Ibrahim: The meaning of the hadith "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform thirteen rak'ats of witr" means: The night prayer would be thirteen rak'ahs in total, together with the witr. That's why the night prayer was said by adding the witr, he also narrated a hadith from Aisha (radiyallahu anha). “O people of the Qur'an, make a showcase.” Night prayer is meant here, and it is meant that night prayer is the duty of those who know the Qur'an well.
460-) (The 458th hadith was omitted in the original Arabic, and this hadith, which is given in the explanation section of the 457th hadith, may be hadith number 458.)
461-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The night prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was thirteen rak'ahs. He would perform five of them as vitr and sit in the fifth rak'ah. When the muezzin recited the morning prayer, he would get up and perform two rak'ahs of light circumcision.” (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 123; Abu Dâvûd, Vitr: 3) A hadith was also reported from Abu Ayyub on this subject. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. Some of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the scholars of the later period are of the opinion that the Witr is five rak'ahs and that one will sit in the fifth rak'ah. I asked Abu Mus'ab al-Madini what the hadith "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform nine and seven rak'ahs..." means, he said: it would have misfired.”
462-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the witr as three rak'ahs, reciting nine short suras in these rak'ahs, and reciting three suras in each rak'ah, which is the last one. The surah he recited would have been the surah "Ihlas"." (Musnad: 640) Imran b. Hadiths were also narrated from Husayn, Aisha, Ibn Abbas and Abu Ayyub. Abdurrahman b. Ubey b. A hadith was narrated from Ka'b. Likewise, Abdurrahman b. A hadith was also reported from Ebza himself. Some hadith scholars narrate from Abdurrahman himself, Ubay b. They do not mention Ka'b. Some of them are Abdurrahman b. Ebza and Ubey b. They say Ka'b. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and later periods are of the opinion that the witr prayer should be performed three rak'ahs. es Sevrî says: You can pray five, three or one rak'ah if you wish, I like to pray three rak'ahs. This is the view of Ibn al-Mubarak and the people of Kufa. b. Yakup et Talekanî, Hammad b. From Zayd, Hisham, Muhammad b. It was narrated from Sirin that they said: That is, the Companions and the notables of the Tabi'in would pray as five, three or one rak'ah, and they would see all of them as good.
463-) Enes b. According to the narration from Sirin (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I asked Ibn Omar, should I recite the two rak'ah sunnah of the morning prayer in length? Thereupon, he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would perform the night prayer as two rak'ahs, and he would have missed the prayer he performed in a single rak'ah (witr). As soon as the morning prayer was recited, he would perform the sunnah of the morning prayer of two rak'ahs lightly." (Ibn Mâce, Ikame: 123; Abu Dâvûd, Vitr: 3) Aisha, Câbir, Fadl b. Hadith was also narrated from Abbas, Abu Ayyub and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. And some of the scholars of the course are of this opinion, and they are of the opinion that a person should distinguish between two rak'ahs and the third one rak'ah with a greeting. Malik, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
464-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite the surahs “A'la, Kafirun and Ikhlas” in one rak'ah each. (Ebû Dâvûd, Vitr: 4; İbn Mâce, İkame: 115) Ali, Âişe, Abdurrahman b. Ebza and Ubey b. Hadith was also narrated from Ka'b. Moreover; Abdurrahman b. It is also reported from Ebza. Again, in the third rak'ah of the witr of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); It is also narrated that he recited the suras of Nas, Felak and İhlas. and the majority of the scholars of the Tabiun period in each of the three rak'ahs; They preferred to read the suras of A'la, Kafirun and İhlas.
465-) Abdulaziz b. According to Jurayc, she said: "I asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha) what the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would recite in the vitr prayer. He said: "In the first rak'ah, he recited Surah A'la, in the second rak'ah, Kafirun, and in the third rak'ah, Ihlas and Muavvizeteyn, that is, Felak and Nas." (Ebû Dâvûd, Vitr: 4; İbn Mâce, İkame: 117) This hadith is hasan garib. Abdulaziz is the father of Ibn Jurayc, a friend of A'ta. Ibn Jurayc's name is; Abdulmalik b. Abdulaziz b. It is Cureyc. b. Said al-Ansari narrated this hadith from Amra and Aisha.
466-) Hasan b. According to what is reported from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) taught me the prayer that I would recite in the witr, "O Allah, when you make me sound healthy and well, I am also my deputy, like the people whose affairs you arrange well. Be, and guide me with what You have guided. Protect me from the evil of destiny, and bless the blessings you have given me. You rule everyone, you cannot be ruled, anyone you are a parent will never be humiliated, deficiencies do not suit you. O our Lord! You are great and blessed.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Vitr: 5; İbn Mâce, İkame: 117) A hadith was also reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) on this subject. This hadith is hasan; in this way Rabia b. We know it from the narration of Ebul Havra es Sadi, who is called Shayban. We do not know of a better hadith than this, which is narrated about kunut in witr. Scholars have put forward different views about kunut in the showcase; Abdullah b. Mas'ud used to predict that the kunut should be done before ruku' all year in the witr. Some scholars are of this opinion, including Sufyan es-Sevri, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Ishaq and the people of Kufe. Ali b. It was also narrated from Abi Talib that he performed kunut after ruku' in the second half of Ramadan. Some scholars such as Shafii and Ahmed are among them.
467-) According to what was narrated from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever spends the Witr prayer while asleep or forgetting it, let him perform it immediately when he remembers and wakes up.” (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 122) This hadith is more authentic than the previous hadith. Suleiman b. According to what I heard from Abu Dâvûd es Siczî, who is also called Eş'as, he was saying: Ahmed b. Hanbel'e, Abdurrahman b. Zayd b. I asked Eslem, she said her brother Abdullah was harmless. According to what I heard from Bukhari, Ali b. Abdullah, Abdurrahman b. Zayd b. Essence is weak. Abdullah b. Zayd b. Eslem is a reliable person. Some of the people of Kufa acted according to this hadith and they say that when a person remembers, even after the sun has risen, he makes witr. Like Sûfyan es Sevrî.
468-) Zayd b. According to what is reported from Eslem's father, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever has spent the Witr prayer due to sleep, should do it immediately in the morning." (Ibn Majah, Substitution: 122)
469-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Hasten to perform the witr prayer before morning comes.” (Abu Dawud, Vitr: 7) This hadith is hasan authentic.
470-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Perform the witr prayer before you enter the morning." (Abu Dawud, Vitr: 7)
471-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When the time for the morning prayer begins, the night prayer and the witr prayer are not performed, so perform the witr prayer before the morning prayer time." (Ebû Dâvûd, Vitr: 9) With these words, the hadith was written only by Süleyman b. It was narrated by Moses. It is also narrated that (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whirl is not performed after the morning prayer.” Many scholars hold this view. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq; They are of the opinion that witr is not performed after the morning prayer.
472-) Talk b. According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "If the witr prayer is not performed twice in one night, that is, if he performs the night prayer after performing witr, there is no need to perform witr again." (Abu Dawud, Vitr: 9) This hadith is hasan garib. His devotees put forward different views on the situation of a person who performs the witr before the night and then stands up for the night prayer. The Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and some of the later ones said: The witr prayer of a person in this situation will be broken, he adds one rak'ah to the witr prayer he performed before the night, then performs the night prayer as many times as he wishes, then performs the witr prayer at the end of the night prayer, like this. By doing this, the hadith of not performing two witrs in one night is also complied with. one of them. On the other hand, the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and some other scholars, the person who performs the witr prayer before the night sleeps, then gets up for the night prayer and prays as much as he wishes, leaving the witr prayer he performed before. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik b. Among them are Enes, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, the people of Kufe and Ahmed. This view is more correct because it has reached us with different narrations that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed after the witr prayer.
473-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray two rak'ats after the witr prayer." (Darimi, Salat: 215) This hadith was also narrated by Abu Umama, Aisha and others in similar ways.
474-) Said b. According to the narration from Yasar (radiyallahu anh), he said: “I was with Ibn Umar on a journey, I was a little behind. Where were you? He asked, I said I had performed the witr prayer. He said: "Isn't the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) the best example for you? I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performing the witr prayer on his binti." (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 127) A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods are of the opinion that it can be performed on a binit. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars say: "The witr prayer is not performed on the binit, it comes down from the binit and prays it on the ground." Some scholars of Kufa think so.
475-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs of morning prayer, Allah will build him a golden mansion in Paradise." (Muslim, Musafirin: 13; Abu Dâvûd, Tatavvu: 12) Umm Hani, Abu Huraira, Nuaym b. Hemmar, Ebû Zerr, Aisha, Abu Umama, Utbe b. Abdis Sülemî, İbn Ebi Evfâ, Ebû Said, Zeyd b. Hadith was also narrated from Arkam and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Anas is strange, we only know it in this way.
476-) Abdurrahman b. According to a narration from Abi Layla (radiyallahu anh), she said: “Ummu Hani told me that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform the mid-morning prayer. He said that on the day of the conquest of Makkah, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered his house and performed a ghusl and performed eight rak'ahs. He had done his prostrations perfectly.” (Muslim, Musafirin: 13) This hadith is hasan authentic. The most authentic hadith on this subject is the hadith of Umm Hani. The hadithists disagreed about who Nuaym was; some of them Nuaym b. When they said he was Hammar, some of them said Ibn Hemmar, Ibn Hebbar and Ibn Hemam. It is indeed Ibn Hemmar. His teacher, Abu Nuaym, doubted this person and said "Ibn Himaz" and he was wrong. Then he abandons this conviction and says, “From Nuaym Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) …). Abd b. Humayd informed me of this from Abu Nuaym, Bukhari's teacher.
477-) According to what is narrated from Abu'd Darda and Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anhuma); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) reported that Allah said: "O son of Adam, pray four rak'ahs at the beginning of the day so that I can meet your every need until the end of the day." (Abu Dawud, Tatawwu: 12) This hadith is hasan garib.
478-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever continues the Duha prayer, which is performed in pairs, his sins will be forgiven, even if they are as much as the foam of the sea." (Ebû Dâvûd, Tatavvu: 12) Vekî', Nadr b. Şümeyl and many hadith scholars reported this hadith as Nehhas b. They narrated from Kahm. We know this hadith only from his narration.
479-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray the mid-morning prayer constantly, we used to say that he would never stop, and again he would leave the mid-morning prayer for days, we would say that we would not pray it at all.” (Muslim, Musafirin: 13) This hadith is hasan garib.
480-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Saib (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray four rak'ahs before noon when the sun shifted to the west and said: "It is the hour when the gates of the sky are opened. And I like my deeds to rise to Allah at that hour.” (Musnad: 14849) A hadith has also been narrated from Ali and Abu Ayyub on this subject. Abdullah b. The sâib hadith is hasan garib. It was also narrated from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) that, "When the sun shifted to the west, he would pray four rak'ahs and greet in the last rak'ah."
481-) Abdullah b. According to what was narrated from Abu Awfa (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever has a request or need from Allah and people, let him make a good ablution, perform two rak'ats of prayer, then praise Allah and give praise to Allah. After sending salawat on the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) he should say: There is no god but Allah, who is merciful and does not rush to impose punishments. I know Allah, who is the owner of the great throne, away from all kinds of deficiencies, and I accept that he is with all kinds of perfection. All full praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the worlds. O Allah, I ask You for everything that causes your mercy, the reasons that require your forgiveness, and to stay away from all kinds of sins. O Allah, I ask you to forgive all my sins and to remove all my sorrows and to meet my every need in accordance with Your consent, O Most Merciful of the merciful." (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 189) This hadith is garib and is mentioned in its document. b. It has been said that Abdurrahman was weak in hadith. Faid Ebul Verka.
482-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to teach us istihara in all our affairs as if he were teaching us a surah from the Qur'an, and he would say: “When one of you wants to do something, he should pray two rak'ats other than the obligatory prayer and say, "O Allah, since you know what is good for me, I want you to tell me what is good for me. I ask you to strengthen me with your power and strength, and I ask everything from your great grace. Because you are omnipotent and I have no power at all, you know everything and I cannot know, you are the only one who knows everything that cannot be known with reason and thinking. O Allah, if you know that what I am going to do is good for me about my religion, my life and the end of my work - which you certainly do - make it easy for me to do it. If you know that this job is bad for me about my religion, my life and the result of my work - and you definitely know - take him away from me (or he said this is my day and my future), keep me away from him, no, appreciate him for me and make him consent, By saying me, he says whatever his job is.” (Nesai, Nikah: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Vitr: 31) In this regard, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Mas'ud and Abu Ayyub. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sahih garib and only Abdurrahman b. We know through ebil Mevali. No one is an old man from Medina and is a reliable person. Sufyan narrated hadith from him. Many hadith imams also narrated hadiths from him. Abdurrahman b. Zayd b. Abi Mevali.
483-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), his mother, Umm Sulaym, went to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “Teach me what I will read in my prayer.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Say Allahu Akbar ten times, Subhanallah ten times, Alhamdulillah ten times, then ask for whatever you wish. Allah says yes yes to these requests.” (Abu Dawud, Tatavvu: 14) Ibn Abbas, Abdullah b. Amr, Fadl b. Hadith was also narrated from Abbas and Abu Rafi. The hadith of Anas is hasan garib. Many hadiths related to tasbih prayer from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) are narrated, most of which are not authentic. Blessed and many scholars reveal the narrations about the rosary prayer and express the value and value of this prayer. b. According to what Abde ed Dabbi reported to us from Abu Vehb, Abdullah b. I asked Mubarak about the rosary prayer and he said: "After saying takbir, you recite the "Subhanake" prayer fifteen times, then say "Subhanallahi velhamdulillahi vela ilaha illallahu vallahu akbar" fifteen times, recite the euze basmala for a while along with the Fatiha time and then say "Subhanallahi velhamdulillahi" ten times. You say vela ilahe illallahu vallahu akbar, then you go to ruku' and say it ten times in the same way, when you get up from ruku', you say it again ten times. When you reach the prostration, say ten times, when you get up from the prostration, say it ten times, then go to the second prostration and say it ten times again, in this way you will complete the four rak'ahs. Thus, you recite seventy-five tasbihat in each rak'ah, you start each rak'ah with fifteen tasbihat, and after reciting the Fatiha and the surah, the prayer continues by reciting ten tasbihat. It is better for me to perform this prayer at night and to greet in two rak'ahs. If he prays during the day, he can salute in two rak'ahs or in four rak'ahs. Wahb says: Abdulaziz b. Ebû Rizme, Abdullah b. Quoting Mubarak, he added the following: "Subhana Rabbiyal azım three times in bowing, three times Subhana Rabbiyal A'la in prostration and continues the rosary utterances." b. Abde, Vehb b. From Abdulaziz via Zem'a; He was the son of Abu Rizme, narrating that he said: Abdullah b. I asked Mubarak, if someone makes a mistake in the tasbih prayer, should he recite tasbih ten times during the sahw prostrations? He said no. Their number is three hundred rosaries.
484-) According to the narration from Abu Rafi' (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to his uncle Abbas: “O Uncle, should I do you a favor because of kinship? May I benefit you by doing a favor?” Abbas said: Yes, O Messenger of Allah. Thereupon, he said: "O uncle, perform a four-rak'ah prayer. In each rak'ah, you recite a surah together with Fatiha, then fifteen times: Say "Allahu akbar velhamdulillahi wa subhanallahi vela ilaha illallah" ten times in ruku' and ten times in prostration. Say it once, then raise your head from the prostration ten times, when you reach the second prostration, say it ten times again, without getting up from the second prostration, say it ten times, so that the number of these tasbihats becomes seventy-five in each rak'ah, and three hundred tasbihat in four rak'ahs. Even if your sins are as many as the sands of the desert, Allah will forgive them. Abbas: O Messenger of Allah! Said. Who can do this every day? Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If you can't do it every day, do it once a week, from Friday to Friday. perform this prayer." (There is an excess in the narration of Ibn Abbas: If you cannot do this, do it once in your life.) (Ibn Majah, Ikame, 190) This hadith is strange because of the narration of Abu Rafi'.
485-) Ka'b b. According to the narration from Ucre (radiyallahu anh), he said: O Messenger of Allah! We learned how to greet you, now can we learn how to bring salawat? They said; say: “Allahummesalli ala Muhammadin wa ala ali Muhammad, kema salleyte ala Ibrahim inneke hamidun mecid wa barik ala Muhammadin wa ala ali Muhammad kema barekte ala Ibrahim inneke hamidun mecid.” “O Allah, treat Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and his descendants and his believing relatives as you treated Ibrahim and his family line well, indeed, you are the one with the highest honor and glory worthy of praise. Bless Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with his lineage and his believing relatives, as You blessed Ibrahim’s lineage and believing relatives and blessed them with fruitful lives. Truly, you are the one who is worthy of praise.” (Nesai, Sahv: 46) Narrated by Abu Usama, he said: Zaide, from A'mesh, from referee, Abdurrahman b. He made the following addition from ebî Leylâ: “We also say “ve aleyna meahüm” (with them also on us…) Ali, Abu Humayd, Abu Mes'ud, Talha, Abu Said, Burayde, Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Harice and Abu Huraira. Ka'b b. The hadith of Ucre is hasan authentic. Abdurrahman b. Abu Layla's identity card is Abu Isa. Abu Layla's name is Yesâr.
486-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The person who will be closest to me on the Day of Judgment is the one who sends me the most salawat." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. It is also narrated from the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): "Whoever sends salawat on me, Allah will have mercy on him ten times." In this regard, Abdurrahman b. Avf, Âmir b. Rabia, Ammar, Abu Talha, Enes and Ubey b. Hadith was also narrated from Ka'b. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. According to the narration from Sufyan es-Tevri and many scholars, they said: Allah's salat is his mercy, and the angels' salat is to ask for forgiveness.
487-) According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever sends one salawat on me, Allah writes the reward of ten salawat on that person.” (Nesâî, Sahv: 47) Abdurrahman b. Avf, Âmir b. Rabia, Ammar, Abu Talha, Enes and Ubey b. Hadith was also narrated from Ka'b. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. According to what is reported from Sufyan es Sevrî and many scholars; Allah's salat means his mercy, and the angels' salat means asking for forgiveness (forgiveness) to people.
488-) Umar b. According to the narration from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The prayer stands between the sky and the earth, and nothing from that prayer rises to Allah's presence until the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sends his blessings.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
489-) Umar b. According to what is reported from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Let those who are religious scholars, that is, those who know the religious rules of shopping, sell in our market." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. First Name; Ibn Abdulazim. Ala b. Abdurrahman is the son of Yakub, the freed man of Abul Hureka. It is natural. He also heard hadiths from Anas and other Companions. Ala's father, Abdurrahman b. Likewise, Yakub is natural. He heard hadiths from Abu Huraira, Abu Said al-Khudri and Ibn Omar. his grandfather Yakub is one of the greats of nature. Umar b. He was one of the people who trained with Khattab and narrated hadiths from him.
490-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The best day when the sun rises; It's Friday. Adam was created on that day, he entered Paradise on that day and was taken out of Paradise that day. (Nesai, Friday: 4; Bukhari, Friday: 4) Abu Lübabe, Salman, Abu Zerr, Sa'd b. Ubade, Evs b. A hadith was also narrated from Aws. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
490-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The best day when the sun rises; It's Friday. Adam was created on that day, he entered Paradise on that day and was taken out of Paradise that day. (Nesai, Friday: 4; Bukhari, Friday: 4) Abu Lübabe, Salman, Abu Zerr, Sa'd b. Ubade, Evs b. A hadith was also narrated from Aws. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
491-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “The expected time when prayers will be accepted on Friday; Search within the time period after the afternoon until the sun goes down.” (Nesai, Friday: 45; Muvatta, Friday: 7) This hadith is strange in this respect. This hadith was also narrated in different ways from Anas. b. Abi Humayd was seen as weak. Some scholars have said that he is weak in terms of memory. Himself, Hammad b. It is mentioned in Abi Humayd and Abu Ibrahim al-Ansari, their hadiths are not welcomed. Many scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods said that this expected hour is the time after the afternoon until the sun sets. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. He says: “Most of the hadiths about the time when prayers are expected to be accepted are after the afternoon prayer. It can be hoped that it will happen even after the sun has shifted west.”
492-) Amr b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Avf al-Muzeni (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “There is an hour on Friday; Whatever the servant asks of his Lord, Allah will certainly grant him that request.” O Messenger of Allah, what time is that hour? (Muvatta, Friday: 7) Abu Musa, Abu Zerr, Salman, Abdullah b. Salam, Abu Lübabe, Sa'd b. A hadith was also narrated from Ubade and Abu Umama. Amr b. The hadith of awf is hasan garib.
493-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The best day when the sun rises is Friday. Adam was created that day, and that day he was put in Paradise, and that day he was expelled from Paradise. There is an hour in that day; A Muslim servant commemorates that hour by praying, and whatever good he wishes from Allah at that moment, Allah immediately grants that request.” Hüreyre says: Abdullah b. I met Salam and I reminded him of this hadith and he said: I know that time. I said let me know about that time and don't hide it from me. He said: It is after the afternoon until the sun sets. Me too; How can it be after the afternoon, because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "The Muslim servant coincides with that time while praying." However, I said that those times are not the time to pray. on Abdullah b. Salam said: "Didn't the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say, "Didn't he say that he is sitting in a place and waiting for the prayer while praying?" I said yes. He said: That's what it means." (Bukhari, Friday: 4; Nesai, Friday: 4) This hadith is long, the relevant part is included here. This hadith is hasan authentic. The meaning of the phrase "Tell me about that hour and don't hide it from me" means: "Don't be stingy and mean".
494-) According to the narration from the father of Salim (radiyallahu anh), he heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) saying: (Bukhari, Friday: 2; Nesai, Friday: 7) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ömer, Abu Said, Jabir, Bara, Aisha and Abu'd Darda. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic.
495-) Abdullah b. Umar (radiyallahu anh)'s father, similar to this hadith, Kutaybe, Leys b. Sa'd, Ibn Shihab, Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Umar and his father. al-Bukhari said: According to the hadith Zuhri narrated from Salim, his father, Abdullah b. Both hadiths narrated by Abdullah from his father are authentic. Some of Zuhrî's friends say, conveying from Zuhri: Abdullah b. Umar's family told us from Ibn Umar. According to the narration of Ibn Umar from Umar (radiyallahu anh), he narrated a similar hadith to us. The hadith about performing ghusl on Friday is hasan sound.
496-) According to the narration from the father of Salim (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “One Friday, while Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) was delivering the sermon, one of the companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered the mosque. He said that you stayed. Is it only wudu in Omar? Even though you know that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered to make a ghusl?" They commanded. (Bukhari, Friday: 2; Muslim, Friday: 7) we are told this hadith by Abu Bakr, Muhammad b. They also narrated from Ebân, Abdurrazzak, Ma'mer and Zuhri.
497-) Abdullah b. From Abdurrahman Abu Salih, Abdullah b. This hadith has been transmitted to us from Salih, Leys, Yunus and Zuhri. He narrates this hadith from Zuhri and Salim, saying, "When Omar was delivering the sermon on Friday," he narrates the hadith to us. When I asked Muhammad about this narration of Malik, he said that the authentic narration is Zuhri's narration from Salim and his father. Muhammad says: This hadith was narrated by Malik from Zuhri, Salim and his father in approximately the same way.
498-) Evs b. According to a narration from Aws, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever does all kinds of cleaning on Friday and takes ablution on Friday, goes to the mosque early for Friday prayer, gets close to the imam, stays silent and listens to the sermon, then he spends the day and night fasting in return for every step he takes on this path. The reward of a year's deed spent in worship is earned." (Nesai, Friday: 8) Abdullah b. According to what is reported from Mubarak, the meaning of the word "Gasselevagtesele" in the hadith is if he washes his head and makes a ghusl. In this regard, Abu Bakr, Imran b. Hadith was also narrated from Husayn, Salman, Abu Dharr, Abu Said, Ibn Omar and Abu Ayyub. Evs b. The hadith of aws is hasan. The name of Eş'as es Sanani is Şerahîl İbn-ü Âde. Abu Cenap: Yahya b. He is Habib al-Kassab al-Kufi.
499-) Samura b. According to what is reported from Jundub (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever makes wudu on Friday means that he has done a good job. Whoever makes a ghusl is more valuable and valuable.” (Nesai, Friday: 9) A hadith was also reported from Abu Huraira, Aisha and Enes on this subject. The hadith of Samura is hasan. Some of his friends reported this hadith as Qatade, Hasan and Samura b. They also narrated it through Jundup. Some of them are from Qatada through Hasan as “Mürsel”, that is, the Companions are skipped in the narration, and the subject is transmitted directly from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later scholars acted on this hadith: They said that a ghusl on Friday is pleasant, but normal wudu' can be sufficient instead of ghusl. He says: It is not wâjib for the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) to order a ghusl on Friday, but wudu or ghusl indicates that the person is free to choose what he wants. As in the hadith of Umar, wudu is also valid. It was wâjib for the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) to say, "Make wudu' on Friday, and if there was no freedom between wudu and ghusl, Umar and Uthman would have known this fact. Ömer would turn Osman and say: "Make a loop". Despite all his knowledge, this matter would not remain secret to Osman. However, this hadith includes the meaning: "To make a ghusl on Friday is a valuable thing for a person, but it is not a compulsory thing to do".
500-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever makes his ablution well, comes to the mosque for Friday, sits close to the imam, stays silent, and listens to the imam, his minor sins between two Fridays will be increased by three days. is forgiven. Whoever is busy with pebbles and similar things during the khutbah will have less thawab because he has done nothing." (Bukhari, Friday: 35; Nasai, Friday: 22) This hadith is hasan authentic.
501-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever goes to the mosque in the first hours by washing like a junub on Friday; He earns a reward like the sacrifice of a camel. If he leaves in the second hour; If a cow is sacrificed, it will be rewarded, and if it leaves at the third hour; He gains the reward as if he had sacrificed a great ram, and if he left in the fourth hour; If a chicken earns rewards as if he has given charity, if he leaves at the fifth hour; He earns rewards as if he had given an egg to charity. When the imam ascends the pulpit, the angels are ready and listen to the sermon.” (Nesai, Friday: 13) In this regard, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr and Samura. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
502-) Muhammed b. According to what was reported by Amr (radiyallahu anh), Abu Ca'd Eddamri, who is said to be a Companion, said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever neglects Friday and leaves Friday three times without an excuse, Allah will seal the heart of that person. ” (Nesai, Friday: 2; Muslim, Friday: 12) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ibn Omar, Ibn Abbas and Samura. The hadith of Abul Ja'd is hasan. I asked Muhammad the name of Ebul Ca'd Eddamri, he did not know and said: "We only know this hadith as his narration from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)." This hadith is only reported by Muhammad b. We know from the narration of Amr.
503-) According to a narration from the father of Suwayr (radiy-Allâhu anh) from Quba, who was one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to order us to join Friday from Quba ” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) Another hadith on this subject was reported from Hurayra and it is not authentic. We know this hadith only in this way. No authentic hadith has been reported from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) on this subject. There is also a narration from Hurayra as follows: “Going to the mosque for Friday is necessary for anyone who can return home before nightfall.” The evidence of this hadith is weak because Abdullah b. From Sa'd el Makburî, Muarik b. It comes through 'Abbad. Yahya b. Said el Kattan: Abdullah b. Said al Makburi says that he is a weak person in his hadith. Scholars have put forward different views on the distance to go to Friday. Some of them say that those who are far enough to return to their homes before night can come, while others say that it is wâjib on those who can hear the call to prayer. Ahmad and Ishaq are among those who hold this view.
504-) Ahmed b. I heard Hasen (radiyallahu anh) saying: Ahmed b. We were with Hanbal, the subject of who is it necessary to go to Friday was mentioned. Ahmed b. Hanbel didn't mention anything about it. Ahmed b. Hasan said: Ahmad b. I said to Hanbal that a hadith was narrated from Abu Hurayra. Ahmed b. Is Hanbal from the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)? Said. Saying yes to me, Haccac b. Nusayr, Muarik b. Abbad, Abdullah b. Said al Makburi, I quoted the narration from his father and Abu Huraira: "Going to Friday is necessary for anyone who is far enough to return home before night." Thereupon, Ahmad b. Hanbal got angry and said, "Ask forgiveness from your Lord, ask forgiveness from your Lord" for the sin you committed because I conveyed such a narration to me. (Tirmidhi narrated.) Ahmed b. Hanbel's doing like this; This is because he does not accept this hadith as a hadith and considers it weak due to its sign.
505-) Enes b. According to what is reported from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to perform Friday when the sun was inclined to the west.” (Bukhari, Friday: 15; Nesai, Friday: 14)
506-) There is another similar narration from Anas. In this regard, Salama b. Ekvâ', Câbir, Zübeyr b. A hadith was also narrated from Avvam. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic. The majority of scholars agreed on this hadith. They said that Friday will be performed like noon. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars say that it can be done before the sun tends to the west. Ahmad does not say, "One who prays before the sun tends to the west, must perform the prayer again."
507-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to deliver a sermon based on a palm stump, and when he received a pulpit, that stump groaned. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) came and hugged him, his moaning stopped." (Bukhari, Friday: 25) Enes, Câbir, Sahl b. Sa'd, Ubey b. Hadith was also narrated from Ka'b, Ibn Abbas and Umm Salama. The hadith of Ibn Umar hasan garib is authentic. b. Ala is from Basra and Amr b. He is Ala's brother.
508-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would deliver a sermon on Friday, then sit, then stand up and continue his sermon. Ibn Umar said: "As it is done today." (Bukhari, Friday: 29; Nesai, Friday: 33) Ibn Abbas, Jabir b. Abdillah, Câbir b. A hadith was also narrated from Samura. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. Scholars are of the opinion that the interval between two sermons should be separated by a sitting.
509-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I used to pray together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and his sermons and prayers would be of medium length." (Nesai, Friday: 31) In this regard, Ammar b. A hadith was also narrated from Yasir, Ibn Abi Awfa. Jabir b. The hadith of Samura is hasan authentic.
510-) Ya'la b. According to the narration from Umayya's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father, he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was on the pulpit: “Those people of Hell will call the guardian of Hell, O Malik. “May your Lord give his judgment and finish us off, it is better to die and be ashes than to burn like this. The officer will say: No, you will burn like this forever before you die here.” I heard it while I was reading the 77th verse of Surah Zuhruf. (Nesai, Friday: 28) Ya'la b. The hadith of Umayya is hasan sahih. This hadith is the hadith of Ibn Uyayna. Scholars have said that the imam should recite verses from the Qur'an in the sermon. Shafi'i: "If the imam does not recite the Qur'an in his sermon, he must return his sermon." says.
511-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The moment the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) turned towards the congregation on the pulpit, we would turn our faces towards him." (Tirmidhi narrated it.) There is also a narration from Ibn Umar on this subject. Only Muhammad b. Fadl b. We know that Atiyye narrated it. Muhammed b. Fadl b. Atiyya is weak compared to the hadithists and all his hadiths are weak. Many scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods say that when the imâm is giving a sermon, he should turn to him. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. There is no authentic narration from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) on the subject.
512-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “On Friday, when the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was delivering a sermon, a man appeared. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked him, did you pray?” he commanded. When he said, "No," he said, "Then get up and pray." (Nesai, Friday: 16; Bukhari, Friday: 31) This hadith is hasan authentic. (The most authentic on this subject)
513-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Ebî Serh (radiy-Allâhu anh): “A Friday, when Marwan was delivering a sermon, Abu Said al-Khudri entered the mosque and stood for prayer. The officials came to make him sit, but he did not sit down, he insisted and prayed. When he finished his prayer, we went to him and said: God spared you, almost the officials were going to prevent you from praying. Thereupon, he said: I will never abandon these two rak'ah prayers that I saw from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Then, while the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was delivering the sermon on Friday, he reminded that a person came dressed in a shabby outfit and that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered him to offer two rak’ahs during the sermon, and he did it as well.” (Bukhari, Friday: 31) Abi Omar says: Sûfyan b. If the Uyayna came while the imam was delivering the sermon, he would pray two rak'ahs and order it to be done. The Qur'an teacher, Abu Abdurrahman, was of the same opinion. I heard from Ibn Umar, Ibn Uyeyna said that it was narrated: Muhammad b. Aclân is a reliable and confident person about hadith. On this subject, Câbir, Ebû Hüreyre, Sahl b. A hadith was also narrated from Sa'd. The hadith of Abu Said al-Khudri is hasan authentic. scholars acted according to this hadith. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars say: "If the imam enters the mosque while delivering the sermon, he does not sit and pray." Such is the view of Sufyan as-Sevri and the people of Kufa. But the first view is more correct. Ala b. Quoting Khalid al-Qurashi, he said: “I saw Hasan al-Basri, while the imam was delivering the sermon, he entered the mosque, prayed two rak'ahs, and then sat down.” Hasan al-Basri did so in order to comply with this hadith. It is he who narrated this hadith through Jabir.
514-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever tells his friend to be quiet while the imam is delivering the sermon on Friday, he has done nothing.” (Nesâî, Friday: 22; Muvatta, Friday: 5) Ibn ebî Evfâ and Câbir b. Hadith was narrated from Abdullah. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. His men acted according to this hadith and did not welcome the person's speech while the imam was delivering the sermon. They also adopted different views on greeting when it is recited and saying "Yerhamukallah" to those who sneeze. Some of them were allowed to greet and respond to those who sneeze while the khutbah is being delivered. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some of the Tabi'un and later scholars did not welcome them either. Like Shafi'i.
515-) Muâz b. According to the narration from the father of Enes al-Cuheni (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Whoever gets ahead of the Muslims on Friday, he has built a bridge to Hell.” (Nesai, Friday: 20; Muwatta, Friday: 8) A hadith was also reported from Jabir on this subject. Sahl b. Muaz b. The hadith of Enes al-Juheni is strange. Because this hadith only Rishdin b. We know from the narration of Sa'd. Scholars acted on this hadith and did not welcome jumping off the shoulders and going to the front lines on Friday, and they acted harshly on this issue. Some hadith scholars such as Rishdin b. They talked about Sa'd and said that he was weak in terms of memory.
516-) Muâz b. It is narrated from Anas (radiyallahu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade sitting with his knees up while the imam was delivering the sermon on Friday.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 226) This hadith is hasan. Abu Mercum's name is Abdurrahim b. Maymun. Some scholars did not like to sit with their knees up while the imam was delivering the sermon, and some of them gave permission to sit like that. Abdullah b. Like Umar and others, Ahmed and Ishaq see no harm in sitting with their knees up while the imam is delivering the sermon.
517-) According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Umara b. I heard from Ruveyba, Bishr b. While Marwan was reciting a sermon, when he raised his hands while praying, Umara said: May Allah deprive your two weak and short hands of goodness because I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) during the sermon, he would not add anything other than a sign with his index finger. Hushaym, one of the narrators of the hadith, showed his index finger to describe this event. (Some scholars have said that raising hands is not for prayer, but can also be gestures and mimics.) (Bukhari, Friday: 33) This hadith is hasan authentic.
518-) Sâib b. According to the narration from Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The adhan on Friday was recited as soon as the imâm ascended the pulpit at the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abu Bakr, and Umar. During the caliphate of Uthman (radiyallahu anh), when the congregation increased and they could not hear the adhan in the mosque, he ordered a third adhan to be chanted in the bazaar of Medina, in a place called zevra.” (Bukhari, Friday: 20) This hadith is hasan authentic.
519-) Enes b. According to what was reported from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) finished his Friday sermon and descended from the pulpit, he would talk, meet, and then perform the Friday prayer if there was a need.” (Nesâî, Friday: 36) This hadith was only reported by Cerir b. We know from the narration of Hazim. I heard from Muhammad says: Cerir b. Hazim fell into delusion in this hadith. The authentic narration is again from Anas: "The iqama for the prayer was brought, meanwhile, a person from the congregation held the hand of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and spoke to some of the congregation until they fell asleep." Muhammad said: "This is the original hadith." Jarir b. Hazim sometimes has delusions about something, but he is a correct person. says: Jarir b. Hazim also fell into delusion in the hadith "When the iqama is brought for prayer, do not stand up before you see me", narrated by Thabit from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) through Anas. Muhammad says again: Hammad b. The following is reported from Zayd: “We were with Thabit al-Bunani, Haccac es Savvaf, Yahya b. Abî Kesir from Abdullah b. He quoted the hadith from Abî Qatada, his father and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): "When the iqama is brought for prayer, do not get up before you see me". Jarir fell into delusion and reported this hadith from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) through Anas. he thought.
520-) According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “After the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) recited the iqama for prayer, a member of the congregation would stand and speak between the qibla and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The conversation went on so long: I have seen some of the congregation go to sleep during that long period of time.” (Nesai, Friday: 36; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 232) hadith hasan is authentic.
521-) According to a narration from Ubeydullah, son of Abu Rafi (radiyallahu anh), who was freed by the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), said: "Marwan left Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh) as his deputy in Medina. He went to Mecca, Abu Hurayra led us the Friday prayer and recited the Friday prayer in the first rak'ah and the munafiqun surah in the second rak'ah. Ubeydullah says: I arrived at Abu Huraira and said, "You are reading the two surahs that Ali recited in Kufa." Thereupon, Abu Huraira said: "I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) reciting these two surahs." (Nesai, Friday: 40) Ibn Abbas, Numan b. A hadith was also narrated from Bashir and Abu Inebe-t al-Havlani. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. It is also narrated that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) recited Surah A'la and Surah Gashiya in the Friday prayer. Ubeydullah b. Ebi Rafi, Ali b. Abi Talib's clerk.
522-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite the Sajda surah and the Human Surah in the morning prayer on Friday.” (Bukhari, Friday: 16) On this subject, hadiths were also reported from Sa'd, Ibn Mas'ud and Abu Huraira. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Sufyan as-Sevri, Shu'ba and many others have narrated this hadith from Muhawwal.
523-) According to the narration of Salim (radiy-Allâhu anh) from his father, he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform two rak'ahs of sunnah after Friday.” (Bukhari, Friday: 38; Nesai, Friday: 42) A hadith was also reported from Jabir on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. Likewise, this hadith was also reported from Nafi' and Ibn Umar. Some scholars acted according to this hadith. Like Shafii and Ahmed.
524-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh); Ibn Omar used to pray two rak'ahs at home after the Friday prayer and would say: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray two rak'ahs in the same way." (Abu Daud, Salat: 238; Nasai, Friday: 42) This hadith is hasan authentic.
525-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever wants to pray after Friday should pray four rak'ahs." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 236; Nesai, Friday: 44) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Ali, Ali b. al-Madinî and Sûfyan b. Quoting from Uyeyne, they said: Süheyl b. We used to accept Abi Salih as a firm and firm person in hadith. Some scholars have also acted on this hadith. b. It is narrated that Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh) performed four rak'ahs before Friday and four after Friday. b. It is also narrated that Abi Talib ordered two rak'ahs and four rak'ahs to be performed after Friday. es-Swri and Ibn al-Mubarak are in the view of Ibn Mas'ud. Before Friday, they perform four rak'ahs of sunnah after four rak'ahs. He says: If a person performs the circumcision after Friday at home, he should do it twice, and if he performs it in the mosque, he should do it four times. He bases this on the following two hadiths; “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform two rak'ahs of sunnah in his house after Friday.” “Whoever prays after Friday should pray four rak'ahs.”
526-) Tirmidhi: It is Ibn Umar who narrated that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) prayed two rak'ahs in his house after Friday. Again, Ibn Umar would pray two rak'ahs in the mosque after the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and then four rak'ahs. Likewise, Umar's son Sûfyan b. It was narrated from Ibn Jurayc and Ata from Uyeyna: "I saw Ibn Umar praying two rak'ahs after Friday and then four rak'ahs." Said b. From Abdurrahman el Mahzumi, Sûfyan b. From Uyeyna, Amr b. It has been reported to us from Dinar as follows: “I have never seen anyone more solid than Zuhrî on the subject of hadith. I have never seen anyone who values money (material) less than him, besides him, money was worthless like the opposite of an animal.” According to what I heard from Ibn Abi Umar, he said: Sufyan b. I heard from Uyeyna that he was saying: “Amr b. Dinar was older than Zuhri.”
527-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever catches up with one rak'ah of the prayer, he has reached that prayer." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 233; Nasai, Friday: 41) This hadith is hasan authentic. Many scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others acted according to this hadith and said: “Whoever catches up with one rak'ah of the Friday prayer adds another rak'ah and has performed the Friday prayer. Whoever catches up with the sitting of the second rak'ah has to perform four rak'ahs because he will not have reached Friday. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
528-) Sahl b. According to the narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), he said: "At the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) we used to eat after Friday and rest after Friday." (Bukhari, Friday: 40) hadiths were also narrated from Anas. Sahl b. The hadith of Sa'd is hasan authentic.
529-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If sleep overtakes one of you during Friday, let him change his place." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 231) This hadith is hasan authentic.
530-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told Abdullah b. He had sent Revaha as the commander of a detachment, and this was Friday. The soldiers set out early in the morning. Abdullah b. Rawaha, on the other hand, will stay behind and pray Friday together with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said, 'I will catch up with you. After the prayer, the Messenger of Allah saw him and why didn't you go out with your friends early in the morning? Said. Then he said: I wanted to pray with you and then catch up with you. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Even if you spend the earth full of money, you cannot gain the value and value of their early departure." (Musnad: 2203) This hadith is strange, we only know it as it is. Ali b. al Medînî, Yahya b. Narrated by Said from Shu'ba, he said: Al-Hakim only heard five hadiths from Miksem. Shu'ba counted those hadiths, it is not one of those hadiths. Therefore, it is understood that al-Hakim did not hear this hadith from Shu'ba. Scholars have expressed different views on this issue. Some say that it is possible to set out for war before the Friday time, while others say that if it is morning, it is not possible to leave before Friday.
531-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “It is the right of a Muslim to perform ghusl on Friday. It is also nice to come out of the house smelling, for those who cannot find a smell, it is sufficient to wash them with water only.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 212) A hadith was also narrated by a sheikh from Abu Said and Ansar.
532-) Ahmed b. Menî', from Hüseym, Yazîd b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abi Ziyad in the same document. The hadith of bara is hasan. the narration of Ismail b. It is better than the narration of Ibrahim et Taymi. b. It is said that Ibrahim et Taymi is weak in the hadith.
533-) Ali b. According to what was narrated from Abu Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “It is sunnah to walk to the Eid prayer and eat something before going out for prayer.” (Bukhari, Iydeyn: 7) This hadith is hasan. Many scholars act on this hadith and consider it mustahab to walk to Eid prayers and to eat something before Eid-al-Fitr. It is okay for a person with an excuse to go out with a thousand.
534-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abu Bakr and Umar would perform the Ramadan and Eid-al-Adha prayers before the sermon and then deliver the sermon.” (Bukhari, Iydeyn: 8; Nesai, Iydeyn: 14) hadiths were also reported from Jabir and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. Many scholars from the Companions of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods acted according to this hadith and said that the khutba is after the Eid prayers. The first sermon before the prayer, Marwan b. He is said to be the referee.
535-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I performed it with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) neither once, nor twice, without adhan or iqamah.” (Muvatta, Iydeyn: 1; Nesâî, Iydeyn: 7) Câbir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah and Ibn Abbas. Jabir b. The hadith of Samura is hasan authentic. Many scholars, among the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others, are of this opinion and say that there is no adhan or iqamah in Eid prayers and supererogatory prayers.
536-) Numân b. According to the narration from Bashir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite Surah A'la and Surah Gashiya on Fridays during Ramadan and Eid-al-Adha. Sometimes Friday and Eid would coincide with the same day, and he would still recite the same surahs.” (Nesâî, Iydeyn: 12) In this regard, Ebû Vakîd el Leysi, Semure b. Hadith was also narrated from Jundub and Ibn Abbas. Numân b. The hadith of Bashir is hasan authentic. es Sevrî and Misâr, İbrahim b. Muhammed b. They narrated it from al-Munteshir in this way, like the narration of Abu Avana. b. The narration of Uyeyna is controversial. One form of narration is as follows; Abraham b. Muhammed b. al-Munteshir from his father, Habib b. Salim and his father and Numan b. It came from Bashir. However, Habib b. The narration of Salim from his father is unknown. Habib b. Salim, Numân b. Bashir is a freed slave. b. He narrated many hadiths from Bashir. By Ibn Uyeyna, Ibrahim b. Muhammed b. A similar narration is reported from al-Munteshir: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to recite Surah Qaf and Surah Kamer during Ramadan and Eid-al-Adha. Shafii is of the same opinion.
537-) Ubeydullah b. Abdullah b. According to what is narrated from Utbe (radiyallahu anh): “Umar b. What did the hattâb recite to Abu Vakîd al-Leysi during Ramadan and Eid-al-Adha? he asked, and he said: He used to recite the suras of Qaf and al-Qamar.” (Nesai, Salat-ül Iydeyn: 12; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 243), the hadith is hasan authentic.
538-) Hennad, Sûfyan b. Uyeyne and Damre b. He quoted a similar hadith from Said (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) in the same deed. The name of Ebû Vakîd el Leysi, Hâris b. It is Avf.
539-) Kesir b. According to the narration from Abdillah's father and grandfather: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite five takbirs in the first rak'ah of Ramadan and Eid al-Adha prayers before reciting it in seven other rak'ahs." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 242; Muvatta, Iydeyn: 4) Aisha, Ibn Omar and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. This hadith narrated from Kathir's grandfather is hasan. This hadith is the best of the hadiths reported from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on this subject. grandfather's name; Amr b. Avf el Muzeni. Some scholars of the Companions and other periods acted according to this hadith. It is reported that Hurayra prayed in this way in Medina. This is the view of the people of Madinah. Malik b. Among them are Enes, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq. b. It is reported from Mas'ud that he said the following about takbirs in the Eid prayer. “The number of more takbirs in Eid prayers is nine; Before reciting in the first rak'ah, five takbirs are recited in the second rak'ah and four takbirs are recited together with the ruku' takbîr." There are similar narrations from many of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam).
540-) Adiy b. According to what is reported from Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Saîd b. I heard from Jubayr, narrating from Ibn Abbas, that he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went to the prayer hall and performed two rak'ahs of Eid prayer on Eid-al-Fitr, and he did not offer any prayers before or after the Eid prayer." (Muvatta, Iydeyn: 5; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 247) Abdullah b. Umar, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr and Abu Said. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and other scholars hold this view. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars are of the opinion that prayer can be performed before and after the Eid prayer. The view is more correct.
541-) It is narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh): “Ibn Omar went to the prayer hall on the day of Eid. He did not pray before or after the Eid prayer, and he reminded us that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did the same.” (Muvatta, Salatül Iydeyn: 5; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 247) the hadith is hasan authentic.
542-) According to what is reported from Umm Atiyya (radiy-Allâhu anha): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to take virgins, young girls, girls who had reached the age of veiling, and menstruating women to the Eid prayer. Menstruating women would stay away from the place of prayer and would only participate in the prayers of Muslims. One of the women said, "O Messenger of Allah, if there is no outer garment to cover her whole body," she said: "If she is going to participate, she should borrow it from a brother." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 238; Nesai, Iydeyn: 3)
543-) Ahmed b. Menî', Hüseym, Hisham b. Hassan narrated a similar hadith from Hafsa bint Sirin and Umm Atiyya (radiyallahu anhuma). A hadith has also been narrated from Ibn Abbas and Jabir on this subject. The hadith of Umm Atiyya is hasan authentic. Scholars acted on this hadith and allowed women to go to the Eid prayers, and some of them did not welcome them. Abdullah b. It is reported from the blessed man that he said: "I do not find it pleasant for women to go out for Eid prayers today, but if the woman insists on going out, she should let her go out in her daily dress without being decorated. If the woman does not agree to go out like this, her husband can prevent it.” It is also reported that (radiy-Allâhu anha) said: “If the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had seen the way women dress and adorn themselves today, he would have forbidden them to go to the mosque as the women of the Children of Israel were forbidden.” It is also reported from es Sevrî: “Today, he does not like women to go to Eid prayers.”
544-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “If the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went to the prayer station on one way on Eid days, he would come by another way.” (Bukhari, Iydeyn: 24) In this regard, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr and Abu Rafi. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan garib. Tumeyle and Yunus b. Muhammad reported this hadith Fuley b. İsmail, Said b. from al-Haris and Câbir b. They narrated from Abdullah. Scholars, following this hadith, considered it mustahab for the imam to come and go on the way to the prayer station while he was coming from a road. Shafi'i is of this opinion. The narration seems more authentic than this hadith.
545-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Burayda's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father, he said: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would not go to prayer without eating anything on the day of Eid al-Fitr, and he would not eat anything until he prayed on Eid-al-Adha.” (Bukhari, Iydeyn: 4; Muvatta, Iydeyn: 3) A hadith was also reported from Ali and Enes on this subject. Bureyde b. The hadith of Husayb al-Aslemî is a strange hadith. says: Sevap b. We do not know that Utba narrated any other hadith. scholars consider it mustahab to eat some dates before going to the Eid-al-Fitr prayer, and not to eat anything until after the Eid-al-Adha prayer.
546-) Enes b. It was narrated from Malik (radiyallahu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to eat a few dates before going to the prayer place on Eid-al-Fitr.” (Bukhari, Iydeyn: 4; Muvatta, Iydeyn: 3) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
547-) Abdullah b. According to what was reported from Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I went on a journey with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) Abu Bakr, Omar, and Uthman. They performed the noon and afternoon prayers in pairs, neither before the fard nor after the fard prayer. ” Abdullah b. Umar says: "There is no need to perform circumcision before and after the fard, if there was an extra prayer, I would complete the fard by four." (Muvatta, Kasr-us Salat: 2; Nesai, Taksirus Salat: 1) On this subject, Ömer, Ali, İbn Abbas, Enes, Imran b. Hadith was also narrated from Husayn and Aisha. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan garib. Thus, Yahya b. We know from the narration of Sulaym. b. Ismail says: This hadith is from Ubeydullah b. It was narrated from Umar, a man from the Suraka family, and Ibn Umar. Although it is reported from Ibn Umar through Atiyya al-Awfi that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed circumcision while traveling, it is authentically proven that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman shortened the prayers while traveling in the early days. Many scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others acted on this hadith. It is also narrated that Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) performed well during the journey. According to the narration from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and his companions. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq are of the same opinion, and Shafi'i adds the following: "A shortening of the journey is a license, even if it is complete, it is permissible."
547-) Abdullah b. According to what was reported from Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I went on a journey with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) Abu Bakr, Omar, and Uthman. They performed the noon and afternoon prayers in pairs, neither before the fard nor after the fard prayer. ” Abdullah b. Umar says: "There is no need to perform circumcision before and after the fard, if there was an extra prayer, I would complete the fard by four." (Muvatta, Kasr-us Salat: 2; Nesai, Taksirus Salat: 1) On this subject, Ömer, Ali, İbn Abbas, Enes, Imran b. Hadith was also narrated from Husayn and Aisha. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan garib. Thus, Yahya b. We know from the narration of Sulaym. b. Ismail says: This hadith is from Ubeydullah b. It was narrated from Umar, a man from the Suraka family, and Ibn Umar. Although it is reported from Ibn Omar through Atiyya al-Awfi that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed circumcision while traveling, it is authentically proven that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman shortened the prayers while traveling in the early days. Many scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others acted on this hadith. It is also narrated that Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) performed well during the journey. According to the narration from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and his companions. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq are of the same opinion, and Shafi'i adds the following: "A shortening of the journey is a license, even if it is complete, it is permissible."
547-) Abdullah b. According to what was reported from Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I went on a journey with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) Abu Bakr, Umar, and Uthman. They would perform the noon and afternoon prayers in pairs, neither before the fard nor after the fard prayer. ” Abdullah b. Umar says: "There is no need to perform circumcision before and after the fard, if there was an extra prayer, I would complete the fard by four." (Muvatta, Kasr-us Salat: 2; Nesai, Taksirus Salat: 1) On this subject, Ömer, Ali, İbn Abbas, Enes, Imran b. Hadith was also narrated from Husayn and Aisha. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan garib. Thus, Yahya b. We know from the narration of Sulaym. b. Ismail says: This hadith is from Ubeydullah b. It was narrated from Umar, a man from the Suraka family, and Ibn Umar. Although it is reported from Ibn Umar through Atiyya al-Awfi that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed circumcision while traveling, it is authentically proven that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman shortened the prayers while traveling in the early days. Many scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others acted on this hadith. It is also narrated that Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) performed well during the journey. According to the narration from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and his companions. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq are of the same opinion, and Shafi'i adds the following: "A shortening of the journey is a license, even if it is complete, it is permissible."
548-) According to the narration from Abu Nadre (radiyallahu anh), he said: Imran b. Husayn was asked about the journey prayer, and he said: “I made Hajj with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He always performed two rak'ahs during Hajj. I made Hajj with Abu Bakr and performed two rak'ahs. I made Hajj with Omar and performed two rak'ahs. In the six and seventh years of Uthman's caliphate, I made Hajj; He also performed two rak'ahs.” (Nesai, Taksirus Salat: 4) This hadith is hasan authentic.
548-) According to the narration from Abu Nadre (radiyallahu anh), he said: Imran b. Husayn was asked about the journey prayer, and he said: “I made Hajj with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He always performed two rak'ahs during Hajj. I made Hajj with Abu Bakr and performed two rak'ahs. I made Hajj with Omar and performed two rak'ahs. In the six and seventh years of Uthman's caliphate, I made Hajj; He also performed two rak'ahs.” (Nesai, Taksirus Salat: 4) This hadith is hasan authentic.
548-) According to the narration from Abu Nadre (radiyallahu anh), he said: Imran b. Husayn was asked about the journey prayer, and he said: “I made Hajj with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He always performed two rak'ahs during Hajj. I made Hajj with Abu Bakr and performed two rak'ahs. I made Hajj with Omar and performed two rak'ahs. In the six and seventh years of Uthman's caliphate, I made Hajj; He also performed two rak'ahs.” (Nesai, Taksirus Salat: 4) This hadith is hasan authentic.
549-) Malik b. It was heard that Anas said: "We prayed with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) as four rak'ahs at noon in Medina, and as two rak'ahs in the afternoon in Dhu'lhulaifa." (Nesai, Taksirus Salat: 4) This hadith is authentic.
549-) Malik b. It was heard that Anas said: "We prayed with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) as four rak'ahs at noon in Medina, and as two rak'ahs in the afternoon in Dhu'lhulaifa." (Nesai, Taksirus Salat: 4) This hadith is authentic.
549-) Malik b. It was heard that Anas said: "We prayed with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) as four rak'ahs at noon in Medina, and as two rak'ahs in the afternoon in Dhu'lhulaifa." (Nesai, Taksirus Salat: 4) This hadith is authentic.
550-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) set out from Medina to Mecca, and without fear of any enemy, he performed the prayers in two rak'ahs only when there was fear of the Lord of the Worlds.” (Nesai, Taksirus Salat: 4; Muvatta, Kasrus Salat: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic.
550-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) set out from Medina to Mecca, and without fear of any enemy, he performed the prayers in two rak'ahs only when there was fear of the Lord of the Worlds.” (Nesai, Taksirus Salat: 4; Muvatta, Kasrus Salat: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic.
550-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) set out from Medina to Mecca, and without fear of any enemy, he performed the prayers in two rak'ahs only when there was fear of the Lord of the Worlds.” (Nesai, Taksirus Salat: 4; Muvatta, Kasrus Salat: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic.
551-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) set out from Medina to Mecca and prayed two rak'ahs. Abu Ishaq al-Hadremi says: I said to Anas: "How many days did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stay in Mecca?"; “Ten days,” he said. (Nesâî, Taksiru's Salat: 4; Abu Dâvûd, Salat'üs Sefer: 10) Hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas and Jabir on this subject. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic. In a narration by Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), it is also narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) once said that if we stay for more than nineteen days, we will pray four rak'ahs, when nineteen days were left, he prayed two rak'ahs. (The next hadith) There is another narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh): “Whoever stays in a place for ten days, performs all prayers”. There is also a narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh): "Whoever stays in a place for fifteen days, performs the prayers". There is also the narration "If he stays for twelve days". Said b. Qatada and Ata al-Khorasani narrated a narration from Müseyyeb as "Four days make up for four days". Davud b. Abi Hind, on the other hand, presents a different narration. Scholars have expressed different views on this issue. Es Sevri and the people of Küfe limited the shortening of prayers to fifteen days. He says that whoever intends to stay for fifteen days will perform the prayer in full. Malik, Shafii and Ahmed; They say, "Even if he intends to stay for four days, he must perform the prayer in full." As for the hadith, he sees the hadith of Ibn Abbas as the strongest opinion and says: The men agreed that a person who does not intend to stay for how long can pray short prayers even if he stays for years.
552-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went on an expedition; He performed two rak'ahs for nineteen days." Ibn Abbas says: "If we stay in one place for nineteen days, we do it in twos, if it exceeds this period, we do it four." (Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 2) This hadith is garib hasan authentic.
553-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I was with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) eighteen times; When the sun shifted to the west, I never saw him abandon the two rak'ah sunnah he performed before noon." (Abu Dawud, Salat-us Sefer: 6) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar on this subject. Tirmidhi: The hadith of bara is garib. I asked Muhammad about this hadith, only Leys b. He knew from Sa'd's narration and did not know Abu Busre al-Gifari. He also regarded the hadith as hasan. from Ömer; “It is also narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not perform supererogatory prayers before and after the obligatory prayers on his journeys.” It is also narrated from Ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed voluntary prayers during his journey. After the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), scholars put forward different views on this issue; Some of the Companions are of the opinion that it is permissible to perform supererogatory prayers while traveling. Umar b. Hattab, Ali b. Abi Talib, Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. The group of scholars, on the other hand, are of the opinion that it should not be performed supererogatory neither before the fard nor after it. Explanation of not performing vain on the journey; to accept the license. But there is great reward for those who do. The majority of scholars are of this opinion and say that it can be rendered futile during the journey.
554-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I performed the noon prayer together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) as two rak'ahs and at the end of the two rak'ahs together." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan. Ibn Abi Layla narrated this hadith from Ibn Umar through Atiyya and Nafi'.
555-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I performed many prayers with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) during and outside of travel, and I performed four rak'ahs in the afternoon and two rak'ahs in the afternoon with him, except when traveling. . On the journey; I made the noon as two rak'ahs, then two rak'ahs of sunnah, and the afternoon as two rak'ahs obligatory, but in the end it didn't do anything. The evening prayer was always three rak'ahs during and outside the journey, there was no increase or decrease because that evening prayer is the witr of the day, I prayed two rak'ahs after it.” (Nesai, Taksirus Salat: 5) This hadith is hasan. I heard him and said: Ibn Abi Layla has not narrated a hadith that I like more. That is, I narrated only one hadith from him.
556-) Muâz b. According to the narration from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh): “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took a break during the Tabuk expedition and set off, if it was not noon, he would delay the noon until the afternoon and put them together. would do, then move. When he is going to move before the evening, he delays the evening prayer and makes it together with the night prayer; If he was going to move after the evening, he would put the night prayer forward and pray it together with the evening.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat-üs Sefer: 5; Muvatta, Kasr-us Salat: 1) Ali, İbn Ömer, Enes, Abdullah b. Amr, Aisha, Ibn Abbas, Usama b. Hadith was also narrated from Zayd and Jabir. The hadith of Usama is more authentic in this regard. Ali b. al Medini, Ahmed b. He also narrated this hadith from Hanbal and Qutayba.
557-) Ali al Medini (radiyallahu anh), Ahmed b. He narrated a similar hadith from Hanbal and Qutayba. The hadith is hasan garib. Only Qutayba narrated this hadith and we do not know anyone else who narrated this hadith from Lays. Leys'in Yazid b. The narration from Ebî Habib, Ebû-t Tufayl and Muâz is strange. Because the narration known by hadithists is the following narration by Abu'z Zubayr from Muadh through Abu-t Tufayl: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform the noon and afternoon prayers, evening and night prayers together during the Battle of Tabuk." This hadith by Qura b. Khalid, Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik and others narrated from Abu'z Zubayr al-Makki. Shafi'i acted on this hadith, and Ahmed and Ishaq say: "There is no harm in performing the two prayers together during the journey by placing one of the two prayers before the other, or delaying one and performing the two together at the time of the other."
558-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh): "When someone from his family was asked to help him, he had to walk fast, he delayed the evening prayer until the dawn disappeared and it got dark, then he stopped and prayed the two of them together (evening and night prayers) and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ) did this when he had to walk fast.” (Nesai, Mavakît: 14; Muvatta, Kasr-us Salat: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. The hadith narrated by Lays from Abi Habib is hasan sahih.
559-) Abbad b. According to the narration from Tamim's (radiy-Allâhu anh) uncle: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed for rain with his companions, and he led them two rak'ahs of prayer, recited them aloud, wore his clothes inside out and turned to the qibla, asking for rain.” (Nesai, İstiska: 6; Muvatta, İstiska: 2) A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas, Abu Huraira, Anas and Abillahm on this subject. Abdullah b. The hadith of Zayd is hasan authentic. people act according to this hadith. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Abbad b. Temîm's uncle Abdullah b. Zayd is Asim al-Mazini.
560-) According to the narration from Abillah (radiy-Allâhu anh): “He personally saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) praying for rain, with his hands raised not above the level of his head, in the region of Medina called Ahjaruzzeyt.” (Ebû Dâvûd, İstiska: 2) Qutayba narrated this hadith to us by saying, "From Âbilullah". We know only this one hadith as its narration from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). His freed slave, Umayr, narrated many hadiths from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and was someone who saw and talked to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam).
561-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Kinâne's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father, he said: Walid b. When Uqba was the governor of Medina, he sent me to Ibn Abbas, I came to ask him about the rain prayer of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and he said: He went to the prayer hall begging and begging; He did not deliver a sermon like yours, but he continued to pray, supplication and takbirs, and led a two-rak'ah prayer similar to the Eid prayer.” (Ebû Dâvûd, İstiska: 1; Buhârî, İstiska: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
562-) Again Mahmud b. Gaylân (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated a similar hadith through Vekî' and added "Mutehasşşian" in awe.” This hadith is hasan authentic. The view of Shafi'i is according to this hadith. Shafii says: The istiska (asking for rain) prayer is performed exactly like the Eid prayer, seven takbirs are recited in the first rak'ah, and five takbirs are made in the second rak'ah. Shafi'i provides evidence for what he said with the hadith of Ibn Abbas. Malik b. It is also reported from Anas: "Takbir is not taken in the istiska prayer, as in the Eid prayer." Hanife says: There is no prayer called the istiska prayer. Nor do I order the clothes to be turned inside out for such a prayer; but the Muslims pray when they want rain and they all return together. This view is against the Sunnah.
563-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the Kusuf prayer during solar and lunar eclipses, recited it, then ruku'a, then recited it again, and then recited it again. Then he made two prostrations. He performed the second rak'ah in the same way.” (Ebû Dâvûd, İstiska: 3; Nesâî, Küsûf: 1) Ali, Âişe, Abdullah b. Amr, Numân b. Beşîr, Muğîre b. Shu'be, Abu Mes'ud, Abu Bakr, Samura, Abu Musa al-Ashari, Ibn Mas'ud, Asma bint ebî Bekrinis Siddik, Ibn Omar, Kabisatel Hilali, Jabir b. Abdillah, Abdurrahman b. Samure, Ubey b. Hadith was also narrated from Ka'b. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. It is also narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the Kusuf prayer with four bows and four prostrations. Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion. Scholars have put forward different opinions about the things to be read in the Kusuf prayer. Some of them are of the opinion that if the Kusuf prayer is performed during the daytime, the reading should be silent. Some say that it is read openly, as in Friday and Eid prayers. Malik, Ahmed and Ishaq are in favor of reading it openly. Shafii says it cannot be read openly. Both narrations came from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as authentic. Again, authentically, there is a narration of four ruku' and four prostrations. In the same way, it was narrated as six ruku' and four prostrations. According to the people, it is permissible to lengthen or shorten this prayer according to the eclipses of the sun and moon. If the eclipse is prolonged, it is permissible to perform six ruku' and four sajdas, and it is permissible to prolong the reading by performing four ruku' and four prostrations. They are of the opinion to perform this prayer in congregation during solar and lunar eclipses.
564-) It was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “There was an eclipse at the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led his Companions in prayer. He prolonged his reading in prayer for a long time, then he performed ruku', did it for a long time in ruku', then he lifted his head from ruku' and started to read again, this time he took a little longer than the first time, then he went to ruku' again this time a little less than the first time, then he stretched his head from ruku' He got up and prostrated, and he did the same in the second rak'ah.” (Nesai, Kusuf: 7; Abu Dâvûd, İstiska: 5) This hadith is hasan authentic. Based on this hadith, Ahmed and Ishaq are of the opinion that the Kusuf prayer should consist of four bows and four prostrations. Shafii says: If it is performed during the daytime, he recites a surah like Fatiha and Surah Al-Baqara silently in the first rak'ah, then performs a bow as long as he reads it, raises his head from the bow and stands in the same way, reads a surah like Surah Fatiha and Ali-Imran again. He goes into a long ruku', prolongs the ruku as much as he reads, then raises his head and says "Semiallahülimen hamideh" and makes two prostrations and stays in the ruku as long as he does the prostrations. Then he gets up and recites a surah like the Fatiha and Nisa surahs, does a long bow like his reading, then stands up with takbir and reads a surah as long as the al-Maide Surah and goes to bow, and his bowing is as long as he recited. Then he stands up by saying "Semiallahülimen hamideh", goes to prostration, and ends the prayer with two prostrations, tashahhud sitting and salutation.
565-) Samura b. According to what is reported from Jundub (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led us the Kusuf prayer, we did not hear what he recited because he recited silently." (Nesai, Kûsuf: 17; Muvatta, Kusuf: 2) A hadith was also reported from Aisha on this subject. The hadith of Samura is hasan authentic. Some scholars are of this opinion, and Shafi'i is one of them.
566-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the Kusuf prayer and recited it aloud in this prayer." (Ebû Dâvûd, İstiska: 5; Nesai, Küsûf: 19) This hadith is hasan authentic. İshak el Fezâzî, Sûfyan b. He narrated a similar hadith from Husayn. Malik b. Enes, Ahmed and Ishaq act according to this hadith.
567-) According to what is reported from the father of Salim (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led the army in two groups, one group led one rak'ah of prayer, and the other group was facing the enemy. Then this group of people who prayed took the place of those who were fighting, and they came to their place for prayer, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) led them another rak'ah and then saluted, half of the army in congregation completed one more rak'ah, and the other group also completed one rak'ah. By completing the horse, they have finished their prayers.” (Nesâî, Salat-ül Havf: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Salat-üs Sefer: 12) This hadith is authentic, and it was written by Mûsâ b. A similar narration was also reported from Nafi' and Ibn Umar via Uqba. In this regard, Câbir, Huzeyfe, Zayd b. Sabit, Ibn Abbas, Zuraki whose name is “Zayd b. Samit” and hadiths were also narrated from Abu Bakr. Malik b. On the subject of Anas fear prayer, Sahl b. Abi Hasme's hadith, and Shafi'i agrees with it. He says: There are many narrations about the fear prayer, the only hadith I know as authentic is Sahl b. Abi Hasma's hadith. b. Ibrahim: He is of the same opinion and says: “Different hadiths were narrated from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) on this subject. says: Sahl b. We are not going to prefer the hadith of Abi Hasma to other narrations.
568-) Sahl b. Hasme (radiy-Allâhu anh) said about the fear prayer: “The person who will become the imam stands towards the qibla, some of the soldiers stand together with him to pray, and the others continue to stand against the enemy. After prostrating, they take their place, they come and the imam leads them one rak'ah. Therefore, this prayer becomes two rak'ahs for the imam and one rak'ah for the congregation. Then they complete their prayers by performing this second group of bows and two prostrations.” (Ibn Majah, Iqame: 151; Nesai, Salat-ül Havf: 1)
569-) Muhammed b. Bashar (radiyallahu anh) says: Yahya b. I asked Said al Kattan about this hadith, and he told me Shu'be, Abdurrahman b. Qasim from his father, Salih b. Havvat and Sehl b. from ebî Hasme, Yahya b. He narrated a similar hadith of Said al-Ansari and said: “Write this hadith in the margin of that hadith! At the moment, the hadith is not in my heart, but Yahya b. It is like the hadith of Said al-Ansari.” This hadith is hasan authentic. Yahya b. Said al-Ansari reported this hadith from Qasim b. He did not narrate from Muhammad as a merfu. Yahya b. Said al-Ansari's friends also narrated it as mawkuf. Shu'be reported the same hadith from Abdurrahman b. Kasim b. He narrated it as a merfu through Muhammad.
570-) Malik b. Enes, Yazid b. From Ruman, Salih b. He narrated a similar hadith by narrating from Hawvat and someone who performed the fear prayer with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). This hadith is hasan authentic. Malik, Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq are of the same opinion. The narration that (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) led one rak'ah to each of the two groups of the army, and therefore he also offered two rak'ahs, has been transmitted from many people. The name of Abu Ayyas ez-Zuraki; Zayd b. It is Sâmit.
571-) According to the narration from Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I made eleven prostrations together with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) as prostration for recitation; The prostration in Surah Nacm is one of them." (Ibn Majah, Substitution: 70)
572-) Umar b. According to the narration from Hayyan ed Dimyshki (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard from a messenger; He conveyed the same hadith of Abu'd Darda to us, with similar words, through Umm-ud Darda. This hadith is Sufyan b. Vekî'in, Abdullah b. It is more authentic than what he narrated from Wahb. In this respect; Ali, Ibn Abbas, Abu Huraira, Ibn Mas'ud, Zayd b. Sabit and Amr b. Hadith has also been narrated from As. The hadith of Abu'd Darda is strange. This hadith was narrated only by Said b. We know it from the narration of Ebi Hilal from Omar ed Dimiski.
573-) According to a narration from Mujahid (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We were with Ibn Umar and he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "Let your women go to the mosque at night." Thereupon, the son of Ibn Umar; By Allah, we will not allow it because they will use this as an opportunity and increase their traps, seditions and evils. Ibn Umar said: May Allah be good for you and do whatever he will do to you. I say that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said so, and you say, "We will not allow it". (Nesai, Mesacid: 15; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 52) In this regard, Abu Huraira, Abdullah b. Mas'ud's wife Zeynep and Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Khalid. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic.
574-) Tarik b. According to what is reported from Abdullah al-Muharibi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not spit on your right side while you are praying, and if you must spit on your right, if there is no one praying behind you, spit on your back or left side or under your left foot. ” (Nesâî, Mesacid: 31; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 22) If the masjids with sand and soil bases four centuries ago are taken into consideration, and if it is necessary, if it is not valid, the carpets in today's masjids, etc. There is no spitting on things.) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Abu Said, Ibn Omar, Anas and Abu Huraira. The hadith of Tariq is hasan. Scholars acted according to this hadith. I heard from Carud, he says: I heard Vekî say; Rib'î b. Hıraş is a reliable person and no lie has been heard about Islam. b. Mahdi says: Mansur b. Mu'temir is one of the most trusted people of Kufa.
575-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Spitting in mosques is a crime, and the expiation for this crime is to clean it and destroy it." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 22; Nesai, Mesacid: 30) This hadith is hasan authentic.
576-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "We made prostration together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the suras of Alak and Inshikaq." (Ibn Majah, Substitution: 70; Dârimî, Salat: 163)
577-) Sûfyan b. Uyeyna (radiyallahu anh) narrated a similar hadith from Abu Hurayra. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. people think that prostration will be done in the "Alak" and "Inshikak" suras. In the hadith, there are four people from the period of the Tabi'un who narrate from each other.
578-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited Surah Nacm, he prostrated. At that time, Muslims, polytheists, jinn and human beings all made prostration.” (Dârimî, Salat: 160; Nesai, İftitah: 49) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Mas'ud and Abu Hurayra on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Scholars are of the opinion that by acting on this hadith, prostration should be performed in Surah Nacm. Some are of the opinion that there is no prostration in such surahs called mufassal. Malik b. Enes is one of them. But the first view is more correct. Sevri, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are also of this opinion.
579-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I read Surah Nacm to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and he did not prostrate.” (Nesâî, İftitah: 50; Dârimî, Salat: 160) Zayd b. The fixed hadith is hasan sahih. His men commented on this hadith as follows: “The failure of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to prostrate is Zayd b. It is because Thabit did not prostrate while reading.” They say that making men prostrate is wâjib for everyone who hears, and they do not allow abandonment. Some scholars; They say, "If a hearing person does not make wudu, he prostrates himself." Sûfyan es Sevrî, the people of Küfe and İshâk are also of this opinion. Some scholars say: It is for those who want to prostrate for recitation and who want to know its value and earn its reward. They allow abandoning prostration and say they can do it if they wish, and Zayd b. They bring the hadith numbered (576) of Sabit as evidence and say: “If it was absolutely necessary to prostrate; The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) also prostrated himself. He would definitely make Sabit prostrate.” These scholars also show the following incident of Omar as evidence: “Umar recited the verse of prostration on the pulpit, descended from the pulpit and prostrated, then on a second Friday recited the same verse, people prepared for prostration, but Omar did not prostrate and said that it is not obligatory to prostrate, if we wish, we can do it. He did not prostrate himself, he did not prostrate in the congregation.” Some scholars acted according to this hadith. and Ahmed is one of them.
580-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the sura “Sad”, I saw him prostrating. Abbas: However, this prostration is not an important prostration. (Dârimî, Salat: 161; Nesai, İftitah: 48) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods are of the opinion that prostration should be performed in this surah. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some of them are of the opinion that there is no prostration by saying that the repentance and return of the Prophet David to Allah is explained here.
581-) Ukbe b. According to the narration from Amir (radiyallahu anh), he said: I said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "O Messenger of Allah, is it valuable because he makes two prostrations during the "Hajj"? They said yes, whoever will not prostrate should not recite these two prostration verses.” (Ibn Majah, Ikametus Salat: 71) The proof of the hadith is not very solid. Scholars have put forward different views on this issue. Umar and Ibn Umar said that this surah has gained value because there are two prostration verses in this surah. Ibn al-Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq are of the same opinion. Some scholars are of the opinion that there is only one prostration verse in this surah. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik and the people of Küfe are among them.
582-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), a man came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: I saw myself praying behind a tree in my dream. And at that moment, I heard the tree say: “O Allah, reward me for this prostration I have made, remove my sins from me, and keep the reward that will come from that prostration in your presence for the day when I will need it. Accept it from me as you accepted it from your servant David.” (Muslim, Masajid: 20) A hadith was also narrated from Abu Said on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib. As the narration of Ibn Abbas, we know it only in this way.
583-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to prostrate at night while prostrating for recitation: “My face and my soul prostrated to my Creator, to the one who gave my ears hearing and my eyes sight, ( bent down)” (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 70) This hadith is hasan authentic.
584-) Umar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever recites something that must be recited at night but falls asleep and cannot recite it between the morning prayer and the noon prayer, it will be rewarded as if he had recited it at night." (Kyyamul Leyl: 63; Dârimî, Salat: 167) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Safwan's name was Abdullah b. Said el Makki. He narrated hadiths from great hadith scholars and Humaydi.
585-) According to what is reported from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Doesn't he who raises his head before the imam fear that Allah will turn his head into that of a donkey?” (Bukhari, Adhan: 53; Muslim, Salat: 40) says: Hammad said: "Isn't he afraid?" in the hadith of Abu Hurayra. or “not afraid?” said as. This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Ziyâd is a reliable and reliable person from Basra. He is known for his Ebû'l Harîs tag.
586-) Jabir b. It is narrated from Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anh): “Muâz b. Cebel would perform the evening prayer with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and then return to his neighborhood and become their imam.” (Darimi, Salat: 98; Bukhari, Azan: 66) A hadith was also reported from Abu Said on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. Our friends Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq act according to this hadith and say the following; If a person becomes the imam of another congregation in the obligatory prayer he has performed, the prayer of those who follow him is permissible. They cite the hadith of Jabir and the event of Muad as evidence. This hadith is authentic and has been narrated from Jabir in different ways. It was narrated from Derda: They asked Abu'd Darda about the status of this prayer, which was performed by a person who entered the mosque while the congregation was in the afternoon prayer and followed the imam, thinking that the noon prayer was being performed. Others say: “If a congregation obeys an imam who is performing the afternoon prayer, assuming that he is performing the noon prayer, and they finish the prayer, their prayers will be invalid because the intentions of the imam and the congregation are different.
587-) Enes b. According to what was reported from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When we prayed behind the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), we used to prostrate on our clothes to avoid the heat due to the midday heat.” (Nesai, Iftitah: 149; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 92) the hadith is hasan authentic. In this regard, Jabir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah and Ibn Abbas. Wakî' reported this hadith from Khalid b. He narrated from Abdurrahman.
588-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to sit in the place where he prayed until the sun came up after performing the morning prayer." (Muslim, Masajid: 52; Nesai, Sahv: 77) the hadith hasan is sahih.
589-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever performs the morning prayer in congregation, then sits in the place where he prays and remembers Allah until the sun rises and then prays two rak'ats, one Hajj and Umrah. He will be rewarded as if he had done it.” Anas said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “a complete reward for Hajj and Umrah.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is hasan garib. Muhammed b. I asked Ismail, Abu Zilal, and he said: He is an intermediate person in the hadith. His name is Hailal.
590-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to look left and right from the corner of his eye during prayer, and he would not look back by turning his neck.” (Nesai, Sahv: 10) This hadith is strange. Vekî', Fadl b. He did not take kindly to this narration of Moses.
591-) It was narrated from some of Ikrima's (radiyallahu anh) friends: "The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to look out of the corner of his eye during prayer," and they quoted the hadith similar to the 597th hadith. A hadith has also been narrated from Anas and Aisha on this subject.
592-) It was narrated from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: “My child, do not turn your face to the right and left during the prayer because it is very dangerous to do this in prayer. ” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
593-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) about looking left and right in prayer, he said: This is a snatch and run, so Satan reduces the reward of that person's prayer.” (Nesai, Sahv: 11; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 162) This hadith is hasan garib.
594-) Ibn ebî Leyla and Muâz b. According to a narration from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), they said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If one of you comes to prayer in congregation and finds the imam in any situation, let him do exactly what the imam did.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. As such, we know only from this narration. Scholars, acting on this hadith, say: If a person who comes to the congregation finds the congregation in prostration, he will not be able to catch up with that rak'ah, even if he does not reach the bow. Abdullah b. Mubarak is also of the opinion that the imam should be followed while in prostration. Some scholars also say: Maybe Allah will forgive that person without raising his head from prostration.
595-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada and his father (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When the iqama is brought for prayer, do not stand up until you see me going to the mihrab.” (Muslim, Mesacid: 29; Nesai, Azan: 42) A hadith was also reported from Anas on this subject, but it was not so popular. The hadith of Abu Qatada is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods did not tolerate the congregation's waiting for the imam standing. Some also say: When the muezzin says "Kad kametissalati", you should stand up. Ibn Mubarak is one of them.
596-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I was praying, and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), Abu Bakr and Umar were also there. When I sat down, I started with the praise of Allah and then I said salawat on the Prophet and then I prayed for myself. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Ask, your request will be given to you, ask, your request will be given to you” (Musnad: 3480) on the subject of Fadale b. A hadith was also narrated from Ubayd. Abdullah b. The hadith of Mas'ud is hasan authentic. Ahmed b. Hanbal reported this hadith from Yahya b. He narrated briefly from Adam.
597-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered that mosques be built in places where the necessary congregation is located, and that the mosques be kept neat, clean and fragrant.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 16; Nesai, Mesajid: 34)
598-) Hisham b. Urwa narrated a similar hadith (594.) from his father. The hadith is more authentic than the previous hadith.
599-) Hisham b. Urwa transmitted a similar hadith from his father. accepts the word "Dûr" in the hadith as places where people live.
600-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Night and daytime supererogatory prayers are two rak'ahs in pairs.” (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 172) Shu'be's friends broke up with the narration of Ibn Omar's hadith, some merfu and some mawkuf. Again, a similar hadith was narrated from Abdullah al-Omari through Nafi'. The hadith "Night prayers are two rak'ahs" narrated by Ibn Umar, which is authentic. Trusted narrators Abdullah b. They conveyed this hadith from Omar to us and did not call it "day prayers". There is also a narration from Ibn Umar: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "He used to pray two rak'ahs at night and four rak'ahs during the day." Some of the scholars on the subject say, "Night and day prayers are in pairs". Shafii and Ahmed are among them. and: “Night prayers are in pairs.” Day prayers, on the other hand, say "four by four", like the first sunnahs of noon and afternoon. Sûfyan es Sevrî, İbn'ül Mubarak and İshâk are among them.
601-) Asim b. According to what is reported from Damre (radiyallahu anh), he said: We asked Ali (radiyallahu anh) about the daily prayers that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) performed, he said: "You cannot afford it." We too, if we can afford it! We said. He said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray two rak'ahs when the sun rose from the east and reached a level as in the afternoon. Again, he would pray four rak'ahs at a time that was symmetrical when the sun rose, as at noon. He would pray four rak'ahs before the noon fard, two after the afternoon's fard, and four rak'ahs before the afternoon's fard, separating these four rak'ahs with a greeting, in which he saluted the angels close to Allah, all the messengers and Prophets, and the believers and Muslims to them. He would have greeted those who followed.” (Ibn Majah, Substitution: 172)
602-) A similar hadith was narrated from Ali (radiyallahu anh). This hadith is hasan. b. Ibrahim says: This is the best narration about the nafilah prayers that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed during the day. Abdullah b. It is also reported that Mubarak considered this hadith weak. In our opinion, the weakness of this hadith -Allah knows better- This hadith is related to Asim b. It is because it is narrated from Ali through Damre only in this way. Asim b. Damre is known as reliable by some hadith scholars. al Medînî, Yahya b. Said el Kattan and Sûfyan say: Asım b. We know that the narration of Damre is superior to the narration of Haris.
603-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would not pray while wearing women’s clothes.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 133) This hadith is hasan authentic. There is also a narration stating that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave permission on this issue.
604-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: “I came while the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was praying at home, the door was closed. While I was praying, he walked and opened the door for me, then returned to the place where he was praying. (The door was on the qibla side.)” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 165) This hadith is hasan garib.
605-) According to what is reported from A'mash (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard from Abu Vail, he was saying: A man, Abdullah b. He asked Mas'ud the meaning and way of reading the word "Unbelief" in the 15th verse of the chapter of Muhammad in the Qur'an, but did you read and understand the entire Qur'an except for this word? he said. He said yes to anyone. Thereupon, Abdullah b. Mas'ud said: Some people read the Qur'an without understanding its meaning, without thinking, they read as if the palm kernels of poor quality are thrown and thrown away. I know of many similar surahs that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite one after another in prayer. Abdullah b. We had Mas'ud ask, there are twenty surahs called mufassal surahs. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite by combining both surahs of them in every rak'ah." (Nesai, İftitah: 79) This hadith is hasan authentic.
606-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person makes his wudu well and comes out just for the purpose of praying, if he takes action for it, Allah will raise his rank for every step he takes. raises him up and forgives a sin.” (Nesai, Mesacid: 14; Ibn Mâce, Mesajid: 14) This hadith is hasan authentic.
607-) Ka'b b. According to the narration from Ucre (radiy-Allâhu anh), from his father and grandfather, he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led the evening prayer in the mosque of the sons of Abduleshhel. Some of the congregation stood up to perform voluntary prayers, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Perform these prayers in your homes." (Nesai, Kıyamül Leyl: 1) Ka'b b. The hadith of Ucre is strange, we only know it in this way. The following hadith is narrated by Ibn Umar, which is authentic in this regard: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray two rak'ahs in his house after the evening prayer." There is also a narration from Huzayfa as follows: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the evening prayer in the mosque and continued to pray until the night time came. There is evidence in the hadith that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) prayed two rak'ahs to be performed after the evening in the mosque.
608-) Kays b. According to the narration from Asim (radiyallahu anh): "When Qays became a Muslim, the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) ordered him to wash with water and a soap called sidr." (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 129) This hadith is hasan. We know this hadith only in this way. people of the opinion that a new Muslim should make a ghusl and clean his clothes.
609-) Ali b. According to what was reported from Abu Talib (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The curtain between the eyes of the jinn and the places where the son of Adam should not be seen is the word "Bismillah" they recite while entering the toilet." (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 3; Bukhari, Deavat: 14) This hadith is strange. We know this hadith only in this way. There is another similar narration from (radiy-Allâhu anh) on this subject.
610-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Busr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "On the Day of Judgment, the prostration organs of my ummah will be white and shiny because of their ablution." (Nesai, Tahara; 110) This hadith is hasan sahih, and Abdullah b. The narration of Büşr is strange in this form.
611-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to comb his hair and beard during wudu and all kinds of cleaning works, he used to start from the right when dressing his feet.” (Nesai, Ghusl: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Ebûş Şa'sa was Sulaym b. Esved al Muharibi.
612-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Two ritls of water are sufficient for wudu." (Nesai, Tahara: 59) This hadith is strange, we know only with these words of Sharik. According to the narration of Shu'ba from Anas, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to make ablution with one makkuk and ghusl with five makkuk. According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to make ablution with one mud and ghusl with one sa'. This hadith is more authentic than Sharik's narration.
613-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about the urine of a suckling child: “The urine of a boy is sprinkled with water, and the urine of a girl is washed.” This is for the period when they do not start to eat and suck milk. When they start to eat, both should be washed.” (Bukhari, Voodoo: 64) the hadith is hasan sound. Hisham ed Destevai narrated this hadith as a merfu through Qatada and Said b. Abu Aruba narrates it as mawkuf.
614-) Shahr b. According to the narration from Hawsheb (radiyallahu anh), he said: Cerir b. I saw Abdillah, he made ablution and wiped over his meshes. When I asked him about this issue, he said, "I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and he made wudu and wiped over his lofts." Me too, before the revelation of Surah Maida? After? said. He said, "I became a Muslim after the end of the time of Maida. (Bukhari, Voodoo: 51) this hadith is from Khalid b. Ziyâd et Tirmidhi, Mukatib b. Hayyan, Şehr b. He narrated from Cerir through Havsheb. Bakiyya reported this hadith from Ibrahim b. Ethem, Mukatil b. Hayyan, Şehr b. He narrated from Havşeb and Cerir. This hadith has been the subject of tafsir. Those who deny the mesh on the mest commented on this hadith and tried to say that this hadith was abrogated by the verse of wudu by saying that this incident was before the revelation of the Prophet's (sall-Allāhu 'alaihi wa sallam) Sura. However, in this hadith, Jarir came to the satisfaction of other narrators by telling the date of his becoming a Muslim.
615-) Khalid b. A similar hadith has been reported from Ziyâd (radiy-Allâhu anh). This hadith is garib. Muqatil b. Hayyan, Şehr b. We know this as he narrated from Havseb.
616-) According to the narration from Ammar (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) allowed a junub person to eat and sleep if he performed wudu like prayer.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 87) This hadith is hasan authentic.
617-) Ka'b b. According to a narration from Ucre (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: “O Ka'b, I seek refuge in Allah for you from some statesmen who will come after me. Whoever enters their door, counts their lies as true, and helps their injustice, neither is he from me, nor I from him; That person cannot come to me in my pool on the Day of Judgment. Whoever does not confirm their lies, does not help their injustice, whether he enters through their door or not, he is from me and I am from him. This person will come to my pool on the Day of Judgment. O Ka'b, prayer is a proof of one's being Muslim, fasting is a strong shield, and giving alms wipes out mistakes just as water extinguishes fire. O Ka'b, only being in the fire is worthy of meat and bones produced by feeding on haram. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 1) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Only Ubeydullah b. We know from the narration that came through Moses. b. Âiz et Tâi is considered weak. It has also been said that he is not weak. I asked Muhammad about this hadith, only Ubeydullah b. He said that he was known through Moses and said that it is indeed strange.
618-) Ibn Nümeyr, Ubeydullah b. He narrated this hadith from Musa and Galib.
619-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recite a sermon during his Farewell Hajj, and he said: “Try to find your way with the Book of Allah and fight against Allah. be conscious of responsibility, be continuous and sensitive to your five daily prayers. Keep the Ramadan fast, give Zakat from your property, and obey your rulers. You will enter the Paradise of your Lord.” Sulaym b. Amir says: I said to Abu Umama, how old were you when you heard this hadith? He said: “I heard it when I was thirty.” (Musnad: 20140) This hadith is hasan authentic.
620-) According to what was narrated from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) while he was sitting in the shade of the Ka'ba. When they saw me coming, they said: "By the Lord of the Ka'ba, they will be the losers on the Day of Judgment." What happened to myself? Something about me landed? I said, but I still couldn't stop and may my parents be sacrificed for you, who are they? I said O Messenger of Allah. He said: "They are those who have a lot of wealth and worldly possessions, but those who give and distribute to the right and left are excluded from this. I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my soul, that if a person dies and leaves behind camels and cattle for which he did not give zakat, those camels and cattle will be brought to him in a fatter way than they were on the Day of Judgment, and they will trample him with their feet and hit him with their horns. These animals keep doing this until a judgment is made between people.” (Muslim, Zakat: 8; Ibn Majah: Zakat: 2) A similar hadith was reported from Abu Hurayra on the subject. Ali b. There is a narration from Abi Talib that "He who does not give zakat is cursed". Likewise, Kabîsa b. Hülb's father, Câbir b. Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Mas'ud. The hadith of Abu Dharr is hasan authentic. Abu Dharr's name was Jundub b. Seken, also called Ibn Judane. b. Munir; Abdullah b. From Musa, from Sûfyan es Sevrî, from Hakim b. Deylem and Zahhak b. He narrated from Muzahim as follows: "The rich people who have a lot of wealth and worldly possessions are those who own tens of thousands of money and property." Abdullah b. Münîr el Marvezî is a good person.
621-) According to Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If you give Zakat on your property, you will have fulfilled your duty.” (Ibn Majah, Zakat: 3) This hadith is hasan garib. The hadith was narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with different aspects, and once a man asked: O Messenger of Allah, is there any other duty that falls on me other than zakat? He asked, The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "You can give it as a nafilah."
622-) According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While sitting next to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), if a smart person came and asked a question, we would have said if we had learned some things. Again in such a situation, a man came and sat on his knees before the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said; “O Mohammed! The person you sent came to us and said that you were a Prophet sent by God.” The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Yes”. That person said: “Did God, who raised the sky, spread the earth and formed the mountains, sent you?” The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Yes”. Thereupon, that person said: “The person you sent to us; He said that five times a day and a night should be prayed.” The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Yes”. That person said: “Did Allah order this for the sake of the person who sent you?” The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Yes". Thereupon, that man said: "The officer you sent told us that it is obligatory to fast for one month a year"; The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “It is true”. This time, that man said: "Did Allah order you to do this for the sake of the person who sent you?" The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) replied, "Yes." Again, that man said, "The person you sent said that Zakat should be given from our property." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "It is true." When that man asked, "Did God command you to do this for the sake of the person who sent you?" The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said “Yes”. Again that man said: “The authorized person you sent to us; He said that those who can afford it should perform Hajj.” The Prophet (peace be upon him) said: “Yes”. When that man said, "Did Allah order this for the sake of the person who sent you?" The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Yes." Thereupon, that person said: "I will not leave any of these for the person who sent you to the truth, and I will not make any more." He quickly got up and left. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If this man is true and serious in what he says, he will enter Paradise.” (Bukhari, Science: 7; Muslim, Faith: 3) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. It was narrated in a different way from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) through Anas. Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail, he was saying: Some hadith scholars from this hadith; “They have deduced that it is permissible to read and present something to a scholar, as is to listen to it from him.” They cited as evidence that the person in this hadith presented some information to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) approved them.
623-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I have removed from you giving zakat to horses and slaves that are not intended for trade. But bring the Zakat of your silver and give it to me, give me one dirham for every forty dirhams, there is nothing to give in one hundred and ninety dirhams, when it reaches two hundred units, five units of Zakat must be given.” (Ibn Mace, Zakat: 4; Abu Dawud, Zakat; 2)
624-) According to the narration from Salim's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wrote a letter about zakat and died before he could deliver this letter, which he had tied to his sword, to the authorized persons. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) died, Abu Bakr applied that letter until his death. Umar also applied them during his caliphate. There were the following provisions in that letter: one sheep in ten camels, two sheep in ten camels, three sheep in fifteen camels, four sheep in twenty camels, two-year-old female camel from twenty-five to thirty-five camels. A female camel that has reached the age of three until the age of forty-five after thirty-five, a she-camel that has reached the age of four until the age of sixty after the age of forty-five, a female camel that has reached the age of five until the age of seventy-five, two female camels, each of which has turned three until the age of ninety, and one hundred years old, if over the age of ninety-five. Zakat is given to two she-camels that have reached the age of four until twenty, one female camel that has reached the age of four in every fifty camels, and one female camel that has completed the age of two in every forty camels. For every forty sheep, there is one sheep up to one hundred and twenty, when it exceeds one hundred and twenty, two sheep up to two hundred, when it exceeds two hundred, three sheep up to three hundred, when it exceeds three hundred, there is one sheep for every hundred sheep, and when it exceeds three hundred, there is no Zakat. Due to the fear that zakat will increase and decrease, the collective goods are not separated and the separate ones are not gathered together. Zakat taken from mixed flocks is shared equally. Very old, weak and defective animals are not taken as Zakat.” (Abu Dawud, Zakat: 5) Zakat officer; He says he should divide the sheep as one-third good, one-third good, one-third bad, and take Zakat from the middle, and does not mention cattle. In this regard, Abu Bakr, Behz b. Hadith was also narrated from Hakim's father and grandfather, Abu Dharr and Anas. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan. Mostly jurists act according to this hadith. Yunus b. Yazid and many others did not narrate this hadith from Zuhri and Salim in this way, and they did not narrate it. Only Sûfyan b. Husayn narrated as merfu.
625-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Zakat is required for every thirty cattle, male or female, two-year-old calf, and for every forty cattle, a three-year-old calf.” (Ibn Majah, Zakat: 12) Muâz b. A hadith was also narrated from Jabal. Abdusselam b. Harb narrated from Husaf in this way, and Abdussalam is a reliable and memory person. Sharik narrates this hadith from Husayf, Abu Ubayda, his father and Abdullah. Abdullah's son, Abu Ubayda, did not hear hadith from his father.
626-) Muâz b. Jabal (radiyallahu anh) said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent me as governor of Yemen, two years old male or female calf out of every thirty cattle; He ordered me to take as Zakat a female calf over the age of forty, and to take one dinar, or clothing equivalent to one dinar, from any sane person, from non-Muslims, as jizya tax.” (Nesai, Zakat: 5; Ibn Majah, Zakat: 12) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some narrators narrate this hadith from Sufyan, A'mash, Abu Vail and Masruk: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent Muadh to Yemen and ordered him to receive Zakat, which is more authentic. b. Beşşar (radiy-Allâhu anh), Muhammed b. Narrated by Shu'ba through Jafar, Amr b. He told us that Murra said: Do you remember anything from Abdullah to Abu Ubayda as a hadith? Said. He said: “No”.
627-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent Muâz to Yemen as a governor, he said to him: “You are going to a people called the People of the Book. invite them to testify that there is no god but that I am his messenger. If they follow this, inform them that Allah has ordered them to pray five times a day and a night. If they accept this, inform them that Zakat, which will be taken from the rich and given to the poor, is also obligatory. If they accept this, don't try to buy the best of their goods! Beware of the curses of the oppressed, because there is no curtain between Allah and the oppressed.” (Bukhari, Zakat: 40; Muslim, Zakat: 55) hadiths were also reported from Sunabihi. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Mabed, freed slave of Ibn Abbas, is Nafiz.
628-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If the camels are less than five, Zakat is not required. Zakat is not required of less than five ukyyas of silver. A tithe is not required for less than five vesaks of agricultural products.” (Bukhari, Zakat: 4; Muslim, Zakat: 2) Abu Hurayra, Ibn Omar, Jabir and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr.
629-) Muhammed b. Beşşar (radiy-Allâhu anh), Abdurrahman b. Mahdi, Sufyan, Shu'be, Malik b. Enes, Amr b. He narrated the same hadith from Yahya's father and Abu Said. The hadith of Abu Said is hasan authentic. This hadith has been narrated from Abu Said in many ways and scholars have acted upon this hadith. That is, there is no Zakat on agricultural products less than five vesak. Vesak: It is sixty sa. Five vesak is worth three hundred sa'. The sa'i of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) are five and one-third ritl. The sa'i of the people of Kufa is eight ritl. There is no Zakat on silver less than uqiya. Five uqiyas are forty dirhams. Five uqiyas are worth two hundred dirhams. If there are less than five, there is no Zakat. If the number of camels reaches twenty-five, a female camel that has reached the age of two is given as Zakat. For camels with less than 25 camels, one sheep for every five camels is given as Zakat.
630-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is no Zakat on a Muslim's horse or slave that is not for commercial purposes.” (Bukhari, Zakat: 47; Muslim, Zakat: 12) Ali and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Scholars act according to this hadith, so there is no Zakat on horses that are not kept for commercial purposes and that are released on pasture. Zakat is also not required for slaves kept for service. However, after one year has passed for horses and slaves kept for commercial purposes, Zakat must be given over their value.
631-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is one scale of Zakat in every ten scales in honey. (Tirmidhi narrated.) Abu Huraira, Abu Sayyare al Mutie and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. Not much has been authentically reported from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on this subject. The majority of scholars act on this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars are of the opinion that there is no Zakat in honey. One of the narrators of the hadith, Sadaka b. Abdullah is not a hafiz. There is a narration from Nafi which is opposite to this narration of Sadaka Abdullah.
632-) Muhammed b. Beşşar (radiy-Allâhu anh), from Abdulvehhab es Sekafi, from Ubeydullah b. According to the narration from Umar and Nafi, he said: Umar b. Abdulaziz asked me about the Zakat of honey, and I said: "We don't have honey so we can give Zakat" But Mughira b. Hakim says: “There is no Zakat in honey.” He said: "Everything requires an acceptable balance, so he wrote a letter to the people concerned that Zakat should also be given from honey. (Abu Dawud, Zakat: 13; Ibn Majah, Zakat: 20)
633-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever acquires a property, there is no Zakat for that property unless one year has passed since that property." (Ibn Majah, Zakat: 5) A hadith was also reported from Serra's daughter, Nebhan.
634-) Again, according to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "If a person acquires a property, Zakat is not given to that property until a year has passed since that property." (Ibn Majah, Zakat: 5; Abu Dâvûd, Zakat: 5) This hadith is Abdurrahman b. Zayd b. It is more authentic than the hadith of Eslam. This hadith; Eyyub, Ubeydullah b. Umar and many others narrated it as mawkuf through Nafi' and Ibn Umar. Abdurrahman b. Zayd b. Eslam is a weak person in hadith. Ahmed b. Hanbal, Ali b. al-Madinî and others said that this person was weak. He is a person who is very wrong about hadith. There is no zakat on a property until a year has passed". A hadith has been reported from many of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Malik b. Enes, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion. Scholars, on the other hand, said: “If a person has a property to which he has given zakat beforehand other than his newly acquired property, that person must give Zakat for this newly acquired property. There is no need to wait a year. However, a person who does not have the property to pay Zakat beforehand does not have to give Zakat after one year has passed on the wealth he has acquired, whenever he completes one year, he starts to give Zakat. Again, if a person acquires another property before the expiry of one year, in addition to a property that he has previously acquired, he must give his Zakat on these new goods together with his previous property that had to be given Zakat. Sûfyan as-Sevri and the people of Küfe hold this view.
635-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "There cannot be two qiblas in an area, and there is no jizya tax for a Muslim." (Abu Dawud, Haraç ve Imara: 34)
636-) Abu Kurayb (radiyallahu anh) narrated a similar hadith to us from Jarir and Qabus in the same deed. Said b. Zayd and Harb b. A hadith was also narrated from the grandfather of Ubeydullah es-Sakafi. The hadith of Ibn Abbas Qabus b. It has also been narrated from Abu Zabyan, his father, and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as mursal. The majority of scholars act on this hadith. When a Christian becomes a Muslim, the jizya tax is abolished. The saying of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) "There is no tithe on Muslims" means that the tax paid by non-Muslims and those who pay the "head tax" of jizya tax are not collected from Muslims. Because head tax is collected from non-Muslim Jews and Christians. There is no such "tie-tie" tax on Muslims.
637-) According to a narration from Abdullah's wife, Zaynab (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) spoke to us women as follows: “O women, give zakat on your jewelry. On the Day of Judgment, most of the people of Hell will be women.” (Bukhari, Zakat: 33; Nesai, Zakat: 18)
638-) Mahmud b. Gaylan (radiy-Allâhu anh) transmitted it from Shu'ba and A'mash via Abu Dawud, and Abu Vail conveyed a similar hadith to us. This narration is more authentic than the narration of Abu Muawiya. In the narration of Abu Mu'awiyah, "Amr b. Haris and Zayneb's brother's son. if it is; Zaynab's brother's son Amr b. He is from Haris. Again Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather, it is mentioned in the deed of the hadith “There is Zakat in jewelry”. Scholars have put forward different views on this issue; There is Zakat on the Companions and their jewelry, some of which are gold and silver. Sûfyan es Sevrî and Abdullah b. Mubarak is of this opinion. Ibn Umar, Aisha, Jabir b. Some scholars, including Abdillah and Enes, are of the opinion that there is no Zakat in jewelry. There are similar narrations from some fiqh scholars of the Tabin period. Malik b. Among them are Enes, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq.
639-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather: “Two women came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) with gold bracelets on their arms. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to them: "Do you give Zakat for these bracelets?" They said no. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do you like that Allah puts you on bracelets of fire? They said no. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said; So pay their Zakat.” (Abu Dâvûd, Zakat: 4; Nesâî, Zakat: 19) This hadith was published by Müsenna b. al Sabah, amr b. He narrated the same from Shuayb. Musenna b. It has been said that al-Sabah and Ibn Lehia are weak in hadith. Nothing has been authentically reported from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on this subject.
640-) It is narrated from Muâz (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he asked a question about the Zakat of vegetables, that is, legumes, in a letter, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is no need for Zakat for vegetables.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) The proof of this hadith is not very solid. No authentic hadith has been reported from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) on this subject. This hadith is Musa b. It was narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as a mursal through Talha. Scholars, acting on this hadith, are of the opinion that there is no Zakat on vegetables. Hasan is the son of Umara. It is considered weak next to the hadithists. Shu'ba and others considered him weak, and Ibn al-Mubarak did not accept his hadith and abandoned it.
641-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "There is one tenth of the crops grown in lands irrigated by rain and streams. On lands irrigated by animals or irrigation organizations (half of the tithe) there is Zakat of one-twentieth.” (Ibn Majah, Zakat: 17; Abu Dâvûd, Zakat: 12) In this regard, Enes b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik, Ibn Umar and Jabir. This hadith is Bukayr b. Abdullah b. Eşecc, Süleyman b. From Yesâr and Büsr b. It was narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as a mursal through Said, as if this hadith is more authentic. Ibn 'Umar's narration on this issue is sound and most of the jurists act according to this hadith.
642-) According to the narration from the father of Salim (radiy-Allâhu anh), he narrated from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “There is one tenth (tie) in the crops grown in the fields irrigated by rain and streams, and in the fruit of the trees that are fed underground by their roots. On the other hand, there is one-twentieth (half a tithe) Zakat in areas irrigated by animals and irrigation organizations.” (Bukhari, Zakat: 6; Abu Dawud, Zakat: 12) This hadith is hasan authentic.
643-) Amr b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Shuayb (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave a sermon to the people and said: "Attention, whoever is the guardian of an orphan who has property, should use that property in trade and not let that property be consumed by zakat." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith was only reported in this way, and there are rumors in its attribution. Because Musanna b. It is said that al-Sabbath is weak in hadith. Some people reported this hadith from Amr b. By Shuayb, Umar b. They narrated the same hadith by narrating from Khattab. People have differed opinions on this issue. Many of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) including Umar, Ali, Aisha and Ibn Umar are of the opinion that there is Zakat on the property of orphans. Some scholars are of the opinion that zakat is not required on the property of orphans, and Sûfyan es Sevrî and Abdullah b. Mubarak is one of them. b. Shuayb, Amr b. As's son Abdullah b. He is the son of Mohammed. Shuayb's grandfather Abdullah b. Heard a hadith from Amr. b. Said, Amr b. He talks about the hadith of Shuayb and says he is weak with us. Weakness aspect of his grandfather Abdullah b. Amr's narration of hadiths from his pages. However, the majority of hadith scholars Amr b. They take the hadith of Shuayb as evidence and accept him as sound. Ahmed, Ishaq and others are among them.
644-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The harm done by animals on their own is not compensated. The damage caused by the acquisition of the mines is not compensated. There is no compensation for the worker hired to dig a well, as a result of the collapse of the well or the fall of another person into a well drilled by one person. There is one-fifth Zakat on treasures and treasures extracted from the underground.” (Bukhari, Zakat: 67; Muslim, Hudud: 11) Enes b. Malik Abdullah b. Amr, Ubade b. Samit, Amr b. Hadith was also narrated from Avf el Muzeni and Jabir. This hadith is hasan authentic.
645-) Abdurrahman b. Mas'ud b. According to what I heard from Niyar (radiyallahu anh), he was saying: Sahl b. Abi Hasma came to a place where we were together and reported that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to us: "When you collect the Zakat of some crops and crops by estimating, take into account decay, deterioration or the owner's ability to distribute it to his neighbors and relatives. don't let someone down." (Ebû Dâvûd, Zakat: 15; Nesai, Zakat: 26) Aisha, Attab b. Hadith was also narrated from Asid and Ibn Abbas. The opinion of the majority of scientists on estimation; It is about the hadith of Abu Hasma. Ahmad and Ishaq are among those who act according to the hadith of Abu Hasme. The prediction is this: When the fruits such as dates and grapes that require Zakat are grown, the official of the Islamic state sends an official to predict the fruits, the estimator estimates how many raisins and dates will come out of the grapes and dates, counts, determines, records the amount of Zakat that will come out and records the amount of Zakat as a debt. leaves their owners alone with their fruits, they act as they wish. When the fruits are grown and dried, the necessary tithe is taken from them. Some scholars have thus interpreted the "prediction" issue in the hadith, Shafii, Malik, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
646-) Attab b. According to the narration from Esîd (radiy-Allâhu anh); “The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to send people who would guess the grapes and fruits they brought out for the owners of the vineyards and gardens.” It was narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said about the Zakat of grapes in this year: Just as the Zakat of the dates is taken as dried dates, the Zakat of the grapes is taken as raisins.” (Abu Dawud, Zakat: 14; Nesai, Zakat: 26) This hadith is hasan garib. Jurayj relates this hadith from Ibn Shihab, Urwa and Aisha. I asked Muhammad about this hadith. He said: The hadith of Ibn Jurayj is not a sound and famous hadith. Said b. el Müseyyib'in, Attab b. His narration from Asîd is more solid and authentic.
647-) Rafi' b. According to what was narrated from Hadic (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) say: "The status of a Zakat officer who does business with justice is like one who fights in the way of Allah until he returns home." (Ebû Dâvûd, Zakat: 6; Ibn Mâce, Zakat: 14) Rafi' b. The hadith hadith is hasan authentic. b. Iyaz is considered weak compared to hadith scholars. Muhammed b. The narration of Ishaq is more authentic.
648-) Enes b. According to what is reported from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Anyone who acts unjustly in giving and receiving zakat is like a person who hinders zakat.” (Abu Dawud, Zakat: 5; Ibn Majah, Zakat: 14) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar, Umm Salama and Abu Hurayra on this subject. The hadith of Anas is strange in this form. Ahmed b. Hanbal Sa'd b. He talked about Sinan. b. Hanbal Sa'd b. He talked about Sinan. b. Sa'd thus said: “Yezîd b. From Abu Habib, Sa'd b. Sinan and Enes b. He says, "From Malik". It is said: The proof of this hadith is Amr b. Haris, Ibn Lehia, Yazid b. Abu Habib is from Sinan and Enes. I heard him say: Indeed, Sinan b. It is Sa'd. Our Prophet said, "He who is excessive in giving and receiving zakat is like the one who hinders zakat." The meaning of his word is that the sin of the one who does not give zakat is like the sin of the one who does not give zakat.
649-) According to the narration from Jarir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When the zakat officer comes to you, let him leave you satisfied.” (Muslim, Zakat: 55; Nasai, Zakat: 14)
650-) Abu Ammar (radiy-Allâhu anh), Huseyn b. Hureys, Sûfyan b. He narrated the same hadith from Uyeyna and Dawud, Sha'bi and Jarir. Dawud's narration from Sha'bi is more authentic than Mucalid's narration. Some scholars noted that Mucalid was weak. Because he was wrong in many places.
651-) According to the narration from Abu Juhayfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The zakat officer of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) came to us and took zakat from our rich and distributed it to our poor. I was an orphan child and he gave me a young female camel with long legs.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith of Abu Juhayfa is hasan authentic.
652-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever asks for something from people when he is not in need, he will come on the Day of Judgment with nail marks and bruises on his face as a sign of begging. O Messenger of Allah, what is the measure of wealth? He was asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Fifty dirhams of silver or gold of that value." (Abu Dawud, Zakat: 24; Ibn Mâce, Zakat: 26) In this regard, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Ibn Mas'ud is hasan. Due to the narration of Shu'ba here, Hakîm b. He spoke about Jubayr.
653-) Sûfyan (radiy-Allâhu anh), Hakim b. He narrated this hadith through Jubayr. Thereupon, Shu'ba's friend Abdullah b. Uthman said to Sufyan: “I wish someone other than Hakim had narrated this hadith. Sufyan said to him: What's wrong with Hakim? Doesn't Shu'ba narrate hadith from him? He said yes too. Thereupon, Sufyan said: This hadith of Zubayd is from Muhammad b. Abdurrahman b. I heard him narrate from Yazid. The deeds of our friends are based on this hadith. Sevri Abdullah b. Blessed, Ahmed, and Ishaq are among them, and they say: "If a person has fifty dirhams, it is not lawful to receive Zakat." (Ebû Dâvûd, Zakat: 24; Ibn Mâce, Zakat: 26) Some scholars, Hakim b. They did not act according to the hadith of Jubayr, they kept the matter a little wider and said: If a person has fifty dirhams or more, he is considered needy and it is permissible to receive Zakat. Some of the scholars, fiqh scholars and Shafi'i are of the same opinion.
654-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is not permissible to receive Zakat for a rich and powerful person." (Ebû Dâvûd, Zakat: 24; Ibn Mâce; Zakat: 26) on the subject, Ebû Hüreyre, Hubşî b. Cünade, Kabîsa b. A hadith was also narrated from Muharik. Abdullah b. The hadith of Amr is hasan. Sa'd b. He narrated it from Ibrahim and quoted it as mawkuf. There are other hadiths stating that "it is not permissible for a rich and powerful person to receive Zakat". Some scholars say, "If a person is strong but in need and has nothing, then if he is given Zakat, this is valid for the person who gives it", while others understand that it is not necessary to beg from this hadith.
655-) Hubshi b. According to a narration from Cunada es Salulî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) during his farewell Hajj, in Arafat, while he was at the dedication, a Bedouin came to him and he came from one end of the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) rida. and asked the Prophet for it. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave his rida to that man, and he took it away. Since then, begging has been forbidden. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is not permissible to beg for a rich, powerful, strong person. However, it is permissible for those who are extremely poor or heavily indebted. Whoever begs from people to increase his wealth will have a nail scar on his face and a burning stone to eat from Hell, as a sign of begging on the Day of Judgment. Whoever wishes may reduce or increase these signs and food.” (Nesai, Zakat: 83; Abu Dâvûd, Zakat: 9)
656-) Mahmud b. Gaylân, Yahya b. Through Adam Abdurrahman b. He narrated a similar hadith from Solomon. This hadith is strange in this respect.
657-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: In the time of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), a man lost money because of the fruits he bought, and his debts increased. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Give charity to him. People helped him, but their help did not reach the amount to pay his debt. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Whatever you find, there is nothing that can be given to you except what has been found". (Abu Dâvûd, Zakat: 25; Ibn Majah, Zakat: 27) Hadiths were also reported from Aisha, Cuveyriye and Enes on this subject. The hadith of Abu Said is hasan authentic.
658-) Behz b. According to a narration from his father and grandfather, Hakim (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: “Is it charity when something is brought to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)? Or is it a gift? he asked. If they call it charity, he will not eat, if they call it a gift, he will eat it.” (Muslim, Zakat: 50; Abu Dâvûd, Zakat: 29) Salman, Ebû Hüreyre, Enes, Hasan b. Ali and Abu Amire said; Mearraf b. He is Vasil's grandfather. His name is Ruseyd b. He is Malik. Maymun b. Mihran, Ibn Abbas, Abdullah b. Amr, Abu Rafi' and Abdurrahman b. A hadith was also narrated from Alkame. The hadith is also written by Abdurrahman b. Alkame and Abdurrahman b. It was also narrated from Abi Akil. Behz b. The name of Hakim's grandfather Muaviye b. Hayde el Kuseyri. Behz b. The hadith of Hakim is hasan garib.
659-) It was narrated from Abu Rafi' (radiyallahu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent one of the Mahzum sons to collect Zakat. When this person said to Abu Rafi: Become a friend to me so that you will receive zakat; Abu Rafi' said it would not be possible without going to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and asked the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) about the situation. His slaves are regarded as members of their family, so it is not permissible to receive alms (Zakat) for us or for you.” (Abu Dawud, Zakat: 29; Muslim, Zakat: 50) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Rafi' is one of the slaves freed by our Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Her name is Eslem. Abu Rafi's son Ali b. Abi Talib's clerk, Ubeydullah b. Abu Rafi.
660-) Salman b. According to a narration from Amir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When you fast, break it with dates because it is a blessing. If you cannot find dates, break your fast with water, it is pure. Giving alms to a poor person has only the reward of charity, while giving charity to a relative has two rewards. The thawab of charity and the thawab of strengthening ties of kinship.” (Ibn Majah, Zakat: 24; Nesai, Zakat: 82) Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Zainab, the wife of Mas'ud, and from Jabir and Abu Huraira. Salman b. The hadith of Âmir is hasan. rebab; Süley's daughter is Ummur Raih. the hadith of Sufyan as-Sevri in the same way; Asım, Hafsa bint Sirin, Rebab, Selman b. He narrates from Amir. This hadith is from Asim, Hafsa b. From Sirin, Salman b. He narrated from Amir and did not mention “Rebab” in his deed. The narrations of Sufyan as-Sawri and Ibn Uyeyna are more authentic. In the same way, Ibn Awn said this hadith; Hisham b. Hassân, Hafsa bint Sirin, Rebab and Salman b. He narrated from Amir.
661-) Fatima b. According to the narration from Qays (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: I asked or was asked about Zakat to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He read verse 177 of the chapter of al-Baqara by saying: “Real virtue is not about attaining merit and goodness, turning your face to the east or the west. But to reach the real good and please Allah; Those who believe in Allah and the Last Day, angels, the book and the prophets; who spends his wealth, however precious for himself, on his relatives, orphans, the needy, travelers, help seekers, and freeing people from slavery; It is the behavior of the person who pays zakat, which is a purifying financial obligation, who is careful and continuous in his prayer. and true virtuous people who keep their word when they make a promise; They are those who are patient in times of disaster, difficulty and distress. These are the ones whose word and deed are one. Indeed, these are the ones who find their way through the Book of Allah.” (Ibn Majah, Zakat: 3; Abu Dawud, Zakat: 32)
662-) Again Fatima b. According to the narration from Qays (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are other rights that must be paid on property besides zakat.” (Ibn Majah, Zakat: 3; Abu Dâvûd, Zakat: 32) The proof of this hadith is not very solid. It has been noted that Abu Hamza, Maymun al-A'ver was weak in hadith. Beyan and İsmail b. Salim narrated this hadith from Sha'bi with the same words, which is more authentic.
663-) Said b. According to what Yasar (radiyallahu anh) heard from Abu Huraira, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever gives charity from his halal earnings - Allah will never accept anything other than charity given from halal goods - Allah accepts that sadaqah with his right hand, Even if it is worth a date, he will raise that charity as one of you raises a horse's calf or a weaned camel. The reward of that sadaqah worth a date will be greater than the mountain.” (Bukhari, Zakat: 6; Muslim, Zakat: 19) Adiyy b. Hatîm, Enes, Aisha, Abdullah b. Ebi Evfâ, Hârise b. Vehb, Abdurrahman b. Hadith was also narrated from Awf and Burayda. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
664-) Kasım b. According to what Muhammad (radiyallahu anh) heard from Abu Huraira, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Allah accepts charity, takes it with his right hand and raises it as your horse raises its calf, so that the reward of a bite-sized sadaqah is rewarded. even it becomes as big as Uhud mountain. The measure of this in Allah's book is as follows: “Do they not know that it is Allah who accepts the repentance of His servants? It is He who receives and accepts alms. And know well that He is the One Who accepts repentance and has mercy on His servants.” (9 Tawba: 104) “Allah deprives earnings with interest from blessings, but He enriches charity, which is unrequited aid, by multiplying it many times over. Allah does not like those who conceal the truth from Him and none of the sinners.” (2 Baccarat: 276) (Bukhari, Zakat: 6; Muslim, Zakat: 19) This hadith is hasan authentic. A similar hadith was narrated from Aisha. With these hadiths and similar narrations and determinations, many scholars say the following about the issue of Allah's descent to the world's sky every night: Shouldn't try." Malik, Sûfyan b. Uyeyne, Abdullah b. Mubarak says about this kind of hadith: "Accept such hadiths as "how" and believe them, this is the opinion of scholars of the Ahl as-Sunnah wal community. The madhhab rejects such narrations and says that this is a "simile". He mentions the terms Yed (Hand), Sem' (Ear) and Basar (Eye) in many parts of his book. Jahmiyya, on the other hand, interprets these verses against the interpretation of scholars and says: “Allah did not create Adam with his hand. The word “hand” here means power and strength.” b. Abraham says: "Tasbih" (simile) is done by saying: Hand like hand, hand like hand; Ear like ear, ear like ear. If it is called "Yed (El)", "Sem (Ear)", "Basar (Eye)", as he said, and its qualities and characteristics are not investigated and it is not said that it resembles an ear like an ear, it is not simile and resembles the following verse in the book of Allah: Nothing can be like Allah in any direction or form…” (42 Shura 11)
665-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked which fast is more valuable and valuable after the Ramadan fast. They said: "Fasting in the month of Shaban, which is held for the greatness of Ramadan." Then what charity is valuable and valuable? He tried. They said: "It is charity given in Ramadan." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Charity b. Moses is not very solid in the company of hadith scholars.
666-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Giving alms extinguishes the wrath of your Lord against those who disobey, and prevents bad death." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form.
667-) Umm Buceyd (radiy-Allâhu anha) is one of the women who pledged allegiance to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "What should I do if a poor person comes to my door and I cannot find anything to give him? Thereupon, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to that woman: "Even if you can't find anything to give her, even if it's a worthless and rare burnt sheep's nail, stick it in her hand." (Ebû Dâvûd, Zakat: 33; Nesai, Zakat: 80) Ali, Hüseyin b. Hadith was also narrated from Ali, Abu Huraira and Abu Umama. Tirmidhi: The hadith of Umm Bujayd is hasan authentic.
668-) Saffan b. According to the narration from Umayya (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was one of the people I hated the most, he gave me the booty on the day of Hunayn and he gave it to me, and he became the person I loved the most.” (Muslim, Zakat: 46; Nesai, Zakat: 79) Hasen b. Ali narrated this or a similar hadith to me. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Said on this subject. The hadith of Safwan is transmitted by Ma'mer and others Zuhri and Said b. Narrated by Musayyeb: “Saffan b. Umayya said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave it to me..." The narration seems more authentic and appropriate. In his deed, Said b. Because there is Musayyeb. People have different opinions on the matter. Some of them are of the opinion that people called Müallefei Kulub should not be given a share of Zakat, and they say: they had been. They say that it should not be given to people in this sense today. Sûfyan as-Sevri, the people of Küfe and others share this view. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Scholars also said: “There can be people in the same position today, it is permissible for the head of state to give something to warm their hearts to Islam. Shafi'i is also of this opinion.
669-) According to the narration from Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I was sitting next to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) when a woman came and said: “O Messenger of Allah, I gave my mother a concubine as charity. My mother is dead too, what should I do?” she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Your reward has been written for you, and the law of inheritance has turned that concubine back to you." The woman said: “O Messenger of Allah, my mother had a debt of fasting that she could not keep for a month, can I keep those fasts instead?” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Keep your fast instead of him." Woman: “My mother did not perform Hajj, can I do Hajj instead? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Yes, perform Hajj instead of him." (Muslim, Siamese: 27; Abu Dawud, Zakat: 31) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith is known only by this narration of Burayda. Abdullah b. Ata is a reliable person in the company of hadith scholars. The majority of scholars act on this hadith and say: If a person gives charity and that charity comes back to him as an inheritance, that sadaqah is lawful for him. Some scholars say: "Charity is something given to Allah, if it comes back to a person as an inheritance, he should take it and spend it on a similar place." Sûfyan es Sevrî and Züheyr reported this hadith from Abdullah b. They narrated from Ata.
670-) It was narrated from Omar (radiyallahu anh). Umar gave his horse to someone to fight in the way of Allah. Then when he saw that the horse was being sold, he wanted to buy it. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Bought your charity and do not come back to him again." (Bukhari, Zakat, 60) This hadith is hasan. The majority of scholars act according to this hadith.
671-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “A man, O Messenger of Allah, my mother died, will it benefit her if I give charity on her behalf? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied, "Yes." The man said: I have a date garden and I gave it to my mother in charity. (Nesai, Vesaya: 8; Muslim, Zakat: 15) This hadith is hasan. Scholars also act on this hadith and say: "Nothing but charity and prayer reaches the dead." Some of them also reported this hadith as Amr b. They narrated from Dinar, Ikrima, as mursal. The phrase "I have a Mahraf" in the past means that I have a date garden.
672-) According to the narration from Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiyallahu anh), he heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in his sermon during the Farewell Hajj, saying: "A woman should not spend anything from her husband's property without his permission." It was said: O Messenger of Allah, is it even food? not infect? They said: "It is one of the most valuable of our goods." (Abu Dawud, Zakat: 44) Sad b. Ebi Vakkas, Esma bint Ebi Bekir, Ebû Hüreyre, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr and Aisha. The hadith of Abu Umama is hasan.
673-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a woman gives charity from her husband's property, she will gain rewards for it. Her husband earns the same reward, and the person who preserves that property has the same reward. No one of them will lack the reward of the other. They earn rewards because one of them spends from his earnings and the other because he spends it.” (Bukhari, Zakat: 17; Muslim, Zakat: 25) This hadith is hasan.
674-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When a woman gives something with good intentions without scattering her husband's wealth, that woman is given as much reward as her man would be given for her good intentions. The same reward is written for the person who preserves that property.” (Bukhari, Zakat: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. Amr b. It is more authentic than the hadith reported by Murra from Abu Wail. Amr b. Murra does not mention "Masruk" in his narration.
675-) It was narrated from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh). When the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) was among us, we used to give the Fitr alms (Fitr) as one sa' of wheat, one sa' of barley, one sa' of dates and raisins, and one sa' of keş (poor cheese). We continued to give until Muaviye came to Medina. When Muaviye came to Medina, he made a speech, in his speech he took part in the following issue; He said, “I think that two muddens from Damascus wheat are equivalent to one sa' of dried dates.” People acted according to his opinion. Said said: "I continue to give in the same way as I gave before." (Bukhari, Fitr: 1; Muslim, Zakat: 4) The hadith is hasan sound. Some scholars act according to this hadith and are of the opinion that a sa' should be given from everything. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and from other periods are of the opinion that one sa' should be given from anything other than wheat, and that half a sa' of wheat would be sufficient. Sûfyan es Sevrî, İbn'ül Mubarak and the people of Küfe say "half a sa' of wheat is enough".
676-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) sent someone to proclaim on the streets of Mecca and said, "Beware, giving fitra is necessary for every Muslim, male, female, free, slave, small or big. Two mudds from wheat and one sa' from other foods should be given.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. b. Harun related this hadith from Ibn Jurayj: Abbas b. He quoted a part of the hadith saying from Minae and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). and Amr b. Harun also narrated this hadith to us.
677-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave the alms of Fitr (to give fitra) as one sa' of dates, one sa' of barley for men, women, free slaves, for everyone. made it obligatory.” Ibn Omar says: "Then people started to give half a sa' of wheat." (Bukhari, Fitr: 1; Muslim, Zakat: 4) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Said, Ibn Abbas, Haris b. Abdurrahman b. Zübab's grandfather, Sa'lebe b. Ebi Suayr and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr.
678-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made it obligatory for free, slave, male and female Muslims to give Fitra, which should be given in Ramadan, as one sa' of dates and one sa' of barley.” (Bukhari, Fitr: 1; Muslim, Zakat: 4) The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. Malik narrated this hadith from Nafi', Ibn Umar and the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) as Ayyub had narrated, and many people related this hadith from Nafi' but did not add the word "from Muslims". Scholars have expressed different views on this issue, and some of them say: "If a person has non-Muslim slaves, it is not necessary to give Fitr alms = Fitre for them". Malik, Shafii and Ahmad hold this view. part of it: “Even if they are not Muslims, he should give Fitra for them.” they say. Sevri, Ibn al-Mubarak and Ishaq are among them.
679-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered that Fitra be given before the Eid prayer on the day of Eid al-Fitr." (Bukhari, Fitr Charity: 7; Muslim, Zakat: 5) This hadith is hasan garib. According to this hadith, scholars welcomed the practice and said: “They considered it necessary to give Fitra before going to the Eid prayer.
680-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh): “Ibn Abbas asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to pay Zakat ahead of time, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave him permission in this regard.” (Abu Dawud, Zakat: 22; Ibn Majah, Zakat: 7)
681-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Umar: “We used to receive zakat from Abbas a year before and in that year.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith of paying zakat before its time is reported by Israel, Haccac b. We know that it was narrated from Dinar only from this aspect. Ismail b. Zekeriyya's narration from Haccac, I think Israel's, Haccac b. It is more authentic than the narration of Dinar. the same hadith, Hakim b. It was narrated from Utayba as mursal. Scholars have put forward different views about giving Zakat before its due time, and some of them are of the opinion that it should not be paid before its time. Sûfyan es Sevrî is of this opinion; “To me it is unpleasant to be paid ahead of time,” he says. The majority of the men said: “Zakat given before its time replaces zakat.” Shafii Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
682-) It was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh). He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say, "It is better for one of you to go to the forest in the morning to bring wood on his back, spend his money and get rid of neediness, than to ask from someone whether he gives it or not. Because the higher giving hand is better than the lower receiving hand. Start your spending with the people you make a living from.” (Abu Dawud, Zakat: 27; Muslim, Zakat: 35) On this subject, Hakim b. Hızâm, Ebû Said el Hudri, Zübeyr b. Avvam, Atiyye es Sa'dî, Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Mes'ud b. Amr, Ibn Abbas, Sevban, Ziyad b. Haris es Sudaî, Enes, Hubşî b. Cünade, Kabîsa b. Hadith was also narrated from Muharik, Samura and Ibn Umar. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan sahih. The strangeness of this hadith is due to the narration of Beyan from Qays.
683-) Samura b. According to a narration from Jundub (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Begging means scratching the face. A person scratches his face because he begs. But it is excluded if someone really needy wants something or something is asked from a government official.” (Abu Dawud, Zakat: 26; Muslim, Zakat: 35) This hadith is hasan authentic.
684-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When the first night of Ramadan comes, the devils and the evil jinn are put in chains, the gates of Hell are closed, and none of them are opened. As soon as the gates of Paradise are opened, none of them are closed, and a voice calls out: “O those who want good, come to worship and servitude, O those who wish for evil, give up their sins. There are people whom Allah protects from fire, and this is done every night during Ramadan.” (Muslim, Siyam: 1; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 2) Abdurrahman b. Hadith was also narrated from Awf, Ibn Mas'ud and Salman.
685-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever fasts during Ramadan with true faith and seeking his reward from Allah, and spends the night in prayer, his past sins will be forgiven. Whoever spends the night of power by believing and expecting his reward from Allah, his past sins will be forgiven.” (Bukhari, Tarawih: 1; Muslim, Siamese: 40) The hadith narrated by Abu Bakr, Ayyaş from Abu Huraira is strange. Abu Bakr b. We know only from Abu Bakr's own narration that Ayyash is a narration from Amesh, Abu Salih, and Abu Hurayra.
686-) Muhammed b. I asked Ismail about this hadith and he said: Hasen b. Rabi transmitted the hadith from A'mash via Abu'l Ahvas and informed us that Mujahid said: "When the first night of Ramadan comes..." says: I think this hadith is from Abu Bakr b. It is more authentic than the narration of Ayyaş.
687-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not fast for the month of Ramadan a day or two before. It can only be done if the fasting for one or two days coincides with the fast that you are keeping constantly. Fast by seeing the moon and feast by seeing it. If it is cloudy, count Ramadan to thirty and then feast.” (Muslim, Siamese: 3; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 5) A hadith was also reported from the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Scholars act on this hadith and say that they do not like to welcome Ramadan a few days in advance, starting by looking at the moon and not looking at the moon, as it would be distrustful to its ruling, and if they come across a fasting that one is used to, it is okay.
688-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not meet the month of Ramadan with fasting a day or two before. However, if the person's habit of fasting coincides with that day, let him keep it." (Muslim: Siamese: 3; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 5) This hadith is hasan sahih.
689-) Sıla b. According to the narration from Zufar (radiyallahu anh), he said: Ammar b. We were with Yasir, a roasted sheep was brought and he said eat it. Some people from the congregation; They stepped aside saying, "I am fasting," and Ammar said: "Whoever fasts the day before Ramadan, called Shek, has rebelled against Abul Qasim." (Muslim, Siamese: 37; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 3) hadiths were also reported from Abu Hurayra and Anas. The hadith of Ammar is hasan authentic. Most of the Companions and the scholars of the Tabi'in period act on this hadith. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik b. Enes, Abdullah b. Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq are among them and they do not tolerate fasting on the "shek" day, and if the majority fasts on the shek day, if it turns out that that day is from Ramadan, they must fast for one day instead of the day they did not fast.
690-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Count the Shaban crescent, which is the previous month, in order to know the beginning of the month of Ramadan." (Tirmidhi narrated.) We know this hadith in this form only from Muawiya's narration. The authentic Muhammad b. It is the hadith "Do not fast one or two days before the month of Ramadan", which is narrated from Amr, Abu Salama and Abu Huraira. Likewise, Yahya b. Ebî Kathir, Ebû Salama, and Ebû Hüreyre from Muhammed b. A similar hadith has been narrated by Amr al-Leysi.
691-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not start fasting a few days before Ramadan, start fasting by observing the crescent, and celebrate Eid by seeing the crescent. If the cloud prevents you from seeing the crescent, complete your fast to thirty.” (Muslim, Siamese: 2; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 7) hadiths were also narrated from Abu Huraira, Abu Bakr and Ibn Omar. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan and has been narrated in different ways.
692-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: "It was more than the thirty days that we fasted in Ramadan with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) for twenty-nine days." (Muslim, Siamese: 4; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 8) In this regard; Ömer, Abu Huraira, Aisha, Sa'd b. There are also narrations from Ebi Vakkas, Ibn Abbas, Ibn Omar, Anas, Jabir, Umm Salama and Abu Bakra that "a month is twenty-nine days".
693-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took an oath not to approach his wives for a month, waited in a separate room for twenty-nine days, and then got out. Didn't you swear to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) that it would be one month? It was asked; They said that a month is twenty-nine days.” (Muslim, Siamese: 4; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 8)
694-) According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), a Bedouin came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “I have seen the crescent.” Do you then accept that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) has no god but Allah and that Muhammad (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) is the messenger of Allah? The Bedouin said, "Yes." In the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); He commanded Bilal: "Inform the Muslims to fast tomorrow." (Abu Dawud, Savm: 14; Nesai, Siamese: 8)
695-) A similar hadith was narrated from Abu Kureyb, Huseyn al Cu'fi, Zaide and Simak. There are changes in the narration of the hadith of Ibn Abbas. Sufyan es Sevrî and others narrate it as a mursal, saying that it was quoted from Simak and İkrime. Because most of Simak's friends narrate from Simak and Ikrime as mursal. Ibn Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmad and the people of Kufa are of the same opinion. Ishaq says: "One can fast only with the testimony of two people." There is no dispute about the witnessing of two people in breaking the fast.
696-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The months of Ramadan and Dhul-Hijjah cannot be less than thirty days.” (Bukhari, Savm: 12; Muslim, Siyam: 7) The hadith of Abu Bakr is hasan. This hadith is Abdurrahman b. It was also narrated from Abu Bakr as mursal. says: The meaning of the hadith "Two months of Eid will not be reduced" means this. If the months of Ramadan and Dhul-Hijjah are both missing in a year, if one is missing, the other will be complete. he says: "Does not decrease" means: Even if he takes twenty-nine, he is not lacking in rewards and is complete. In Isaac's view, these two months may be less than thirty days in a year.
697-) According to the narration from Kurayb (radiyallahu anh), Muawiya had sent Umm al-Fadl bint Harise to Damascus. He says: I came to Damascus and fulfilled Umm al-Fadl's request. While I was in Damascus, the Ramadan crescent was seen. We saw the crescent on Friday night, I came to Medina at the end of the month, Ibn Abbas asked some questions and said when did you see the crescent. I said we saw it on Friday night. He said, 'Did you see it on Friday night? I said that the people of Damascus saw and fasted, and Muawiya also fasted. He said, "We saw it on Saturday night." Thus, we will fast until we complete the thirty days or until we see the crescent. Said. Then don't you think it's enough for Muawiya to fast and see the crescent moon? I said, he said no. This is how the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us. (Muslim, Siamese: 5; Abu Dawud, Savm: 9) The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan sahih. Scholars act according to this hadith and say, "It is of interest for the people of every region to see the crescent."
698-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever can find dates should break his fast with dates, and whoever cannot find dates, let him break his fast with water. Because the water is clean.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Siamese: 21; İbn Mâce, Siyam: 25) In this regard, Salman b. A hadith was also narrated from Amir. The hadith of Anas; Said b. We do not know that anyone other than Amir narrated from Shu'ba in this way. This story is not very solid. Abdulaziz b. We do not have any document regarding Suheyb's narration from Enes. his friends this hadith; Shu'be, Asim al Ahvel, Hafsa bint Sirin, Rebab, Salman b. It is narrated by Amir that this narration is from Said b. It is more authentic than Amir's narration. Likewise, it was narrated from Shu'ba, Asim, Hafsa bint Sirin, Salman (Shu'be did not say from Rebab). The narration is: Sufyan es-Tevri from Ibn Uyeyna and others, Asim al-Ahvel, Hafsa bint Sirin, Rebab and Salman b. It is the narration of Amir. Avn says: Ummur Raih bint Suley', Salman b. He says from Amir, “er Rebab” is Ummur Raih himself.
699-) Salman b. As reported by Amir ed Dabbi (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When one of you breaks his fast, he should break it with dates." Ibn Uyayna added: “Because those dates are fruitful. Those who cannot find dates should break their fast with water, because the water is clean.” (Abu Dawud, Siamese: 21; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 25) This hadith is hasan garib.
700-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to fast with a few fresh dates before the prayer, and if he could not find fresh dates, he would have dried dates and if he could not find them, he would have fasted with a few sips of water. ” (Abu Dawud, Savm: 21; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 25) This hadith is hasan garib. There are narrations that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) broke his fast with dates on winter days and with water on summer days.
701-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Ramadan: The day you start fasting; Eid: The day you finish the fast; Eid-al-Adha is also: the day you sacrifice.” (Abu Dawud, Siamese: 5) This hadith is hasan garib. Some scholars commented on this hadith and said: Fasting and Eid should be done with the majority of the people.
702-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "You break your fast when the night comes and the day goes away and the sun disappears." (Muslim, Siyam: 10) A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abi Awfa and Abu Said. The hadith of Omar is hasan authentic.
703-) Sahl b. According to a narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Muslims are always with good deeds as long as they hurry to break the fast when the time comes." (Muslim, Siyam: 9; Ibn Majah, Siyam: 24) Abu Hurayra, Ibn Abbas, Aisha and Enes b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik. Sahl b. Sa'd's hadith is hasan authentic. The companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later scholars consider it mustahab to act upon this hadith and hasten to break the fast. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
704-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Allah said: “The most beloved of my servants to me are those who hasten to break their fast.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
705-) Abdullah b. Abdurrahman (radiyallahu anh) narrated a similar hadith by narrating it from Abu Asim, Abul Muğîre and Evzâî. This hadith is hasan garib.
706-) According to the narration from Abu Atiyya (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I and Masruk went to Aisha and said: “O mother of the believers, two men from the companions of Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) We said that one of them both rushes the performance and makes haste the prayers, and the other delays both the iftar and the prayers. Aisha; He asked which of them is in a hurry in prayer and iftar. We, Abdullah b. He is Mas'ud. We gave the answer. Aisha (radiyallahu anha) said; He said, "This is what the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to do." The other person is Abu Musa. (Muslim, Siamese: 9; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 24) This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Atiyye is Malik b. Abu Amir al-Handani. His Malik b. It is also said that he is Amir al-Handani. This second narration is more authentic.
707-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiyallahu anh), he said: "We ate the suhoor meal together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and we got up to perform the morning prayer. Anas says: I said, how long is the time between the sahur and the morning prayer. Zayd said, "It is about fifty verses." (Muslim, Siamese: 9; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 23)
708-) Hennad Vaki' and Hisham narrated a similar hadith and said, "Enough to recite fifty verses". A hadith was also narrated from Hudhayfa on this subject. Zayd b. The fixed hadith is hasan sound. Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq follow this hadith and say that it is necessary to delay the sahur.
709-) Talk b. According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Eat and drink; Eat and drink until the redness covers the place, that is, until the real dawn comes out.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Siamese: 17; Muslim, Siamese: 8) Adiyy b. Hadith was also narrated from Hatim, Abu Dharr, and Samura. talk b. The hadith of Ali is hasan garib in this form. Scholars act upon this hadith. It is free to eat and drink until the red, called Fajr (True Fajr), covers the whole place. All scholars have acted in this way.
710-) Samura b. According to a narration from Jundub (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Let neither the adhan recited by Bilal nor the false fajr rising upwards prevent you from eating suhoor. However, the fact that the area called fecr is covered with red may prevent you from eating and drinking.” (Muslim, Siamese: 8; Abu Dâvûd, Savm: 17) This hadith is hasan.
711-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person does not stop telling lies and dealing with lies, Allah does not need him to abandon his food and drink.” (Muslim, Siamese: 29; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 21) hadiths were also reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh). This hadith is hasan authentic.
712-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Eat suhoor, there is blessing in it.” (Muslim, Siyam: 9; Abu Dâvûd, Siamese: 15) Abu Hurayra, Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Câbir b. Abdillah, Ibn Abbas, Amr b. As, Irbad b. Sariye, Utbe b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdillah and Abu'd Darda. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic. A hadith has been reported from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) as follows: “The difference between our fasting and the fasting of people called people of the book is eating sahur.”
713-) Likewise, Kutayba (radiyallahu anh), Leys, Musa b. Ali from his father, Amr b. As's freed slave and Amr b. Another hadith has been reported from As.
714-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdillah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) set out for Mecca in the year of the Conquest. He and his companions were both fasting until they reached the place called Kura-ul Gamîm. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked for a glass of water after the afternoon and drank it in front of people. Some of those who saw this broke their fast, and some continued their fast. When he received the news that some of his companions were continuing their fast, they did not obey, they rebelled. (Muslim, Siamese: 15) Ka'b b. Hadith was also narrated from Asim, Ibn Abbas and Abu Huraira. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound. A hadith has been reported from (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) saying, "Fasting on a journey does not mean being a good Muslim". Some scholars from the Companions of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others are in favor of fasting while traveling, and some of them even think that fasting while traveling should be made up. Ahmed and Ishaq preferred not to fast during the journey. Ahmed and Ishaq preferred not to fast during the journey. Some of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and some other scholars said, "If he fasts enough, it is good and he has done a valuable job." Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik b. Enes, Abdullah b. Mubarak is one of them. Shafi'i says: The meaning of the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) statement, "Fasting on a journey does not mean being a good Muslim", and the word "when the news of some people's fasting comes, they are rebels" means: This permission given by Allah is for those who cannot take the heart. If a person considers fasting permissible while traveling, but fasts because he can bear it, I like it.
715-) According to what is reported from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Hamza b. Amr al-Aslemi asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) about fasting while traveling, and he asked about fasting a lot, and he was a person who fasted a lot. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Hold if you want, do not hold if you want". (Bukhari, Savm: 33; Muslim, Siyam: 17) In this regard, Enes b. Malik, Ebû Said, Abdullah b. Amr, Abu'd Derda, Hamza b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr al-Aslemi. Aisha (radiyallahu anha): “Hamza b. Amr asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)…” The hadith that begins with hasan is authentic.
716-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri' (radiyallahu anh), he said: "We went on a journey with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): "It would not be blamed for a fasting person to fast and not to fast." (Muslim, Siamese: 15; Bukhari, Savm: 33) This hadith is hasan authentic.
717-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: "We went on a journey together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), some of us fasted, some of us did not, neither blamed those who did not fast, nor did those who did not condemn those who did not. They welcome those who find strength in themselves and fast. They would also welcome those who could not stand the fast and eat it.” (Muslim, Siamese: 15; Bukhari, Savm: 33) This hadith is hasan authentic.
718-) According to what is reported from Ibn Musayyeb (radiy-Allâhu anh), he was asked about the ruling of fasting in war; Umar b. He reported that Khattab said: "We participated in two battles with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in Ramadan, and we did not fast in both of the BEDR and the CONQUEST OF MECCA." (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also narrated from Abu Said. We know the hadith of Umar (radiyallahu anh) only in this way. According to what Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered to fast during a war. b. A similar hadith was narrated from Khattab, where the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) allowed fasting when he met the enemy. Some scholars say the same.
719-) (One of the Five Enes) Abdullah b. One of the sons of Ka'b, Anas b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The horsemen of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) raided our tribe. I came to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and he was eating. I said I am fasting. Thereupon, he said, "Let me tell you about fasting," and said: "Allah has removed the fasting and half of the prayer from the traveler. He also abolished fasting from pregnant and lactating women. By Allah, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said two or one of these two women (lactating or pregnant). Anas continued as follows: At that time, I felt sorry for myself because I did not eat the food of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Abu Dawud, Savm: 43; Nesai, Siamese: 62) A hadith was also reported from Abu Umayya on this subject. Enes b. The hadith of Malik is hasan. This is Enes b. We do not know that Malik narrated another hadith from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) other than this one. Some of the scholars do their practices with this hadith. Some scholars are; “Pregnant and lactating women do not fast, then they make up or give ransom.” Sufyan, Malik, Shafii and Ahmad are of this opinion. Some scholars also say: “Pregnant and breastfeeding women do not fast, they give fidyah. No accident needed. If they wish, they can make up for it, but this time they do not have to pay a ransom." Isaac is of this opinion.
720-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: A woman came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said, "My sister died while she was in debt for two consecutive months." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "What do you think, if your brother had a debt, would you pay it?" When the woman said “yes”; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The debt to Allah is more worthy of being paid." (Muslim, Siyam: 27) On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Burayda, Ibn Omar and Aisha.
721-) Abu Kurayb (radiyallahu anh) narrated a similar hadith from Abu Khalid al Ahmer and A'mesh. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. I heard from Muhammad and he was saying: "Abu Khalid al-Ahmer narrated this hadith with the best deed from A'mash." He says: Others from Abu Khalid also narrated from A'mesh like Abu Khalid's narration. Abu Mu'awiya and many others related this hadith from A'mesh, Muslim al Batîn, Said b. They narrated from Jubayr and Ibn Abbas and in their narrations; Salama b. As they did not say Küheyl, they did not say Ata and Mujahid. Abu Khalid's name; Suleiman b. It is Habban.
722-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever dies and owes a month's fast on him, those behind him should feed a poor person instead of each fasting." (As narrated by Tirmidhi.) We know the hadith of Ibn Umar as merfu only in this form. The authentic narration from Ibn Umar is the mawkuf version. Scholars have put forward different views on this subject, and some of them say: Someone else can fast instead of the deceased person's debts. If the deceased person's debt is Ramadan fasting, fidyah is given in his place. Sufyan and Shafi'i say: "No one can fast for anyone else." He is the son of Sevvar, and Muhammad is Ibn Abdurrahman Ibn Abi Layla in my opinion.
723-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Three things do not break the fast of a fasting person; Getting blood drawn, throwing up involuntarily and having a fever.” (Ibn Majah, Siyam: 16; Abu Dâvûd, Siamese: 32) The hadith of Abu Said is not very famous. b. Zayd b. Eslem, Abdulaziz b. Muhammad and many others reported this hadith as Zayd b. They narrated from Eslem as mursal and did not say "From Abu Said". Abdurrahman b. Zayd b. It has been said that Eslem is weak in hadith. I heard from Abu Dâvûd es Sicezî: Ahmed b. Hanbel'e, Abdurrahman b. Zayd b. I asked Eslem. He said: His brother Abdullah b. Zayd is harmless. I heard from Muhammad Ali b. He told us that Abdullah al-Madinî said: “Abdullah b. Zayd b. Eslem is a trusted person. Abdurrahman b. Zayd b. Essence is weak.” Muhammad said: "I do not narrate anything from him."
724-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever vomits out of his control, it is not necessary for him to make up for it, but if he vomits deliberately, let him make up for it.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Siamese: 33; İbn Mâce, Siamese: 15) In this regard, Ebû'd Derda, Sevban, Fedale b. A hadith was also narrated from Ubayd. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan garib. This hadith is related to Hisham b. Sirin's narration from Abu Huraira only Isa b. We know from the narration of Yunus. says: This hadith has been narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways and its narration is not very sound. Ebû'd Derda, Sevbân, Fedale b. It was narrated from Ubayd that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) broke his fast by vomiting. The meaning of this is: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was fasting voluntarily, he did not continue his fast because he vomited and became weak. Some hadiths on this subject have been interpreted in this way. Scholars act according to the hadith of Abu Hurayra, "Whoever vomits without his hand, there is no accident, and whoever vomits on purpose, let him make up for that day's fast". Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
725-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever eats and drinks forgetfully, let him keep his fast, because it is a food provided by Allah.” (Abu Dawud, Siamese: 39; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 15)
726-) Another similar hadith was narrated from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh). A hadith was also narrated from Abu Said, Umm Ishaq al-Ganeviyya. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. The majority of scholars act on this hadith. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. b. Enes says: If a person forgets to eat during Ramadan, he has to make up for that fast. The first view is more correct.
727-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person fasts in Ramadan without travel or sickness, even if he fasts for a year, he does not pay for that fast.” (Abu Dawud, Siamese: 38) We know this hadith of Abu Hurayra only in this way. I heard from Muhammad says: Ebul Mutavvis's name is Yazid b. hand is a Sufi. I do not know that he narrated any hadith other than this hadith.
728-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said, “O Messenger of Allah, I have been destroyed. What did the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) say, what destroyed you? They commanded. The man said, "I approached my wife while she was fasting in Ramadan." Thereupon, our Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Can you free a slave? They commanded. The man said no. Can you fast for two consecutive months? They commanded. Again the man said no. Can you feed sixty poor people morning and evening? When he said it, Adam again answered no. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Sit down. He also sat. Meanwhile, a large container of dates was brought to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, take away these dates and distribute them as charity. When the man said that there is no poorer among us between the two stony areas of Medina, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) laughed until his molars appeared and said: "Take those dates and feed them to your offspring." (Ibn Maje, Siyam: 14) In this regard, Ibn Omar, Aisha and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amir. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Scholars have applied this hadith according to the situation of a person who knowingly had sexual intercourse in Ramadan by acting on this hadith. On the subject of knowingly eating and drinking, they put forward different opinions, and some of them compared the punishment of eating and drinking to the punishment of sexual intercourse, saying that that person needs both qada and kaffarah. Sufyan as-Sevri, Ibn al-Mubarak and Ishaq are of this opinion. Some scholars say: qada is necessary for that person, and there is no need for kaffarah because the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said kaffarah for sexual intercourse, nothing like this about eating and drinking. Therefore, eating and drinking cannot be compared to sexual intercourse. Shafii and Ahmad are of this opinion. He says: The word "Give it to your offspring" to that man who broke the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)'s fast and received alms can mean several things. Firstly; Atonement is necessary for anyone who can afford it. This man, on the other hand, is someone who cannot afford kaffarah. Secondly: Atonement is necessary if the food is more than the drink. When this person bought those dates, he showed that he was very poor by saying that there is no poor among us here, and he was ordered to eat with his children. “A person in this situation must eat the sustenance he receives, and kaffarah remains on him as a debt. He says that whenever he finds financial means, then he will pay his expiation."
729-) Âmir b. According to the narration from Rabia (radiyallahu anh), she said: "I cannot count how many times I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) use the miswak while they were fasting." (Abu Dawud, Savm: 26; Bukhari, Savm: 27)) A hadith was also narrated from Aisha on this subject. Âmir b. The hadith of Rabia is hasan and the scholars acted on this hadith and said that there is no harm in the fasting person using the miswak. However, some scholars did not welcome the fasting person to use a wet miswak and to use a miswak towards the end of the day. Shafi'i says that it is not objectionable for a fasting person to use the miswak before and after the day, while Ahmed and Ishaq do not welcome using the miswak at the end of the day.
730-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and I have a complaint about my eyes. Can I wear a kohlrabi even though I am fasting? She asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said "yes"." (Abu Dawud, Siamese: 31; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 17) A hadith was also reported from Abu Rafi on this subject. The narration of the hadith of Anas is not very strong. In fact, no sound hadith has been reported from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) on this subject. It has been noted that Abu Atike was also weak. While scholars, like Sûfyan, İbn'ül Mubarak, Ahmed and İshâk, do not welcome the eye of a fasting person, some scholars such as Shafii allow it.
731-) It was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) kissed his wives during the months when he was fasting.” (Ibn Mace, Siyam: 19; Abu Dâvûd, Siyam: 33) In this regard, Ömer b. Hadith was also narrated from Khattab, Hafsa, Abu Said, Umm Salama, Ibn Abbas, Anas and Abu Huraira. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. The scholars of the Companions and Tabiun period have put forward different opinions about the fasting person kissing his wife. While some of them allow the old person to kiss, they do not allow the younger ones for fear of jeopardizing their fasting, and they find it more dangerous to be together without sexual intercourse. Some scholars say that kissing does not invalidate the fast, but it decreases the reward. They say that a person can kiss when he has control over himself. Sûfyan es Sevrî and Shafii are among them.
732-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was fasting, he loved and caressed me. He was the most confident of you.” (Ibn Majah, Siamese: 19; Abu Dawud, Siamese: 33)
733-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was fasting, he used to kiss his wives and exchange them with them. Because he was the one who trusted and dominated his lust the most.” (Ibn Majah, Siamese: 19; Abu Dâvûd, Siamese: 33) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Meysere's name was Amr b. It is Şurahbil. The meaning of the word "li irbihi" in the hadith means to himself and his lust.
734-) According to the narration from Hafsa (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person makes a firm decision to fast before the daylight hours, he has no fasting.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Savm: 72) We know Hafsa's hadith as merfu only in this way. It was narrated as the word of Ibn Umar through Nafi', which is more authentic. Likewise, this hadith was narrated from Zuhri as mawkuf, and only Yahya b. Ayyub narrated it as a merfu. According to some scholars, the meaning of the hadith is as follows. There is no fasting for those who make up their minds during the night and make no intention in Ramadan, in the accident of Ramadan and in the votive fasts. It doesn't matter if it is voluntary fasting, one can also make intention after morning. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq hold this view.
735-) According to the narration from Umm Hani (radiyallahu anha), she said: I was sitting next to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and a soft drink was brought. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) drank from it and gave it to me, so I drank it and said, "I have sinned and ask forgiveness for my forgiveness." "Why is that?" they ordered. “When I said I was fasting and I broke my fast, were you accidental of a debt?” they ordered. When he said: "No", they said, "There is no harm if it is useless". (Abu Dawud, Savm: 73; Ibn Majah, Siyam: 26) A hadith was also reported from Abu Said and Aisha.
736-) According to the narration from Shu'ba, he said: Simak b. From Harb, I heard Umm Hani say, one of her children told me; I met the most valuable of them, her name was Ja, Umm Hani, she was her grandmother. According to her grandmother, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to her house and asked for a drink. He drank, then gave it to him, and he drank, then, O Messenger of Allah, I fasted. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever fasts voluntarily is free; If he wishes, he can continue his fast or break it if he wishes.” He says: I said to Ja'de, did you hear this from Umm Hani? She said no. Abu Salih and his family members told us about Umm Hani. (Ebû Dâvûd: Savm: 73; İbn Mâce, Siyam: 26) b. Salama reported this hadith from Simak b. Narrating Harb, he says his deed is from Harun, son of Umm Hani's daughter, and Umm Hani. Shu'ba's narration is better. Mahmud b. Gaylan narrated to us in the same way from Abu Dawud, and conveyed it to us on suspicion by saying "emiru nafsihi" or "eminu nafsihi". In different ways, it was narrated in the form of order and sure, again doubting Shu'ba. It has been mentioned about Umm Hani's hadith. Some scholars from the time of the Companions and the Tabi'in acted on this hadith and said: "If a person who observes a voluntary fast breaks his fast, it is not necessary to make up for it", but I like to make it up. Sufyan es Sevri, Ahmed, Ishaq and Shafii are among them.
737-) According to a narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the mother of believers, she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came to me one day and did we have anything to eat? Said. I said no either. He said, "I am fasting". (Bukhari, Savm: 21)
738-) According to a narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the mother of believers, she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came to us one day and do you have anything to eat with you? said. I said no too. Then they said, "I am fasting". When he came to me once, I said, "O Messenger of Allah, a gift has been brought to us." “What is it?” they said. I said it is Hays (a meal consisting of a mixture of palm oil and cheese). He said, "I woke up fasting in the morning and he ate from the food." (Muslim, Siamese: 32; Abu Dâvûd, Savm: 71) This hadith is hasan.
739-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: “I and Hafsa were fasting, a meal was brought to us. We liked the food and we ate from it. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came. Since Hafsa was her father's daughter, she acted earlier than me and said: “O Messenger of Allah! We were both fasting, a meal was served to us, we liked it, and we ate from it” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said; They said, "Fast another day instead of that fast." (Abu Dawud, Savm: 73; Muslim, Siyam: 32) Salih b. Ebil Ahdar, Muhammed b. Abu Hafsa narrated this hadith in the same way from Zuhri, Urwa and Aisha. Again, Malik b. Enes, Ma'mer, Ubeydullah b. Ömer, Ziyâd b. Many Sa'd hadith memorizers narrated from Aisha as a mursal, but they did not mention "Urwa". This is more authentic.
740-) Because it is reported that Ibn Jurayj said: I asked Zuhrî: “Did Urve tell you a hadith from Aisha? I did not hear anything about this from Urwa, but Süleyman b. During the caliphate of Abdulmalik, I heard this hadith from some of those who asked Aisha. Said. Ali b. Isa b. Yazid al-Baghdadi reported this hadith to Ralh b. He narrated the same hadith to us by narrating it from Ibn Jurayc through Ubade. Some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later, by acting on this hadith; “They are of the opinion that a person who breaks a voluntary fast should make up for it.” Malik b. Enes is one of them.
741-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anh), she said: "I did not see the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) fasting for two consecutive months, but he used to fast in Sha'ban and Ramadan." (Abu Dawud, Savm: 12; Nesai, Siamese: 70) A hadith was also narrated from Aisha on this subject. The hadith of Umm Salama is hasan. This hadith was also reported from Aisha through Abu Salama as follows. “I have never seen that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) fasted more than he did in Sha'ban in any month.
742-) Hennad narrated another hadith in the same way from Aisha (radiyallahu anha). It is reported that Ibn al-Mubarak said about the hadith: "When he fasted most of the month, saying that he spent the whole month fasting is a permissible way of speaking in Arabic. It is said that such and such a person spent the whole night in worship, that person also did dinner and some work that night. In other words, Ibn al-Mubarak is of the opinion that both hadiths have the same meaning. and he means: “He would fast most of the month.” Sâlim, Ebûn Nadr and others from Aisha, through Abu Salama, from Muhammad b. He narrated the same narration as Amr.
743-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not fast in the second half of Sha'ban." (Abu Dawud, Siamese: 12; Muslim, Siamese: 37) The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan authentic. We know this hadith in this way and with these words. Some scholars say the meaning of this hadith is: "In order to be able to enter the month of Ramadan in a vigorous state, one does not fast in the second half of Sha'ban." A similar hadith from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was reported from Abu Hurayra. It is as follows: "Do not try to meet the month of Ramadan with fasting, but if it coincides with a fast you are holding, you can do it." The unpleasantness of fasting is due to fasting to meet Ramadan. Therefore, a person will be vigorous and prepared during the month of Ramadan.
744-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: One night, seeing that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was not with me, I went out and while I was looking, I found him in the cemetery of Bakî. Were you afraid that Allah and His Messenger would treat you unfairly? They commanded. I said: "O Messenger of Allah, I thought you were going to one of your wives." Upon this; He said, "Allah descends to the heavens of the earth in the middle of the month of Shaban and forgives sins or those who commit sins more than the number of hairs of the sheep of the Kelb tribe." (Nesai, Cenaiz: 103) hadiths were also reported from Abu Bakr as Siddiq. We know the hadith of Aisha (radiyallahu anha) in this form only from the narration of Hajjaj. I heard from Muhammad that this hadith is weak and Yahya b. He used to say that Abi Kathir had not heard from Urwa. Haccac b. Ertae, Yahya b. He did not hear any hadith from Abi Kathir.
745-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The most valuable fasting after Ramadan is the month of Muharram, the month of Allah." (Muslim, Siamese: 38; Abu Dawud, Savm: 56) The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan.
746-) It has been narrated from Ali (radiyallahu anh): "A person asked Ali (radiyallahu anh) in which month would you order me to fast after Ramadan, upon which Ali (radiyallahu anh) said: I asked this question to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). While I was sitting next to the Prophet (peace be upon him), I heard someone ask him, he said: O Messenger of Allah, in which month after Ramadan do you order me to fast? They said: If you are going to fast after Ramadan, do it in Muharram, because it is the first month of Allah's months. There is a day in that month when Allah accepts the repentance of a people and forgives them. He can forgive and forgive another society as well.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
747-) According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to fast for three days on the bright days of every month. It was very rare that he did not fast on Fridays.” (Abu Dawud, Savm: 52; Ibn Majah, Siyam: 37) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar and Abu Hurayra on this subject. The hadith of Abdullah is hasan garib. Some of the scholars considered fasting on Friday mustahab. It is makruh to fast only on Friday and not before or after it. Tirmidhi: Shu'ba relates this hadith from Asim and did not convey it to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam).
748-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is possible if one of you does not fast on Friday alone, if the days before and after it are fasted.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Savm: 52; İbn Mâce, Siyam: 37) Ali, Câbir, Cunade el Ezdî, Cüveyriye, Enes and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Scholars act upon this hadith. They consider it makruh to devote only Friday to fasting and not to fast before and after that day. Ahmed and Ishaq also hold this view.
749-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from the sister of Busr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not fast on Saturday, except what Allah has made obligatory for you. Even if you can find nothing but the bark of a grape stick or a tree branch to indicate that you are not fasting that day, chew or suck on it.” (Abu Dawud, Savm: 52; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 38) This hadith is hasan. The meaning of being makruh in this hadith; It is to allocate that day to fasting because the Jews consider that day great.
750-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to look forward to fasting on Monday and Thursday." (Nesâî, Siyam: 70; Ibn Mâce, Siamese: 42) Hafsa, Ebû Katâde, Ebû Hüreyre, Usâme b. A hadith was also narrated from Zayd. The hadith of Aisha is hasan garib in this form.
751-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to fast on Saturday, Sunday and Monday in one month and on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in the other month." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan. Abdurrahman b. Mahdi did not convey this hadith from Sufyan to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam).
752-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The deeds of people are presented to Allah on Mondays and Thursdays. That's why I like my deeds to be presented to Allah while fasting." (Tirmidhi narrated.) The hadith of Abu Huraira on this subject is hasan garib.
753-) Ubeydullah b. According to the narration from the father of Muslim al-Qurashi (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was asked (or asked) about the continuous fasting kept throughout the year, and he said: Your children have a right on you, too. Fast during Ramadan, the following month, Shawwal, and on Wednesdays and Thursdays. If you do this, you will gain rewards as if you had fasted for the year and you would not have fasted all the time.” (Abu Dawud, Savm: 57) A hadith was also narrated from Aisha on this subject. The hadith of Muslim al-Qurashi is garib. Others, this hadith Harun b. Salman, Muslim b. Narrated by Ubeydullah and his father.
754-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I hope that fasting on the day of Arafa will expiate the sins of the previous and next year.” (Muslim, Siamese: 18; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 40) A hadith was also reported from Abu Said on this subject. The hadith of Abu Qatada is hasan. Scholars have considered it recommended to fast on the eve of Eid al-Adha, except for those who are in Arafat for Hajj.
755-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not fast during Arafat and drank the milk that Umm Fadl sent. (Ibn Majah, Siamese: 40; Abu Dawud, Siamese: 63) hadiths were also reported from Abu Hurayra, Ibn Omar and Umm Fadl. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. It was narrated that Ibn Umar said: I made a pilgrimage with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and he did not fast on the day of Arafa. I made a pilgrimage with Umar, he did not fast. I made a pilgrimage with Osman, he did not fast. I made a pilgrimage with Abu Bakr and he did not fast. The majority of scholars act on this hadith. They consider it mustahab not to fast on that day in order to find the strength to pray in Arafat, and some scholars also fasted during Arafat.
756-) According to the narration from the father of Abu Nüceyh (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Ibn Umar was asked about fasting in Arafat on the day of Arafat. . I made a pilgrimage with Abu Bakr, and he did not. I made a pilgrimage with Omar, and he didn't take it either. I made a pilgrimage with Osman, and he didn't take it either. I also do not fast that day, I do not order it to be fasted, nor do I say not to fast.” (Ibn Majah, Siamese: 40; Abu Dawud, Siamese: 63) This hadith is hasan. This hadith was narrated from a man other than Ibn Abi Nujayh's father and from Ibn Umar. Abu Nüceyh's name is “Yesâr”.
757-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I hope that fasting on the day of Ashura will expiate the sins of the previous year." (Abu Dâvûd, Siamese: 64; Muslim, Siamese: 20) Ali, Muhammed b. Sayfiy, Selemetübnül Ekvâ', Hind b. Esma, Ibn Abbas, Rübeyyi' bint Muavviz b. Afra, Abdurrahman b. From the uncle of Seleme al-Huzai, Abdullah b. A hadith was reported from Zubayr and they said that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) encouraged the fasting of Ashura. We know only from the narration of Abu Qatada that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Fasting on the day of Ashura is the expiation of a year". Ahmed and Ishaq act according to the narration of Abu Qatada.
758-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: “The day of Ashura was a day when Quraysh fasted during the ignorance period. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to fast that day. When he came to Medina, he fasted that day and ordered the Muslims to fast. Then, when Ramadan fasting was made obligatory, Ramadan remained as obligatory fasting. Ashura fasting was stopped. After that, whoever wanted did, and whoever wanted didn't.” (Muslim, Siyam: 19; Abu Dâvûd, Siyam: 64) In this regard, Ibn Mas'ud, Kays b. Sa'd, Câbir b. Hadith was also narrated from Samura, Ibn Omar and Muawiya. Scholars act on the hadith of Aisha, and this hadith is authentic. They are of the opinion that fasting of Ashura is not wâjib. Since it is a precious and precious day, whoever wishes can fast on that day.
759-) Referee b. According to the narration from A'rec (radiyallahu anh), he said: I arrived next to Ibn Abbas, who was standing next to the Zamzam well, with his clothes made a pillow. I said: “Tell me what day is the day of Ashura, I will fast on that day. He said: When you see the crescent of Muharram, count the days and fast on the ninth day. I said: “Is this how Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to fast for Ashura? Ibn Abbas replied, “Yes”. (Muslim, Siam: 19; Abu Dawud, Savm: 65)
760-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered the fast of Ashura to be kept on the tenth day." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan sound. Some people said that it is the ninth day of Muharram, while others said that it is the tenth day of the month of Ashura. It is also narrated that Ibn Abbas said: “Oppose the Jews by fasting on the ninth and tenth days…” Ahmad, Ishaq and Shafii are of the same opinion.
761-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) reported that she said: “I did not see the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) fasting in the ten days of Dhul-Hijjah.” (Abu Dawud, Savm: 62; Ibn Majah, Savm: 39) Many people have narrated this hadith from A'mesh, Ibrahim, Aswad and Aisha. By quoting this hadith from Mansur and Ibrahim, Sevri and others say that "the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was not seen fasting on the ten days of Dhul-Hijjah". in Ahvas; Mansur narrated from Ibrahim and Aisha but did not mention "Aswad". In this hadith, there is disagreement about Mansur. The narration of A'mash is better in terms of sound isnad. Muhammed b. I heard from Eban, he was saying: I heard from Vekî he was saying: A'mesh knows the hadith of Ibrahim better than Mansur.
762-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There is no day when the good deeds done in those days are more beloved to Allah than the deeds done in the ten days of this Dhul-Hijjah. . O Messenger of Allah! they said. Is he making jihad in the way of Allah? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Jihad in the way of Allah is not more beloved. However, if a person goes out to jihad with his life and property and does not return with any of them, that is excluded.” (Abu Dawud, Savm: 61; Ibn Majah, Siyam: 39) Ibn Omar, Abu Hurayra, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr and Jabir. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan sahih.
763-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The deeds done on the ten days of Dhul-Hijjah are more beloved than the deeds done on the other days and the worship done. Each fast in these ten days is equivalent to the fast of one year. Evaluating every night with prayer is like evaluating the night of power.” (Ibn Majah, Siamese: 39; Abu Dâvûd, Savm: 61) This hadith is strange. This hadith was only reported by Mas'ud b. We know from the narration of Vasil by Nehhas. I asked about this hadith. He stated that he knew in this way and with this narration, that he did not know otherwise and said: “From Qatada, Said b. Something similar to this has been narrated from Musayyeb and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as a mursal.” b. Said spoke back and forth about Nehhas in the direction of his memory.
764-) According to the narration from Abu Ayyub (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever fasts in Ramadan and adds six more days than Shawwal, it is as if he fasted the whole year." (Muslim, Siamese: 39; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 33) hadiths were also reported from Jabir, Abu Huraira and Sevban. The hadith of Abu Ayyub is hasan sahih. With this hadith, some of the scholars considered it mustahab to fast six times in Shawwal. Mubarak says: Fasting three days out of every month is a good fast. In some hadiths, he says that this fast will be added to the Ramadan fast and that he prefers it to be held in the first days of this month, but it will be permissible if it is held on different days. Abdulaziz b. Muhammad reported this hadith from Saffan b. From Sulaym, Sa'd b. Said from Umar b. He narrated from Thabit and Abu Ayyub in this way. Shu'ba was Verka b. Umar, Sa'd b. He narrated this hadith from Said. Sa'd b. Said, Yahya b. He is the brother of Said al-Ansari. Some hadith scholars such as Sa'd b. They criticized Said for his memory. As Hennad tells us; Huseyn b. Ali al-Cufi reports from Israel, Abu Musa, and Hasan from Basri, when Hasan Basri is reminded of the six-day fast from Shawwal, he says: “With the fasting in this month, Allah; He was contented as if he had fasted the whole year.”
765-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) advised me to do three things: “Not to sleep without performing witr, to fast for three days in each month and to perform the morning prayer.” (Muslim, Siamese: 36; Abu Dawud, Siamese: 68)
766-) Musa b. According to the narration from Talha (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard from Abu Dharr that he was saying: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "O Abu Dharr! Fasting three days from each month, let it be the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth days of that month.” (Muslim, Siyam: 36; Abu Dâvûd, Siyam: 68) Abu Qatade, Abdullah b. Amr, Kurreta b. İyas el Müzeni, Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Abu Akreb, Ibn Abbas, Aisha, Qatade, Ibn Milhan, Osman b. A hadith was also narrated from Abibi As and Jarir. The hadith of Abu Dharr is hasan. It is reported in some hadiths: "Fasting three days out of each month is like fasting the whole year."
767-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever fasts three days out of every month will be rewarded as if he had fasted the whole year.” Allah reveals the measure of this in his book as follows: If he appears before God with a good deed and behavior, he will earn ten times what he did. But whoever comes before his Lord with a bad deed will be punished with the same. and no one will be treated unjustly.” (An'am: 160) One day is counted as ten days. (Muslim, Siamese: 36; Abu Dawud, Siamese: 68) This hadith is hasan authentic. Shu'ba narrated this hadith from Abu Shimr and Abu-t Tayyah, Abu Osman and Abu Huraira.
768-) It was narrated from Muâze (radiy-Allâhu anha): “I asked Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) whether the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) fasted three days in every month. He said yes. I said what days would it be? He wouldn't mind any day." Said. (Muslim, Siamese: 36; Abu Dawud, Siamese: 68) This hadith is hasan authentic. Yezîd er Rişk is Yezîd ed Dubaî. He is the same in Yazid al-Qasim and Qassam. It means Rishk al-Qassam in Basra language.
769-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Your Lord says; For each good deed, tenfold rewards are written up to seven hundred times. Fasting, on the other hand, is not subject to such an evaluation, its reward belongs to me and I will reward it. Fasting is a protective shield against fire. The smell of the mouth of a fasting person is more pleasant in the sight of Allah than the smell of musk. If an ignorant person taunts you while you are fasting, let him say that he is fasting and not give another answer." (Bukhari, Savm: 2; Muslim, Siyam: 30) Muâz b. Cebel, Sahl b. Sa'd, Ka'b b. Ucre, Selame b. Kayser, Beşîr b. Hasasiyye whose name is Zahm b. It is mabed. Hasasiyye is her mother. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan garib in this respect.
770-) Sahl b. According to a narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "There is a door in Paradise called Rayyan. Those who fast will be called from that door. Whoever really fasts will enter Paradise through that door. And whoever enters through that door will not thirst forever.” (Bukhari, Savm: 2; Muslim, Siyam: 30) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
771-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The fasting person has two times of joy; The first is when he breaks his fast and the second is when he meets his Lord in Paradise.” (Muslim, Siamese: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
772-) According to the narration from Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), the following was said to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): What do you say about a person who fasts all year long? They said: "Such a person neither fasted nor had iftar. Or he did not fast, he did not break the fast.” (Muslim, Siyam: 36; Abu Dâvûd, Savm: 5) Abdullah b. Amr, Abdullah b. Şıhhir, Imran b. Hadith was also narrated from Husayn and Abu Musa. The hadith of Qatada is hasan authentic. Some scholars do not tolerate fasting throughout the year. Some have allowed it. Those who don't like it say the following: Spending the whole year with fasting means fasting the days of Eid-al-Fitr, Eid-al-Adha and Teşrik. Whoever does not fast these days will be out of the limit of karahiyyah. and he is not considered to have fasted the whole year. Malik b. It was narrated from Anas in this way, and Shafii is of the same opinion. and Ishaq they say this approximately and say: The number of days that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) cannot fast is prohibited. The first day of Eid-al-Fitr and the four days of Eid-al-Adha.
773-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Shakik (radiyallahu anh), I asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha) about the fasting of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and she said: He used to fast so much that we said he would never stop. Sometimes he would not fast until he said he would never fast. Aisha (radiyallahu anha) continued as follows. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) did not fast in any month except Ramadan. (Muslim, Siamese: 34; Nesai, Siamese: 35; Abu Dâvûd, Siamese: 54; Nesâî, Siamese: 70) hadiths were also reported from Anas and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Aisha is authentic.
774-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he was asked about the fasting of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and he said: “He fasted to such an extent in a month that it was thought that he would spend the whole month fasting. He would not fast in some months, it was thought that he would not fast from that month. If you wanted to see him praying at night, you would definitely see him in prayer, if you wanted to see him while asleep, you would see him while asleep." (Bukhari, Savm: 52) This hadith is hasan authentic.
775-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The most valuable fast is the fast of my brother Dawud. One day he would fast and the next he would eat, and when he faced the enemy, he would not flee.” (Bukhari, Savm: 58; Muslim, Siyam: 35) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abbas, A'ma from Mecca is a poet. His name is Sâib b. Ferruh. Some scholars consider fasting as the most valuable; fasting one day and not fasting the next. This is the most severe form of fasting.
776-) According to the narration from Abdurrahman Avf's (radiy-Allâhu anh) freed slave, Abu Ubayd said: I saw Khattab, he started the prayer before the sermon and said: “I heard from him that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was forbidden to fast on these two days. Eid-al-Fitr, which is the day you break your fast, is the holiday of Muslims. When you come to the Eid-al-Adha, eat the meat of the sacrifices you cut.” (Bukhari, Savm: 66; Muslim, Siamese: 22) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. The name of Abu Ubayd, who was freed from Avf, is Sa'd. Abdurrahman b. It is also called Azhar's freedman. Abdurrahman b. Ezher, Abdurrahman b. He is the son of Avf's uncle.
777-) According to a narration from Abu Said al-Khudri, he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade two fasts. Eid-al-Adha day and Eid-al-Fitr day.” (Bukhari, Savm: 66; Muslim, Siamese: 22) In this regard, Ömer, Ali, Aisha, Abu Huraira, Ukbe b. Hadith was also narrated from Amir and Anas. The hadith of Abu Said is hasan authentic. Scholars practice with this hadith. Amr b. Yahya, Ibn Umar b. He is Abu'l Hasen al Mazini al Madani and is a reliable person. From him Sûfyan es Sevrî, Şu'be, Malik b. Enes had narrated.
778-) Uqbe b. According to the narration from Amir (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The day of Arafah, the day of Eid and the days of tashriq are the days of Eid and the days of eating and drinking for us Muslims." (Bukhari, Savm: 66; Muslim, Siamese: 22) On this subject, Ali, Sa'd, Ebû Hüreyre, Câbir, Nübeyşe, Bişr b. Suhaym, Abdullah b. Huzafe, Enes, Hamza b. Amr el Eslemî, Ka'b b. Malik, Aisha, Amr b. As and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. Uqbe b. The hadith of Âmir is hasan authentic. Scholars act on this hadith and do not welcome fasting on the days of Eid-al-Adha, which is called the days of tashrik. But some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later; They allowed those who made the pilgrimage to temettü and could not find a sacrifice to fast on the days of tashrik. Malik b. Among them are Enes, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq. Iraqis: “Musa b. Ali b. They say "Rebah". The Egyptians said: “Musa b. They say "Ali". I heard Qutayba saying: Leys b. I heard Sa'd say: I will not give my rights to anyone who says my father's name in the form of diminutive (Ali means Uley).
779-) Rafi' b. According to a hadith (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The fast of the person who gets blood drawn or the person who receives it is broken." (Bukhari, Savm: 32; Ibn Mâce, Siyam: 18) Ali, Sa'd, Şeddâd b. Evs, Sevbân, Usâme b. Zeyd, Aisha Ma'kil b. Hadiths were also narrated from Sinan (Makil Ibn Yesar), Abu Huraira, Ibn Abbas, Abu Musa, Bilal and Sa'd. Rafi' b. The hadith hadith is hasan authentic. b. Hanbal said: “The strongest narration on this subject is Rafi' b. Hadic's narration." b. It was narrated from Abdullah that he said: The most authentic narration on this subject is Sevbân ve Şeddâd b. It is an aws hadith. Because Yahya b. Abi Kathir narrated two complete hadiths from Abu Qilaba. The hadiths of Sevban and Shaddad… (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)'s Companions and some scholars did not approve of a fasting person getting blood drawn, and some Companions even had blood drawn at night. Abu Musa al-Ashari and Ibn 'Umar are among them. Ibn al-Mubarak is of the same opinion. Ishaq b. I heard Mansur saying: Abdurrahman b. Mahdi; “Whoever gets blood drawn while fasting must make up for that fast.” they said. b. Mansur: Ahmad and Ishaq are of the same opinion. Za'farani told me that Shafi'i said: There are hadiths regarding the fact that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had blood drawn even though he was fasting, and the fast of a person who had blood drawn or received blood was also broken. Therefore, I do not know which of these two hadiths is stable. However, it would be more pleasant for me if a fasting person did not have blood drawn. However, if it is necessary and the fasting person gets blood drawn, I do not think that his fast will be broken. Such was the view of Shafi'i in Baghdad. However, he inclined to have blood drawn by a fasting person in Egypt, and he did not see any harm in having blood drawn by the fasting person.
780-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had blood drawn while he was in Ihram and fasting." (Bukhari, Savm: 32; Muslim, Hajj: 11)
781-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had blood drawn while fasting." (Bukhari, Sawm: 32; Muslim, Hajj: 11) hadith in this form is hasan sound.
782-) Again, according to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had blood drawn between Mecca and Medina even though he was in Ihram and fasting.” Bukhari, Savm: 32; Muslim, Hajj: 11) There are hadiths on this subject from Abu Said, Jabir and Anas. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods do not see any harm in getting blood drawn by a fasting person. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik b. Enes and Shafii are among them.
783-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); He said, "Do not combine fasting without breaking the fast." They said, "O Messenger of Allah, you are doing this job. They said: "I am not like you, my Lord makes me eat and drink." (Bukhari, Savm: 48; Muslim, Siyam: 11) Ali, Abu Huraira, Aisha, Ibn Omar, Jabir, Abu Said, Bashir b. A hadith was also narrated from Hasasiyya. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic. Scholars did not like to combine fasting with each other without breaking the fast by acting on this hadith. b. It is also reported that Zubayr fasted for days without breaking the fast.
784-) According to what we have been informed by Aisha and Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), one of the wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was a junub, he used to fast during the fajr period by making a ghusl.” (Bukhari, Savm: 22; Muslim, Siyam: 13) The hadith of Aisha and Umm Salama is hasan authentic. Most of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later scholars practiced this hadith. Sufyan, Shafii, Ahmed, Ishaq are among them. Some of the Tabi'un period say: "If a person wakes up as junub, he will make up for that day's fast." The first view is more correct.
785-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When one of you is invited to dinner, he should accept the invitation and if he is fasting, let him pray to the owner of the house." (Muslim, Siam: 28; Abu Dawud, Savm: 75)
786-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "When one of you is fasting, he should say, "I am fasting." (Muslim, Siamese: 28; Abu Dâvûd, Savm: 75) Two hadiths of Abu Hurayra are hasan authentic.
787-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A woman who is with her husband should not fast for a single day, except during the month of Ramadan, without her husband’s permission.” (Muslim, Zakat: 26; Abu Dâvûd, Siyam: 74) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas and Abu Said on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. This hadith was written by Abu'z Zinad, Musa b. A hadith was also narrated from Abi Osman and his father, Abu Huraira.
788-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "I used to make up for the fasts that I could not keep in Ramadan until the death of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the month of Shaban." (Bukhari, Savm: 39; Muslim, Siyam: 26) This hadith is hasan authentic. A similar hadith was reported by Yahya b. Said al-Ansari narrated from Abu Salama and Aisha.
789-) According to the narration from Umm Umarah (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If people who do not fast eat next to the fasting person, the angels pray and seek forgiveness for that fasting person.” (Ibn Majah, Siyam: 46) Shu'be reported this hadith from Habib b. It was narrated from Zayd, Layla, her grandmother and Umm Umara in a similar way.
790-) According to the narration from Ka'b al-Ansariyya, the daughter of Umm Umare (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to Umm Umare's house and she offered him food. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him, "Eat with you". Umm Umara; “I am fasting,” he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When a fasting person eats food, the angels pray and ask forgiveness for the fasting person until they stop eating or until they are satisfied." (Ibn Majah, Siamese: 46) This hadith is hasan authentic.
791-) Umm Umare (radiyallahu anha)'s daughter Ka'b, from Muhammad b. Bashar narrated a similar hadith and did not say the part of "until he stops eating or is full". (Ibn Majah, Siamese: 48) Umm Umare, Habib b. She is the grandmother of Zayd al-Ansari.
792-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “We used to menstruate at the time of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and were cleansed; he would order us to make up the fast and not make up the prayer.” (Bukhari, Hayz: 21; Muslim, Hayz: 15) This hadith is hasan. It has been reported from Muâzeh and Aisha in the same way, and scholars act on this hadith. Ubaidah; He is Ibn Muattib ed Dabbi al Kufi. It is labeled as "Abu Abdulkarim".
793-) Lakît b. According to a narration from Sabre's (radiyallahu anh) father, he said: "I said, O Messenger of Allah, tell me something about wudu." He said: "Wash your ablution organs thoroughly and carefully, put water between your fingers, and inhale well while giving water to your mouth and nose when you are not fasting." Abu Dawud, Savm: 27; Nesai, Tahara: 71) the hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars did not approve of a fasting person taking medicine into his nose, and they were of the opinion that this would invalidate the fast. It is in the nature of reinforcing their view on this issue and with this hadith.
794-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a guest becomes a guest, he should not fast without the permission of the people he is visiting.” (Ibn Majah: Siyam: 54) This hadith is munkar. This hadith was narrated by Hisham b. We do not know that reliable narrators other than Urwa narrated it. b. Dâvûd, from Ebû Bekir el Madani, Hisham b. He narrated a similar hadith from Urwa, his father and Aisha: This hadith is as weak as the one above. Abu Bakr al Madani is seen as weak by hadithists. Jabir b. The name of Abu Bakr al-Madani, who narrated hadiths from Abdullah, is Fadl Ibn Mubashshir. The first of these two Abu Bakr was more reliable and lived before him in history.
795-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to spend the last ten days of Ramadan praying until he died.” (Ibn Majah, Siyam: 58; Abu Dâvûd, Siyam: 77) Ubey b. Hadiths were also narrated from Ka'b, Abu Layla, Abu Said, Anas and Ibn Omar. Tirmidhi: The hadith of Abu Huraira and Aisha is hasan authentic.
796-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "When the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) would perform i'tikaf, he would perform the morning prayer before the first night of the last ten days of Ramadan and enter the place where he would perform i'tikaf." (Bukhari, Itikaf: 7; Muslim, Itikaf: 9) This hadith was written by Yahya b. It was narrated from Said, from Amre as mursal. Malik and many others, Yahya b. They narrated from Said as mursal from Amre. Evzâî, Sûfyan es Sevrî and others Yahya b. They narrated this hadith from Said, Amra and Aisha. Some scholars, acting on this hadith, say: "The person who will do Itikaf performs the morning prayer and enters the place where he will do Itikaf." Ahmed and Ishaq b. Abraham is of the same opinion. Some scholars say: "A person who will do I'tikaf should enter the place where he will do I'tikaf before the night he wants to do I'tikaf, and the sun should set when he is there." Sûfyan es Sevrî and Malik b. Enes is one of them.
797-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) reported: "The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to retreat to the place where he would i'tikaf in the last ten days of Ramadan and search for the night of Qadr in the last ten days of Ramadan." (Muslim, Siyam: 40; Ibn Mâce, Siyam: 56) on the subject, Ömer, Übey, Câbir b. Samura, Câbir b. Abdillah, Ibn Omar, Feletan b. Asım, Enes, Ebû Said, Abdullah b. Unays ez Zubayrî, Abu Bakr, Ibn Abbas, Bilal and Ubade b. A hadith has also been narrated from Samit. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. The word Yucaviru mentioned in the hadith means Itikaf. Most of the narrations from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) are in the form of "Search for the night of power in the odd days of the last ten days". It is also narrated from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that the night of power is twenty-one, twenty-three, twenty-five, twenty-seven, twenty-nine and the last night of Ramadan. Shafi'i says: Allah knows better, but I think the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) answered the questions according to their form, so he said, "Do some research at night or something." In my opinion, the strongest narration on this subject is that it was the twenty-first night. Ubey b. Ka'b swore that the Night of Power was the twenty-seventh night and would say: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) informed us about the signs of the Night of Power, we counted and learned. It was narrated from Abu Qilabe that he said: "The night of Qadr keeps wandering in the last ten days of Ramadan." Likewise, Abd b. Humayd also narrated it to us from Abdurrezzak, Ma'mer and Ayyub.
798-) According to the narration from Zirr Ibn Hubaysh (radiyallahu anh), he said: Ubay b. Rude; O Abul Munzir, how did you know that the night of power is the twenty-seventh night? He said: Yes, I know, as the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told us: "It is such a night that the sun does not rise brightly in the morning", so we counted it and learned it. I swear; Ibn Mas'ud certainly knew that that night was the twenty-seventh night of Ramadan. But he did not like to tell people that this night is on this day, in case they trust such a word and reduce their worship. (Muslim, Siamese: 40; Ibn Majah, Siamese: 56) This hadith is hasan authentic.
799-) Uyeyne b. According to the narration from Abdurrahman (radiyallahu anh), he said: My father said: "The night of power was mentioned in the presence of Abu Bakr, and he said: I do not seek the night of power in the last ten days of Ramadan, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)" It is because of a hadith I heard. According to what I heard from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) he said: "Seek the night of power in the nine, seven, five and third of the last ten days or the last night." Abu Bakr used to pray on the twenty days of Ramadan, as he normally does in a year, and when the last ten days came, he would try to find and evaluate the Night of Qadr with all his strength. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
800-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to wake his family members to pray in the last ten days of Ramadan.” (Muslim, Itikaf: 3; Bukhari, Tarawih: 6) This hadith is hasan authentic.
801-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); In the last ten days of Ramadan, he would not show the effort he made for worship and servitude at other times. (Muslim, Itikaf: 3; Bukhari, Tarawih: 6) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
802-) Âmir b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The booty obtained in the cold is fasting on winter days." (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is mursal. Because Âmir b. Mas'ud did not catch up with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Abraham b. He is the father of Amir al-Qurashi. Shu'ba and Thawri narrated hadiths from him.
803-) Salama b. According to what is reported from Ekvâ' (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “… it is necessary to feed a poor person on those who cannot afford to fast, or those who are unable to fast but eat by force.” When the verse was revealed, those who wished would not fast but give fidyah. When the 185th verse that followed was revealed, this made the previous verse null and void. (Muslim, Siamese: 25) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Yazid; Salama b. He is the son of Abu Ubayda, the freed slave of al-Aqwa.
804-) Muhammed b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Enes b. I came to Malik; He was also dressed in his traveling clothes. He asked for food and ate. I asked him, "Is this sunnah you did?" said. He said "It is circumcision" and got on his horse. (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
805-) Muhammed b. According to the narration from Ka'b, he said: “Anas b. I came to Malik during Ramadan…” He said and narrated a similar hadith to us. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan. Muhammed b. Cafer is the son of Abu Kathir, and he is a reliable and reliable person from Medina. Ismail b. He is also the brother of Cafer. Abdullah b. Cafer is the son of Necih and Ali b. He is the father of al-Madinî. Yahya b. Maîn says he is weak in hadith. Scholars, acting on this hadith, say that "the person who will go on a journey should eat at home before the dead end and shorten the prayer until the walls of the city and village become invisible". Ibrahim al Hanzali is of the same opinion.
806-) Hasen b. According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The gift of the fasting person is the things to be spread on perfume and the materials to be smoked." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. It's not very solid. Only Sa'd b. We know from the narration of Tarif. Sa'd b. Tarif is said to be weak in the hadith. Umayr b. Ma'mûm is also one of those who are seen as weak.
807-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The day when Muslims break their fast, Eid-al-Adha; It is the day when Muslims sacrifice a sacrifice.” (Ibn Majah, Siamese: 9) I asked Muhammad; Muhammed b. Did Munkadir hear a hadith from Aisha? Muhammad said "Yes" and in his narration he says "I heard it from Aisha". This hadith is hasan garib authentic as it is.
808-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to perform Itikaf in the last ten days of Ramadan. He did not do I'tikaf for a year; the next year, he did I'tikaf for twenty days." (Tirmidhi narrated it.) b. As a narration from Malik, this hadith is hasan sahih garib. Some of the scholars say that a person who fails to complete his i'tikaf who cannot complete it according to his intentions must make up for it, and they use the following hadith as evidence: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) once left i'tikaf and instead performed i'tikaf for ten days in Shawwal." Malik is of this opinion. Some scholars say: If he has not made Itikaf as a vow and made it wâjib for himself, if he has broken a voluntary worship, he does not have to make qada. But if he does it of his own will and will, it can be. But it is not wâjib for him to make up like this. This is the view of Shafi'i. Shafi'i says: "If you engage in a worship that you are not obliged to do, other than Hajj and Umrah, and then give up or break it, you do not have to make up for it." A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira on the subject.
809-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was in Itikaf, he would stick his head out to me from his room adjacent to the mosque, and I would comb his hair. He would only come out of his i'tikaf for toilet needs and enter the house." (Bukhari, Hayz: 3; Muslim, Hayz: 3) This hadith is hasan sahih. Many people have narrated this hadith from Malik, Shihab, Urwa, Amra and Aisha. Some people narrate from Malik, Ibn Shihab, Urwa, Amre and Âisha, but the authentic narration is Urwa, Amre and Âisha.
810-) Leys b. According to the hadith narrated by Sa'd (radiyallahu anh) from Ibn Shihab, Urwa, Amre and Aisha: Scientists; They have collectively decided that a person who enters Itikaf can leave the place of Itikaf only to fulfill their human needs, both small and large ablutions. They expressed different opinions on issues such as visiting the sick, attending Friday and attending the funeral. If some of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and those who followed him stipulated that he would attend Friday, attend the funeral and visit the sick, while he was entering Itikaf, they can do the things that he stipulated. es Sevri and Ibn al-Mubarak are of this opinion. Some scholars say that they cannot do any of these things, and they say that anyone who will do I'tikaf should enter a mosque in a city, which is made on Friday. They do not welcome him to go from the place of I'tikaf to Friday, and they do not allow him to leave the place of I'tikaf, and they say, "It is necessary to enter Itikaf only in a mosque where Fridays are performed," so they think that leaving the place of I'tikaf will break his I'tikaf for others that he can only go out for toilet needs. Like Shafii and Malik; Ahmed; According to the hadith of Aisha, they say, "He cannot visit the patient, nor attend the funeral." If: If it is stipulated before entering Itikaf; They say, "He can attend the funeral or visit the patient."
811-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh), he said: "We fasted together with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and he did not lead us any prayer other than the obligatory prayer until the last week of Ramadan. One week before the end of Ramadan, he led prayers until one third of the night had passed. We said: "O Messenger of Allah, if you pray for us for the rest of the night?" Thereupon, he said: "Whoever prays with the imam until he finishes the prayer, it will be rewarded as if he had prayed the night away." He did not lead us in prayer until the last three days of Ramadan, he did so on the third day, called his children and led us to pray until we were afraid of "Falah". What is "Falah" for Abu Dharr? said. “Sahur,” he said. (Nesai, Sahv: 103; İbn Mâce, İkame: 173) This hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars have put forward different views about the worship at night. Some of them are of the opinion that "forty-one" rak'ah should be performed together with the vitr. The people of Medina are of this opinion and this practice is valid in Medina. Many of the scholars are of the opinion that "twenty" rak'ahs should be performed, as reported by the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) like Umar, Ali and others. Sevri, Ibn al-Mubarak and Shafi'i also hold this view. says: I witnessed that "twenty" rak'ahs were performed in our hometown of Mecca. On the other hand, he says: There are many opinions on this subject, and he does not make a judgment about any of them. If: Ubay b. It is narrated from Ka'b that he prefers to perform "forty-one" rak'ahs. Ibn al-Mubarak, Ahmed and Ishaq preferred that the night prayer should be performed with the imam in Ramadan. If: He prefers that anyone who is good at reading can do it by himself. In this regard, Âisha, Numân b. Hadith was also narrated from Bashir and Ibn Abbas.
812-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Khalid al-Juhani (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever gives iftar meal to a fasting person, he will receive as much reward as that of the fasting person, without detracting from the reward of the fasting person.” (Ibn Majah, Siamese: 45) This hadith is hasan authentic.
813-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) encouraged Muslims to spend the nights of Ramadan in worship without giving any orders, saying: "Whoever spends the nights of Ramadan with worship, believing and expecting his reward from Allah, his past sins will be forgiven." While the nights of Ramadan were being evaluated in this way, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed away, during the caliphate of Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) and continued in this way until the beginning of the caliphate of Umar (radiyallahu anh). (Muslim, Salatül Musafirin: 25; Abu Dawud, Ramadan: 1) A hadith was also narrated from Aisha. This hadith was also reported from Zuhri, Urwa and Aisha. This hadith is hasan authentic.
814-) According to the narration from Abu Shurayh al-Adewi (radiyallahu anh): Abu Shureyh, Amr b. Said to Said: -While sending an army to Mecca- O commander, allow me to tell you a word that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said the day after the conquest of Makkah. My ears have heard this word, my heart (mind) has grasped it and my eyes have also seen it. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) started this speech with the praise and praise of Allah and said: “Indeed, Allah made Mecca haram, not humans. Therefore, it is not permissible for anyone who believes in Allah and the Last Day to shed blood and cut a tree there. If he finds a license to fight for himself based on the battle of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) in Mecca, say to him: Allah gave permission to His Messenger in this matter, but he did not allow you! This permission was given to me at one time of the day. Mecca's prohibition of yesterday still continues today. Let those who are here and those who hear about this situation announce to those who are not.” When I told this to Shurayh, it was said, what did Amr say to you? Amr b. Said said: O Abu Shurayh! I know this better than you, of course, this haram region does not host the Rebel, he replied, "It does not shelter those who escaped because of blood and corrupters." (Bukhari, Science: 38; Muslim, Hajj: 82) The word "Bi harbetin" in the hadith has also been narrated as "Bihizyetin", that is, it does not include those who run away with an embarrassing situation. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Huraira and Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith of Abu Shurayh is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Shureyh al-Huzai was Huveylid b. He is Amr al-Adewi al-Ka'bi. The meaning of the word "Vela Farran bi war" in the hadith means murder. In other words, if a person commits a murder and takes refuge in the harem after he gets blood on his hands, this person is not accommodated in the harem, but he is punished.
815-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Perform Hajj and Umrah together because Hajj and Umrah remove sins and poverty. Just as the bellows removes the dirt and rust of iron, gold and silver, the reward of an accepted pilgrimage is only Paradise.” (Nesâî, Menasik: 6) Ömer, Âmir b. Rabia, Abu Huraira, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Hubshi, Umm Salama and Jabir. The hadith of Ibn Mas'ud is hasan sahih.
816-) According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever makes a pilgrimage, and this is like going out of all kinds of bad words and the straight path Allah has drawn during his hajj. If he does not commit a crime, his past sins are forgiven.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 4; Muslim, Hajj: 79) The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan authentic. Hazim is from Küfe and is also called "Eşcai". He is the freed slave of a person named Azze, whose name is Salman, and who is a member of the Eşca tribe.
817-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "What does it matter whether a person dies as a Jew or a Christian who has enough food and supplies to go to Mecca but does not make pilgrimage. Because in the Book of Allah, in the 97th verse of the chapter of Aal-i Imran, “… Pilgrimage to the Ka'ba is a duty that all Muslims who can afford it have to fulfill. Whoever denies this duty and does not fulfill it should know that Allah is independent of all the worlds and is self-sufficient in all respects. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange and we only know it as it is. It was mentioned in the deed. Hilal b. Abdullah is an unknown person, his weakness is mentioned in the hadith in his Haris.
818-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said; O Messenger of Allah! “What makes the pilgrimage obligatory?” She asked. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) replied: “It is the availability of food and a stash.” (Ibn Majah, Menasik: 6; Bukhari, Hajj: 1) This hadith is hasan. Scholars do their practices according to this hadith and say, "Hajj is obligatory for anyone who has food and riding gear." Abraham b. Yazid al Havzi al Makki. Some scholars have talked about this person in terms of his memory.
819-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the 97th verse of Âl-i imrân was revealed, some said: “O Messenger of Allah, every year? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) kept silent, and they asked again every year?" Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: “No”. “If I said yes, it would be obligatory every year.” Thereupon, Allah revealed the 101st verse of Surah Maida. “O you who believe, do not ask about the things that will make you difficult and upset when it is explained…” (Ibn Majah, Menasik: 2) A hadith is also reported from Ibn Abbas and Abu Huraira on this subject. The hadith of Ali (radiyallahu anh) is hasan garib. Ebûl Bahterî's name is Said b. Abî Imran. Said b. It is called in Fairuz.
820-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed Hajj three times. Two pilgrimages before the hijra, one pilgrimage together with umrah after the hijra, in which the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) brought sixty-three camels, and the remaining (thirty-seven) camels were brought by Ali from Yemen. Abu Jahl's camel with a silver ring on its nose was among them. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sacrificed all of them and ordered a piece of each to be taken and cooked, so the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) drank from its juice.” (Ibn Mace, Menasik: 84) This hadith, which is the narration of Sufyan, is strange. Only Zayd b. We know from the narration of Hubab. Abdullah b. In the hadiths that Abdurrahman wrote himself, Abdullah b. I saw that he narrated from Ebiz Ziyad. I asked Muhammad about this hadith; He did not recognize the narration of Sevri from Cafer, his father, and Jabir, and he did not consider this hadith very acceptable and said: This hadith was narrated from Sevri, from Abu Ishaq and from Mujahid as a mursal.
821-) According to the narration from Qatada, he said: Enes b. I asked Malik, "How many times did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) perform Hajj?" He said: “He performed one pilgrimage and four umrahs; An Umrah in Dhu al-Qa'da, Hudaybiye Umrah, Umrah together with Hajj, and "Cirane" Umrah when Hunayn distributed his booty. This hadith is hasan authentic. Habban b. Crescent; Abu Habib al-Basri. He is a person worthy of trust and respect. Yahya b. Said al-Kattan said that he was a reliable person.
822-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed four umrahs; Umrah of Hudaybiye, next year's accident, 'Umrah', and finally 'Umrah' with the farewell pilgrim." (İbn Mâce, Menasik: 50) In this regard, Enes, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr and Ibn Umar. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan garib.
823-) Ibn Uyeyna reported this hadith from Amr b. Dinar says from Ikrima that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed four umrahs and does not mention Ibn Abbas. This hadith is also narrated by Said b. Abdurrahman el Mahzumi, Sûfyan b. Through Uyeyna Amr b. He narrated from Dinar, from Ikrima.
824-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) announced his wish to pilgrimage to the people, they all gathered together. When he came to the place called Beyda, he entered the ihram.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) Ibn Omar, Enes and Misver b. Hadith was also narrated from Mahreme. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound.
825-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "You are lying by saying that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered ihram in Bayda. By Allah, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to Talbiye; It started from the place where the tree was located next to the Zulhulaifa mosque.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 34; Muslim, Hajj: 23) This hadith is hasan authentic.
826-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) started to recite talbiyah after the prayer performed for ihram.” (Nesai, Menasik: 56; Muslim, Hajj: 4) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was narrated by Abdusselam b. We do not know that anyone other than Harb narrated it. Scholars consider it mustahab. That is, a person who is going to perform Umrah should start talbiyah after the prayer for ihram.
827-) According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed Hajj alone without performing Umrah.” (Muslim, Hajj: 19; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 23) A hadith was also reported from Jabir and Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic.
828-) Some scholars apply this hadith. According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh): “The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) performed pilgrimage alone. Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman also made pilgrimages alone. Kutayba, Abdullah b. Nafi' es Saig, Ubeydullah b. Omar transmitted it through Nafi' and Ibn Omar. Sevrî says: “One can perform the pilgrimage alone. Hajj and Umrah can also be done together. Or both Hajj and Umrah can be done together with a single ihram, all of them are beautiful.” Shafi'i says the same and adds: “In our opinion, the most beloved thing is only the pilgrimage. Then comes the dividend pilgrimage, and then the breaking pilgrimage.”
829-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “I obeyed your order to perform both Umrah and Hajj.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 35; Muslim, Hajj: 23) In this regard, Ömer and Imran b. A hadith was also narrated from Husayn. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic. Some scholars are practicing with this hadith, and the people of Kufa and others preferred this hadith.
830-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abu Bakr, Umar and Osman performed Umrah and Hajj together. The first person to forbid this was Muawiya." (Nesai, Menasik: 50; Muslim, Hajj: 23)
831-) Muhammed b. Abdullah b. Haris b. According to the narration from Nawfel (radiyallahu anh): Sa'd b. Ebî Vakkâs and Dahhak b. He had heard that the Qays were discussing the issue of performing Hajj and Umrah together. Dahhak b. Kays was saying: “Those who do not know Allah's command do this work.” Upon this, Sa'd said: "O son of my brother, you have spoken ugly". Dahhak: “Umar b. When Khattab said that he had forbidden this work, Sa'd replied: “It was in the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) to perform Hajj and Umrah together; We did it together with Ömer.” (Nesai, Menasik: 50; Muslim, Hajj: 23) This hadith is authentic.
832-) According to what is reported from Ibn Shihâb (radiy-Allâhu anh): Sâlim b. Abdullah, a man from the people of Damascus, Abdullah b. He told Ibn Shihab that he had asked Umar to perform Hajj and Umrah together. Abdullah b. Omer; He said, "It is permissible to perform such hajj and umrah." When the man from Damascus said, "Your father forbade this type of hajj and umrah," Abdullah b. Umar said: "Even though my father forbade it, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed Hajj and Umrah together. In such a case, will my father's order be followed, or will the order of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) be followed? said. When the man from Damascus said, "Of course, the order of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) will be followed", Abdullah b. Umar said: "It is a fact that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed Hajj and Umrah together in this way." (Tirmidhi narrated.) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ali, Osman, Jabir, Sa'd, Asma bint ebî Bakr and Ibn Omar. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others preferred that the temettu pilgrimage could be done. Temettu: It means intending to perform Umrah during the Hajj months. This person stays in Mecca until he makes the pilgrimage, performs both the pilgrimage and sacrifices his sacrifice, and if he cannot find an animal, he must fast for three days in Mecca and seven days when he goes back to his hometown. It is mustahab for the last day of fasting for three days to be the day of Arafa. If he cannot keep these three fasts in the ten days of Dhul-Hijjah, the 2-3-4th day of the feast called Teşrik days. should keep the days. Ibn Umar, Aisha, Malik, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq, who were among the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), also hold this view. Some scholars also say: "One cannot fast on the days of Tasrik": The people of Kufa hold this view. Hadith scholars prefer the Tamettu pilgrimage. Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
833-) It was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the talbiyah of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was as follows: “You are always in command and command, and I followed this command. My God, I always follow you, you have no partner, I always have to obey all your orders… All the praises and blessings are yours, your reign, order and command belong only to you, and you have no partners.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 26; Muslim, Hajj: 3) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ibn Mas'ud, Jabir, Aisha, Ibn Abbas and Abu Huraira. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others practice their practices according to this hadith. Sufyan, Shafii, Ahmed, Ishaq are among them. He says: If a person adds something after talbiyah to make Allah proud, there is no problem inshallah. But in my opinion, it is enough just to recite the talbiyah of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The reason why we say "there is no harm in adding it to talbiyah" is because Ibn Umar both said it exactly and added it.
834-) It is narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh) that: Abdullah b. Umar would bring the talbiyah and say that this is the talbiyah of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and would add: "I followed your order, I obeyed your order, all the benefits are in your hands, all the good things are in your hands. (Bukhari, Hajj: 26; Muslim, Hajj: 3) the hadith is hasan authentic.
835-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked which pilgrimage is more valuable. (Ibn Maje, Menasik: 15)
836-) Sahl b. According to the narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When a Muslim brings the talbiyah, all the stones, trees and earth, all over the earth, bring it together with him, that is, he accompanies that person and becomes a witness." (Ibn Maje, Menasik: 15)
837-) Hasan b. Muhammed ez Zaferani and Abdurrahman b. Esved, Abu Amr al-Basri said: Ubeyde b. Humayd, Umar b. Ghaziyya, Abu Hazim, Sahl b. Sa'd and the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) from Ismail b. They conveyed to us a similar hadith of the drunkard. A hadith has also been narrated from Ibn Umar and Jabir on this subject. The hadith of Abu Bakr is garib. This hadith can only be reported by Ibn Abi Füdeyk, Dahhak b. We know it from the narration he made from Osman. Muhammed b. Munkedir, Abdurrahman b. He did not hear any hadith from Yerbu. Muhammed b. Munkedir, Abdurrahman b. He did not hear any hadith from Yerbu. Muhammed b. Munkedir, Abdurrahman b. Abdurrahman b. He narrated another hadith from Yerbu. Ebû Nuaym et Tahhan, Dırar b. Surad related this hadith from Ibn Abi Füdeyk, Dahhak b. Osman, Muhammed b. From Münkedir, Said b. Abdurrahman b. He narrated from Yerbu and his father, Abu Bakr, and Dirar was wrong in this narration. Ahmed b. I heard from Hasen: Ahmed b. Hanbal says: Whoever is in this hadith, Muhammad b. Munkedir, Ibn Abdurrahman b. If he narrates from Yerbu' and his father, he is definitely wrong. I heard him say: Dırar b. When I reminded him of Surad's narration from Ibn Abi Fudeyk, he said, "He is wrong." I said that others also narrated from Ibn Abi Fudeyk like the narration of Dirar. He said: These are "nothing". The truth is that they narrated that hadith from Ibn Abi Füdeyk, and Said b. They didn't say Abdurrahman. Bukhari, Dirar b. I saw that you considered Sured weak. “Ac” means to bring the Talbiyya loudly. “Sec” means slaughtering a camel.
838-) Sâib b. Hallad (radiyallahu anh) narrated from his father that he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Gabriel came to me and ordered me to order my Companions to raise their voices in violation and talbiyah." (Nesâî, Menasik: 55; İbn Mâce, Menasik: 16) Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Khalid, Abu Huraira and Ibn Abbas. The hadith narrated by Hallad from his father is hasan authentic. Some reported this hadith from Hallad b. From Sâib, Zayd b. They narrated from Khalid that it is not authentic. The authentic narration is Hallad b. It is a narration by Saib from his father. Hallad b. Sâib, Hallâd b. Suveyd al-Ansari.
839-) Zayd b. According to the narration from the father of Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Zayd b. Thabit saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) undressing and making a ghusl in order to enter ihram." (Bukhari, Hajj: 38; Muslim, Hajj: 13) This hadith is hasan garib. Some scholars have considered it mustahab to make a ghusl while entering ihram. Shafii is of the same opinion.
840-) According to the narration from Ibn 'Umar (radiyallahu anh), a man said, "O Messenger of Allah, where do we enter ihram?" The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The people of Madinah; From "Zülhuleyfe", the people of Damascus; From "Cuhfe", Necids; From “Karn”, Yemenis; They enter the ihram from the place called "Yelemlam". (Bukhari, Hajj: 11; Muslim, Hajj: 2) Ibn Abbas, Jabir b. Abdullah, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. Scholars act upon this hadith.
841-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) appointed “Aqiq” as the place of miqat for those in the east of Makkah.” (Abu Dawud, Menasik: 8; Bukhari, Hajj: 11) This hadith is hasan. Muhammed b. Ali; Ebû Cafer, Muhammed b. Ali b. Husayn b. Ali b. Abi Talib.
842-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: A man stood up and said: "O Messenger of Allah, what kind of clothes do you order us to wear in ihram? Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not wear shirts, panties, bathrobes, turbans, and resplendent; let those who do not have shoes should cut the bottom of their loft from the heel. Do not wear clothes dyed with Zaferan and Vers, and the woman with ihram should not cover her face with a veil, nor should she use gloves.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 21; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 31) This hadith is authentic. Scholars make their practices according to this hadith.
843-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "If the person entering ihram cannot find a loincloth, wear underwear, and if he cannot find shoes, let him wear enchanted." (Bukhari, Hajj: 21; Muslim, Hajj: 1)
844-) Qutayba, Hammad b. He narrated a similar hadith from Zayd and Amr. A hadith has also been narrated from Ibn Umar and Jabir on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars act according to this hadith and say that those who cannot find a loincloth should wear panties, and those who cannot find shoes can wear chrysanthemums. Ahmed is of the same opinion. Scholars took the hadith of Ibn Omar as a source and said that those who could not find shoes should wear mussels, but that the bottom of the heels should be cut off. Sûfyan as-Sevri, Shafii and Malik are of this opinion.
845-) Ya'la b. According to the narration from Umayya (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a Bedouin in Ihram with a robe on and ordered him to take it off.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 21; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 31)
846-) Safwan b. Ya'la (radiyallahu anh) narrated a similar hadith from his father. Likewise, Qatade, Haccac b. Ertae and many others from Ata and Ya'la b. They narrated this hadith from Umayya. The authentic narration is Amr b. Dinar's Ibn Jurayc's; From Ata, Safvân b. It is a narration from Ya'la and his father.
847-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Five animals are harmful. A person with ihram can kill them in the forbidden area. These are mice, scorpions, crows, rookies, rabid and predatory dogs.” (Muslim, Hajj: 9; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 39) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ibn Mas'ud, Ibn Omar, Abu Huraira, Abu Said and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic.
848-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person with ihram can kill predatory animals, aggressive rabid dogs, mouse, scorpion, kitten, and crow." (Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 39; İbn Mâce, Menasik: 91) This hadith is hasan. Scholars, acting on this hadith, say: A person with ihram can kill predatory animals. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii is of this opinion. Shafi'i says: A person with ihram can kill any predator that is aggressive to humans and animals.
849-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had blood drawn even though he was in Ihram." (Muslim, Hajj: 11; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 35) The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan.
850-) Nübeyh b. According to the narration from Wahb (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: He wanted to marry the son of Ibn Ma'mer, and Eban b. sent to Osman. I came to him and said: “Your brother Ibn Ma'mer wants to marry his son and he wants you to be present at the wedding.” Thereupon he said: In my opinion, he is nothing but an ignorant Bedouin. Because a person with ihram can neither marry nor be married. Or something close to that. Then he told us a similar hadith from Osman. (Abu Dawud, Menasik: 38) hadiths were also narrated from Abu Rafi' and Maymuna. The hadith of 'Uthman is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) act on this hadith. Umar b. Hattab, Ali b. Abi Talib, Ibn Omar and some of the jurists of the Tabi'i period. Malik, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion and they do not tolerate the marriage of a person with ihram, they say that if they do, the marriage is void.
851-) According to what was narrated from Abu Rafi' (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) married Maymuna while he was without ihram, and I was the bridegroom's head between the two of them.” (Abu Dawud, Menasik: 38) This hadith is hasan authentic; only Hammad b. We know from Zayd's narration from Rabia through Matar al-Warrak as musnad. Malik b. Enes, Rabia, Süleyman b. He tells us that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) married Maymuna while he was without ihram. Malik narrates this hadith as mursal. Likewise, Sulayman b. Bilal narrated from Rabia as a mursal. Yazid b. According to the narration of al-Asam from Maymuna, he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) married me when he was not in ihram." b. Esam; He is the son of Maymuna's sister.
852-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) married Maymuna while he was in Ihram." (Bukhari, Nikah: 31; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 38) hadiths were also reported from Aisha. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Some scholars do their practices with this hadith. Sûfyan es Sevrî and the people of Küfe are among them.
853-) Again, according to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) married Maymuna while he was in Ihram." (Bukhari, Nikah: 31; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 38)
854-) Amr b. According to the narration from Dinar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard from Abu Sha'sa that Ibn Abbas narrated: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) married Maymuna while he was in Ihram." (Bukhari, Nikah: 31; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 38) This hadith is hasan authentic. Sha'sa's name is Jabir b. It is Zayd. There are different opinions about the marriage of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to Maymuna. Because; The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got married on the way to Makkah. Some scholars have expressed different opinions about his marriage to Maymuna because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got married on the way to Mecca. Some scholars married Meymuna before the ihram, and the marriage had emerged while she was in ihram, and after she left the ihram, she entered the marriage in a place called "Sharif" on the road to Mecca. Again, Maymuna died in the place called "Sharif" and was buried in the same place.
855-) Yazid b. According to the narration of Esam (radiy-Allâhu anh) from Maymuna: “The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) married Maymuna when he was not in ihram, and again when he was without ihram, he entered the wedding ceremony. Maymune; He died in the place called “Serif” and we buried him there under the canopy made of bridging.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 38; Nesâî Menasik: 90) hadith is strange. Many people refer to this hadith as Yazid b. It is narrated from Esam as mursal: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) married Maymuna while he was not in ihram".
856-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Land game is lawful for you while in ihram, unless you hunt yourself and hunt for you." (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 40; Nesâî, Menasik: 78) A hadith was also reported from Abu Qatada and Talha on this subject. The hadith of Jabir seems to have been interpreted and interpreted because we do not know if Muttalib heard a hadith from Jabir. Some scholars, by making their practices according to this hadith; They say that if a person with ihram has not hunted for himself or been hunted for himself by someone else, he can eat game meat. Saying that this is the most beautiful and pleasant hadith reported on this subject, he revealed that he made his practices according to this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion.
857-) It was narrated from Abu Qatada (radiyallahu anh). Abu Qatada was with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he was not in ihram but stayed behind on the way to Makkah with a few of his friends who were ihram. In the meantime, he saw a wild donkey and immediately got on his horse to hunt that animal. He asked his friends to give him his whip. This time he took the wild ass and hunted it down. Some of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ate his meat and some did not. When they reached the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), they asked him about it. He also said: "That game meat is a gift from Allah given to you as food." (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 40; Nesai, Menasik: 78)
858-) Qutayba's, Malik, Zayd b. Eslem, Ata b. According to what he told us from Yasar and Abu Qatada, he narrated a similar hadith and this was Zayd b. In Eslem's narration, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) asked, "Do you have anything from the meat of that game?" there is an excess. (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 40; Nesai, Menasik: 78) This hadith is hasan authentic.
859-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Cessâme (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stopped by in a place called Ebwa and Veddan, and he gave a wild donkey to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not accept him and turned him down. Seeing the displeasure on his face, he said: "We would not have returned him to you, but we are in ihram, so we did not accept it." (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 40; Nesai, Menasik: 78) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and from other periods do not like the eating of game meat by a person who is in ihram by following this hadith. He says: According to us, this hadith should be understood as follows: The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) thought that the prey was hunted for him, and he disliked it and rejected it. Some of Zuhri's friends related this hadith from Zuhri and said: "A wild donkey was given to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) as a gift", but this narration is not very solid. In this regard, Ali and Zayd b. A hadith was also narrated from Arkam.
860-) According to what was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We went out for Hajj and Umrah with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), we encountered a herd of locusts, and we were killing them with our walking sticks and whips. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Eat the locusts because it is considered a sea catch." (Ibn Mace, Sayd: 9; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 41) This hadith is strange. We know this hadith only from the narration of Abu Hurayra by Abu al-Muhazzim. Ebûl Mühezzim's name is Yazîd b. He is Sufyan. Shu'ba talked back and forth about this person. Some of the scholars have allowed the person with ihram to hunt and eat locusts. Some say that anyone who hunts and eats grasshoppers must give alms.
861-) According to the narration from Ibn Abi Ammar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Jabir b. To Abdullah, do hyenas count as prey? I asked. He said yes. can i eat it? Said. He said yes. I asked if the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said this, he said yes again." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. al-Madinî says: Yahya b. Said says: Jarir b. Hazim narrated this hadith and said from Jabir, from Omar. The narration of Ibn Jurayj is more authentic. Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion. The deeds of some scholars are based on this hadith. In other words, they say, "Whoever catches a hyena must be punished".
862-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made a ghusl at a place called “Fah” to enter Makkah.” (Tirmidhi has narrated it.) This narration is not preferred, and the authentic narration is the narration from Ibn Omar through Nafi', "He used to wash to enter Mecca". Shafii is of the same opinion and considers it mustahab to make a ghusl while entering Mecca. Abdurrahman b. Zayd b. Eslam is weak in hadith. Ahmed b. Hanbal, Ali al-Madinî and other hadith scholars regarded this person as weak in hadith. We know this hadith only from his narration as merfu.
863-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: When entering Mecca, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered from the upper side and exited from the lower side.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 41; Muslim, Hajj: 37; Ebnu Dâvûd, Menasik: 44) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic.
864-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered Mecca during the daytime." (Nesai, Menasik; 104; Bukhari, Hajj: 39) This hadith is hasan.
865-) According to a narration from Muhajir al-Makki (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Jabir b. He asked Abdullah, "Should one raise his hands when Ka'ba is seen?" He was asked, and he said: "We performed Hajj together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), were we doing such a thing?" (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 45) We know only from Shu'be's narration from Abu Kazaa that hands were raised when seeing the Ka'ba. Abu Kazaa's name: Suveyd b. is hucr.
866-) According to what was reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to Mecca, he entered the mosque first, Hajar-ul-Awsedi invaded (i.e. saluted with his hand) and then entered the Ka'ba. He took his left side and completed the circumambulation by walking quickly three times and walking normally four times. Then he came to Ibrahim's office and said "Take Abraham's station as a prayer place" and prayed two rak'ahs. His rank, Ibrahim, was between him and the Ka'ba. After the two-rak'ah prayer, he came to Hacer-ül Esvede and invaded (greeted with his hand). Then he went to Safa Hill. I think he said: "Safa and Merve are symbols of Allah". (Nesai, Menasik: 137), a hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound. Scholars act upon this hadith.
867-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) walked quickly from Hajar-ul-Aswad to Hagar-ul-Aswad, and then he completed circumambulation with a normal walk four times.” (Nesai, Menasik: 146) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound. Scholars practice with this hadith. says: Whoever abandons fast walking in the first three shafts is disrespectful, nothing is required as atonement. If he has abandoned fast walking in the first three shafts, he does not need to walk fast in the remainder. Scholars say: Those who are Meccan and those who enter ihram in Mecca do not need to walk fast in the first three shafts.
868-) Ebût Tufayl (radiy-Allâhu anh) said in the narration: We were with Ibn Abbas and Muawiya was continuing his circumambulation by invading all corners of the Ka'ba. Thereupon, Ibn Abbas said to him: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had only invaded the corners of Rukni Yamani and Hajar-ul-Aswad. Muawiya said: "There is no corner of the Ka'ba that cannot be invaded." (Bukhari, Hajj: 59; Nesai, Menasik: 130) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Scholars apply this hadith and say: "No other corners of the Ka'ba except Rukn-ü Yemani and Hacer-ül Esved are invaded."
869-) Ya'la b. According to the narration from Umayya's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed circumambulation with his right shoulder bare, even though he had a striped ihram called burd on it.”(Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 49; İbn Mâce, Menasik: 30) This hadith is Thawri's narration from Ibn Jurayc, we know it only through his narration, and this hadith is hasan authentic. Abdulhamid, Cübeyre b. He is the son of Shayba, as reported by Ya'la and his father; Ya'la b. It is Umayye.
870-) Abis b. According to the narration from Rabia (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar b. I saw Khajar al-Aswadi kissing Khajar al-Aswadi and she was saying: "I kiss you and I know that you are only a stone. If I had not seen the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) kiss you, I would never have kissed you." (Bukhari, Hajj: 60; Nesai, Menasik: 148) A hadith was also reported from Abu Bakr and Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith of Omar is hasan authentic.
871-) Zubayr b. According to a narration from Arabi (radiyallahu anh), a man asked Ibn Umar about the invasion of Hajar-ul-Aswad, and he said: I saw me both kissing and invading.” The man said: “What do you say if I'm stuck in a tight place and I'm prevented from approaching it? Ibn Umar would not like these problems and would have been angry: “You leave these questions in Yemen! He said, "I saw the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) invading and kissing him." (Bukhari, Hajj: 60; Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 155) Hammad b. Zeyd, Zübeyr b. Narrated by Arabi. Zubayr b. Arabi is from Kufa, and this is Abu Salama. Enes b. Malik heard hadiths from other Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). One of the scholars, Sufyan as-Sevri and others narrated hadiths from him. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. Again, this hadith has been transmitted to us from Ibn Umar in different ways. Scholars make their practices according to this hadith and consider kissing Hacer-ül Esved mustahab. If it is not possible to approach due to reasons such as stampede, he should invade with his hand and kiss his hand. When he cannot reach Hacer-ül Esved, when he comes to his level, he turns to him and says takbir. Shafii is of this opinion.
872-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to Mecca, he circumambulated the Ka'ba seven times and recited the 125th verse of Surah Al-Baqara; “… Take the place where Abraham (a.s.) worshiped as a place of worship for yourself…” Then he prayed behind his station. Then he invaded the corner where Hacer-ül Esved was located and said: "Let's start from where Allah started." He started to do sa'y from the top of safa and recited the 158th verse of Surah Baccarat: "One of the symbols that Allah has presented to humanity is Safa and Marwa..." (Muslim, Hajj: 19; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 56) This hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars make their practices according to this hadith. Sa'y is first started from the hill of safa. If it is started from Marwa before Sa'fa, it is not permissible. It is necessary to start from Sa'fa. Scholars have put forward different opinions about a person who does not do ta sa'y. Some of them: If a person who leaves Mecca without performing sa'y between Safa and Marwa remembers when he was close to Mecca, he should return and perform sa'y between Safa and Marwa. If he does not remember until he returns to his hometown, it is permissible to make a pilgrimage and he has to sacrifice qurban. Sûfyan es Sevrî is of the same opinion. Scholars say: If he leaves Sa between Safa and Marwa and returns to his country, his pilgrimage is not valid. Shafii is of this opinion and says: It is obligatory to count between Safa and Marwa, "Hajj" is valid only with it.
873-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) circumambulating the Ka'ba and running between Safa and Marwa was to show off the polytheists." (Bukhari, Hajj: 80; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 50) Hadiths were also reported from Aisha, Ibn Omar and Jabir on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Scholars consider sa performed between Safa and Marwa mustahab. If the person cannot run there, they even considered it permissible to walk normally.
874-) Kesir b. According to the narration from Cümhan (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I saw Ibn Omar walking normally between Safa and Marwa and he asked him whether you were not running between Safa and Marwa but were you walking? Said. He said: "If I run, I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) running, if I walk, know well that I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) walking and I am an old person." (Abu Dawud, Menasik: 55; Bukhari, Hajj: 80) This hadith is hasan authentic. Said b. A similar hadith was reported from Ibn Umar in Jubayr.
875-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) circumambulated on his board, and when he came to the corner of Hacer-ül Esved, he pointed as if he was invading.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 61; Nesâî, Menasik: 140; İbn Mâce, Menasik: 34) Hadiths were also reported from Jabir, Abu-t Tufayl and Umm Salama on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Some of the scholars did not like to circumambulate the Ka'ba on a thousand, without any excuse. This is the Shafi'i view.
876-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever circumambulates the Ka'ba fifty times, will be cleansed of his sins as on the day he was born from his mother." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) A hadith was also reported from Anas and Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is strange. I asked Muhammad about this hadith and he said: Indeed, this hadith was narrated as Ibn Abbas' own saying. According to the narration from es Sahtiyani (radiyallahu anh), he said: Said b. They considered Jubayr's son Abdullah superior to his father. His Abdulmalik b. Said b. He has a brother named Jubayr. He also narrated from him.
877-) Jubayr b. According to the narration from Mut'im (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "O sons of Abdumanaf, do not hinder whoever circumambulates this Ka'ba and prays, no matter what time of day or night it is." (Ibn Majah, Ikame: 149) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas and Abu Dharr on this subject. The hadith of Jubayr is hasan authentic. Abdullah b. Abî Necîh reported this hadith from Abdullah b. He narrated from Rebah in the same way. Scholars have put forward different opinions about praying in Mecca (Ka'ba) after the afternoon prayer and after the morning prayer; Some say: There is no harm in praying and circumambulating after the afternoon and the morning. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq are among them, and they use this hadith of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) as evidence. Some of them are: If he tawaf after the afternoon prayer, he does not pray until the sun goes down, and if he does tawaf after the morning prayer, he does not pray until the sun rises. They bring the hadith of Umar as evidence. It is as follows: Umar circumambulated after the morning prayer and left Mecca without praying. When he descended to the place called “Zî Tuva”, he prayed after the sun came up. Sûfyan es Sevrî and Malik b. Enes is of this opinion.
878-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite the two surahs of ikhlas, Kafirun and Kulhuvallahu ahad, in the two-rak'ah tawaf prayer." (Nesai, Menasik, 164; Bukhari, Hajj: 69)
879-) Cafer b. According to the narration from the father of Muhammad (radiy-Allâhu anh): “He loved to recite the suras of Kafirun and Ikhlas in the two-rak'ah tawaf prayer.” (Nesai, Menasik, 164; Bukhari, Hajj: 69) This narration is from Abdulaziz b. It is more authentic than the narration of Imran. Jafar b. The narration of Muhammad from his father is more authentic than the narration of Jabir through his father. Abdulaziz b. Imran is a person who is considered weak in hadith.
880-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Usay'(radiyallahu anh), he said: I asked Ali; "For what order were you sent?" They said: “I was sent with four things; Only Muslims will enter Paradise, the Ka'ba will not be circumambulated naked. After this year, Muslims and polytheists will not meet in the Ka'ba for Hajj and Umrah. The duration of those who do not have a contract and duration is four months.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 67) A hadith was also reported from Abu Huraira on this subject. The hadith of Ali is hasan.
881-) Ibn Umar and Nasr b. Ali (radiyallahu anhu) said: Sufyan b. Uyeyna narrated a similar hadith to us by narrating it from Abu Ishaq. Abu Omar and Nasr b. Ali said: Zayd b. Yusey' they say: This hadith is more authentic. Shu'ba got delusional about this and gave the name "Zayd b. Üseyl says.
882-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) left me with good heart and joy and then returned to me sadly. Then I asked him the reason for his sadness. They said: I entered the Ka'ba, I wish I had not done this, they will want to do it in the future, and I am afraid that I will cause difficulties for them. (Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 79; Nesâî, Menasik: 126) This hadith is hasan authentic.
883-) According to what is reported from Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed in the Ka'ba.” Ibn Abbas says: "He did not pray, but took takbir." (Nesâî, Menasik: 131; Buhârî, Hajj: 52) On this subject, Usâme b. Zayd, Fadl b. Abbas, Osman b. Talha and Shayba b. A hadith was also narrated from Osman. The hadith of Bilal is hasan authentic. Many scholars do their practices with this hadith; They do not see any harm in praying in the Ka'ba. b. Anas says: There is no harm in performing supererogatory prayers inside the Ka'ba, I do not welcome the obligatory prayer in the Ka'ba. He says: There is no harm in performing fard prayers in the Ka'ba. Because the situation of obligatory prayer and supererogatory prayer is the same in terms of wudu and qibla.
884-) Aswad b. According to the narration from Yazid (radiyallahu anh), Ibn Zubayr said to him: Tell me some of the hadiths that Aisha, the mother of the believers, told you. Aswad said: Aisha reported that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to her: "If this society of yours had not just emerged from the period of ignorance, I would have destroyed the Ka'ba and had two doors built." (Bukhari, Hajj: 42; Muslim, Hajj: 70) When Ibn Zubayr became the caliph, he had the Ka'ba demolished and had two doors built. This hadith is hasan authentic.
885-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) narrated that she said: I would very much like to enter the Ka'ba and pray there. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took my hand and led me to the place called Hijr and said: "If you want to enter the Ka'ba, pray in Hijr because it is a part of the Ka'ba. Due to the lack of materials while the tribe was building the Ka'ba, they separated Hijr from the Ka'ba and made it a separate place.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 42; Muslim, Hajj: 70) This hadith is hasan authentic. Alkame b. ebî Alkame; Alkame b. It is Bilal.
886-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Hajar al-Aswad descended from Paradise whiter than milk, and the mistakes of the sons of Adam darkened him." (Bukhari, Hajj: 50; Nesai, Hajj: 145) Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr and Abu Huraira. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic.
887-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr, he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "The rukn and the station are two rubies from the rubies of Paradise that Allah has taken their light from. If he had not received their light, they would have illuminated the gap between east and west.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is Abdullah b. It is narrated from Amr as mawkuf, that is, as his own word. There is also a narration from Anas on the same subject and it is a strange hadith.
888-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Before leaving for Arafat, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led us the noon, afternoon, evening, night and morning prayers in Mina, and then we went to Arafat. walked." (Tirmidhi narrated.) İsmail b. It has been mentioned about Muslim's memory.
889-) Again, according to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made the morning and afternoon in Mina and then walked to Arafat." (Tirmidhi narrated.) Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Zubayr and Anas. As for Miqsam's narration from Ibn Abbas; Ali b. Al-Madinî says, conveying it from Shu'ba through Yahya: The referee heard only five hadiths from Miksem. He counted these five hadiths from Shu'ba, but this hadith was not among those he counted.
890-) According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: O Messenger of Allah! Shall we do something to shade you in Minâ? we said. They said: “No Minâ; It is where the first comer will smash his camel. It is not a residential area.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 86; İbn Mâce, Menasik: 52) This hadith is hasan authentic.
891-) Harisa b. According to the narration from Wahb (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I prayed two rak'ahs in Mina at a time when the people were safe and the most crowded." (Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 76; Bukhari, Hajj: 84) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ibn Mas'ud, Ibn Omar and Anas. Harise b. The hadith of Wahb is hasan sound. It is reported that Mas'ud said: I prayed two rak'ahs together with them in the time of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) in the time of Abu Bakr, in the time of Umar and at the beginning of the caliphate of Osman. Scholars have put forward different views on shortening the prayers in Minâ. Some of them say: "There is no need to shorten the prayer for the people of Makkah, but travelers can shorten it." Said el Kattan, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among those who hold this view. Others say, “There is no harm in shortening their prayers in Mina, too.” Evzâî, Malik, Sûfyan b. Uyeyne, Abdurrahman b. Mahdi is one of those who hold this view.
892-) Yazid b. According to the narration from Shayban (radiyallahu anh), Ibn Mirba' al-Ansari came to us while we were in Arafat. We were in a place that Amr deemed far from the place of foundation and he said: “I am the messenger of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) sent to you, and he said to you, "Wherever you are in your places of worship, stay there because you are inherited from your ancestor Ibrahim (alayhis sallam)." (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 62; Bukhari, Hajj: 87) Ali, Âişe, Cübeyr b. Mut'im and Sharid b. A hadith was also narrated from Suveyd al-Sakafi. The hadith of Ibn Mirba' al-Ansari is hasan authentic. This hadith is only reported by Ibn Uyeyna to Amr b. We know from Dinar with the narration he made. Ibn Mirba's name is Yazid b. He is Mirba' al-Ansari. Only one hadith is known as his narration.
893-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Quraysh and those who follow the religion of Quraysh, who are Ahmesis, that is, Homs. They would make a foundation in Muzdalifah and say that we are the inhabitants of the house of Allah. Others, on the other hand, would make a foundation at Arafat. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 199th verse of Bakara: “Then you go along with the other people who are making waves…” (Bukhari, Hajj: 92; Muslim, Hajj: 46) This hadith is hasan. The meaning of this hadith is: The Meccans did not go out of the harem. The Arafat area was considered outside the harem area. That's why those who said that they were from Mecca would make a foundation in Muzdalifah and say, "We are the inhabitants of the house of Allah". Except for the Meccans, they would make foundations at Arafat. That's why Allah sent down the verse, "You all move forward with other people who are making waves..." to remove this privilege. and Ahmesis means the people of the harem.
894-) Ali b. According to the narration from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made a foundation in Arafat and said: “This is Arafat, this is the place where the foundation will be made. The entire Arafat region is a place of foundation.” Then, when the sun went down, he moved to leave. Usama b. He took Zayd behind his mount. He was pointing at people with his hand, people were shaking in huge crowds, looking at them; “O people, be calm,” he said. Then he came to Muzdalifah, which is called all together, and led the two daily prayers together. In the morning, he came to the place called "Kuzah" and made a foundation there and said: "This is Kuzah and the place where the foundation will be made is the place where the whole of Cem, Muzdalifa, will be made." Then he advanced, when he reached the valley of Muhassir, he whipped his camel and passed through that area quickly and stopped when he passed the valley of Muhassir. Fadl b. He took Abbas on the back of his mount, then the devil came to the grinding place and threw a stone. Then he came to the place of sacrifice and said: “This is the place of sacrifice. The whole of Minâ is the place of sacrifice.” A young girl from the Has'am tribe came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) to get a fatwa and said: "My father was an old man and Hajj was obligatory for him. Is it permissible for me to perform Hajj on his behalf?" she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Make pilgrimage to your father's place". In the meantime, Abbas asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), who turned the neck of Fadl, who was behind his mount, to the back side: "Why did you turn your uncle's neck back?" Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The young man, the girl, and the young man behind his mount, who came to ask for a fatwa, to be sure that Satan could harm him as a result of their looking at each other." Another man came and said, "O Messenger of Allah, what will happen if I have done the circumambulation of Hajj without shaving?" The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Shave it or cut your hair short, it doesn't hurt." Another man came and said, “O Messenger of Allah, what will happen if I sacrificed before stoning the devil? Said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "There is no harm in throwing a stone at the devil." they ordered. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) came to the Ka'ba and circumambulated, then he came to the zamzam well and said: "O sons of Abdulmuttalib, if I knew that people would not put you in trouble for taking zamzam, I would draw water from this well." (Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 62; Ibn Mâce Menasik: 55) A hadith was also reported from Jabir on this subject. The hadith of Ali is hasan authentic and only in this form, Abdurrahman b. Haris b. We know from the narration of Ayyaş. Many people have narrated this hadith in the same way from Thawri. Scholars act on this hadith and say: “They are of the opinion that the noon and afternoon prayers should be performed at noon in Arafat. Scholars, on the other hand, say: "If a person does not join the congregation but prays in his own tent, he will combine two prayers at once, just like the imam does." b. Ali is the son of Abu Talib, the son of Ali's son Hussein. (May Allah's peace be upon them all)
895-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ran his camel quickly through the valley of Muhassir." There is the following redundancy in the narration of Bişrin. “He passed in peace and tranquility in Muzdalifah, and he ordered people to be in peace and quiet.” Nuaym's narration also contains the following redundancy: "The devil ordered the stoners to grind with stones the size of a flick stone, and maybe I won't be able to see you again after this year." He said. (Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 58; Bukhari, Hajj: 93) Usama b. A hadith was also narrated from Zayd. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound.
896-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), Ibn Umar performed two prayers together with one iqama in Muzdalifah and said, "I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) doing the same in the same place." (Bukhari, Hajj: 96; Nesai, Menasik: 190)
897-) Said b. A similar hadith was reported from Jubayr and Ibn Umar. Muhammed b. Bashar narrates that he is from Yahya. Indeed, it is the hadith narrated by Sufyan. In this regard, Ali, Abu Ayyub, Abdullah b. Said, Câbir, Usâme b. A hadith was also narrated from Zayd. The narration of the hadith of Ibn Umar from Sufyan, Ismail b. It is more authentic than the narration of Abi Khalid, and the hadith of Sufyan is sound hasan. Scholars act according to this hadith. Maghrib prayer is not performed before arriving in Muzdalifah. Sûfyan es Sevrî is one of them and says: "If he wishes, he can perform the evening prayer, eat his meal, take a rest, perform the iqama and perform the night prayer." Some scholars say: “He performs the evening and night prayers together with one adhan and two iqamahs in Muzdalifah.” That is, he recites the adhan for the evening prayer, brings the iqama, performs the evening prayer, then brings the iqama again and performs the night prayer. Such is the view of Shafi'i. Ibn Umar and Said b. The hadith of Jubayr is hasan authentic. Seleme bin Küheyl Said b. It is narrated from Jubayr. If Isaac; It was narrated from Ibn Umar through the sons of Malik, Abdullah and Khalid.
898-) Abdurrahman b. According to what is narrated from Ya'mer (radiyallahu anh); While the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was in Arafat, some people from Najid came to him and asked about the pilgrimage. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) appointed a person and declared: "Hajj is Arafat, whoever is supposed to be in Muzdalifah comes to Muzdalifah before the daylight comes and is there, he has made the pilgrimage. It is not considered a sinner to stay in Mina for three days, and two days to return to his hometown is not considered a sinner. Muhammed b. Bashar said: There is the following addition in Yahya's narration. “He commissioned a man for this job and he announced it.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 68; Nesai, Menasik 203)
899-) Again Abdurrahman b. A similar hadith has been narrated from Ya'mer (radiy-Allâhu anh) in terms of meaning, and Ibn ebi Umar, Sûfyan b. Quoting from Uyeyna, he says: "This hadith is the strongest of the hadiths narrated by Sufyan as-Tevri." The practices of the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and those who came after him are based on this hadith. In other words, a person who is not in Arafat before dawn has missed the pilgrimage. Coming after dawn is not considered sufficient for the pilgrimage. If he has done his Umrah, he has to perform Hajj again the next year. Sevri, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. In Shu'be Bukayr b. He narrated a hadith similar to the one reported by Thawri from Ata and said: I heard it from Carud, and he said that he heard it from Waki. After quoting this hadith, Vekî said: "This hadith is the mother of the duties related to pilgrimage."
900-) Urve b. Mudarris b. Evs b. Harise b. According to what was reported from Lam at Tai, he said: "I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) when he was going to pray in Muzdalifah and I said: O Messenger of Allah, I am coming from between the two mountains of the region called Tayyi. I was tired, I was tired myself, I did not leave a mountain that I did not stand on. Will it be my pilgrimage?” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Anyone who has been in Arafat even for a moment, night or day before that, who joins the morning prayer we will perform, is with us until he leaves this place, it is considered to have completed his pilgrimage." (Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 68; Nesai, Menasik: 211) This hadith is hasan authentic. Tefesehu in the hadith: The meaning of the word means duties related to pilgrimage. “Habelün” means sandy land and “Cebelün” means stony places.
901-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent me with our cargo from Muzdalifah at night." (Bukhari, Hajj: 99; Muslim, Hajj: 49) Aisha, Umm Habibe, Esma b. Abi Bakr and Fadl b. A hadith was also narrated from Abbas.
902-) Again, according to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) sent the weakest members of his family from Muzdalifah first and do not stone the devil before the sun rises." (Bukhari, Hajj: 99; Muslim, Hajj: 49) Ibn Abbas' hadith is hasan-saheeh and scholars practice it with this hadith. Most of the scholars do not stone the devil before the sun rises by doing their practices with this hadith. Some scholars have allowed stoning at night. The right thing to do and the practices to be done is to be done according to this hadith; "Satan is not stoned before the sun rises" Sevri and Shafi'i hold this view. The hadith of Ibn Abbas, "He sent me with our burdens" is authentic. It has been reported in different ways. this hadith; Musash narrated from Ata and Ibn Abbas that he said, "The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) sent the weaker family over Muzdalifah", but the evidence of this hadith is wrong. Müşaş was mistaken and Fazl b. He also added Abbas in the year. Ibn Jurayj and others narrate this hadith from Ata and Ibn Abbas, and Fadl b. They do not add Abbas. Mushas; He was from Basra and narrated from him to Shu'b.
903-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stoned the devil at mid-morning on the first day of the Eid-al-Adha, and on other days, after the sun had shifted to the west, that is, in the afternoon.” (Abu Dawud, Hajj: 77; Bukhari, Hajj: 135) This hadith is hasan sahih. Most of the scholars do their practices with this hadith, and after the first day of the feast of sacrifice, they perform the stoning of the devil in the afternoon.
904-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would leave Muzdalifah before the sun rose." (Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 65; Bukhari, Hajj: 101) A hadith was also reported from Omar on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan sound and people of the jahiliyyah period would leave Muzdalifah after the sun came up.
905-) According to the narration from Abu Ishaq (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Amr b. I heard Maymun say: While we were at the foundation in Muzdalifah, Umar b. Khattab said: “The polytheists would not leave Muzdalifah until the sun came up, and they would say, O Mount Saber, when the sun is shining, let's move to Mina. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) did not follow them and set off for Mina before sunrise, and Umar set off before sunrise." (Bukhari, Hajj: 101; Nesai, Menasik: 213) This hadith is hasan authentic.
906-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stoned the devil with stones the size of a slingshot." (Muslim, Hajj: 52; Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 63) In this regard, Süleyman b. Amr b. A hadith was also narrated from Ahvas' mother, and his mother's name is; “It is Umm Jundub al Ezdiyya. In addition, Ibn Abbas, Fadl b. Abbas, Abdurrahman b. Osman et Temîmî and Abdurrahman b. A hadith has also been reported from Muâz. This hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars make their practices with this hadith and accept that the size of the stones is the size of a flick stone or a slingshot.
907-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would stone the devil in the afternoon on other days of the Eid." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan.
908-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), "The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) did the stoning on his bin on the first day of Eid-al-Adha." (Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 66) In this regard, Câbir, Kudame b. Abdullah, Umm Suleiman, Ibn Amr b. A hadith was also reported from al-Ahvas. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Some scholars make their practices according to this hadith. Others preferred stoning devils on foot. According to the narration from Ibn Umar: "The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) carried out the stoning of the devil on foot." In our opinion, the interpretation of these two hadiths is as follows: According to the situation, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said; Sometimes on foot, sometimes on a thousand, the devil stoned him so that his ummah would follow him according to their situation. Scholars have made their practices with both hadiths.
909-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh): "The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) used to walk to the place of stoning, and come by foot." (Abu Dawud: Hajj: 77) This hadith is hasan authentic. Most of the scholars make their practices according to this hadith. Some scholars say the following: “On the first day of the Eid-al-Adha, he can stone on a thousand and on other days by walking. Those who said it this way probably wanted to do what the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) did, because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) only did the grinding on the first day of the sacrifice in a binit. On the first day of the sacrifice, only stones are thrown at the Aqaba cemre.
910-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Abdullah b. When Mas'ud came to the place called Aqaba cemre, he stopped in the middle of the valley, turned towards the Ka'ba and threw seven stones after placing the cemre at the level of his right eyebrow. He uttered takbir every time a stone was thrown and said: I swear by Allah, there is no true god but Him, that in the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), to whom Surah Baqarah was revealed; He threw the stones from here.” (Nesai, Menasik: 226; İbn Mâce, Menasik: 64)
911-) Hennad Vekî' narrated a similar hadith from Mas'udî with this deed. In this regard, Fadl b. Hadith was also narrated from Abbas, Ibn Abbas, Ibn Umar and Jabir. The hadith of Ibn Mas'ud is hasan authentic. Scholars act on this hadith and prefer to throw stones from the middle of the valley and to utter takbir with each stone. Some scholars, on the other hand, allowed him to stone him from where he could, if he was unable to throw it from the middle of the valley.
912-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The work of stoning the devil and the sa'y between Safa and Marwa were ordered only to keep Allah on the agenda." (Abu Dawud, Menasik: 50) This hadith is hasan authentic.
913-) Kudame b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stone the devil on his camel. (Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 66) In this regard, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Hanzala. Kudame b. The hadith of Abdullah is hasan authentic. This hadith is known only in this way. Eymen b. Nabil is a reliable person among hadith scholars.
914-) According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We slaughtered a camel and a cattle in the name of seven people in the year of Hudaybiyya.” (Muslim, Hajj: 50; Nesai, Dehaya: 16) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ibn Omar, Abu Huraira, Aisha and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound. The companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and other scholars of the period practice their practices according to this hadith and are of the opinion that camels and cattle can be sacrificed for up to seven people. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed are among them. There is also a narration from Ibn Abbas that seven cattle can be sacrificed and camels up to ten people. Ishaq is of this opinion and accepts this hadith as evidence. We only know the hadith of Ibn Abbas from one aspect.
915-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey, and the Eid-al-Adha started. Seven people on cattle and camels; We became partners as ten people.” (Nesâî, Dehaya: 15; İbn Mâce, Ezahi: 5) This hadith is hasan garib and was written by Hüseyin b. It is the narration of Waqid.
916-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wore two clogs around the neck of the animal he was going to sacrifice, and slit the right side of the animal in a place called Zulhulayfa to indicate that it was sacrificed, and the blood traces were also spilled. wiped it out.” (Muslim, Hajj: 64; Bukhari, Hajj: 110) Misver b. Hadith was also narrated from Mahreme. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Abu Hassan al A'rec's name is Muslim. Scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods act on this hadith, and they are of the opinion that sacrificial animals should be marked. Such are the views of Sevri, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq. Yusuf b. I heard from Isa, he said he heard it from Wakî, and when he narrated this hadith, he said: Do not compliment your own views on this matter! Because marking the sacrificial animal is sunnah and their words are bidat. I heard Saib say, "We were with Wakî," he said to one of the speakers, according to his views: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) injured the animal to mark the sacrificial camels. Abu Hanifa, on the other hand, says that this is to do "Musle". This issue was reported from Ibrahim Nehai in that man. He says: To mark the sacrificial animal means to make a musle. Upon this statement, Vaki' became very angry and said: I say to you that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) told me, you say that Abraham told me, how did you deserve to be imprisoned until he renounced this promise.
917-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) bought the sacrificial animals from a place called "Kudayd". (Ibn Majah, Menasik: 96) This hadith is strange. Only Yahya b. We know from the narration of Yemen. It is narrated from Nafi' and Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) received the sacrifice from Qudayd, which is more authentic.
918-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: “I knitted the necklaces that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) put on the sacrificial animal with my own hands. He did not go into ihram, nor did he abandon anything in terms of clothing.” (In other words, he only marked the sacrificial animals and did nothing else) (Bukhari, Hajj: 110; Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 96) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars act upon this hadith and say: nothing is haram. Some scholars say the following: "As soon as the person who will perform the pilgrimage puts on a necklace on his victim, all the things that are wâjib for a person with ihram become wâjib for him too."
919-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: “I used to knit all the necklaces that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would put on the victims. He would wear these necklaces until he reached the sheep, but he would not enter the ihram at that time.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 111; Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 95) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others practice their practices with this hadith and are of the opinion that sheep can be put on necklaces.
920-) According to the narration from Naciye al-Huzai (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent a sacrificial animal to the Ka'ba with himself, and he said: O Messenger of Allah, what should I do if this sacrificial animal becomes perishable? Said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Cut it off, dip the necklace on your throat into your blood, then leave it to people, and people will eat it." (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 18; İbn Mâce, Menasik: 101) hadiths were also narrated from Zûeyb and Abu Kabîsa al-Huzaî on the subject. The hadith of Naciye is hasan authentic. Scholars make their practices with this hadith and say about the futile sacrifice: The meat of the sacrifice that will perish is not eaten by the owner or his friends, it is left among people, they eat it and that person is considered to have sacrificed. Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion and say: "If the owner eats the meat of that animal, he pays the price for what he eats." Some scholars also say: "Whatever he eats from the meat of this vain sacrifice, he compensates for the amount he eats."
921-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a man riding a camel and said to him, “Ride on the camel”. The man said: "O Messenger of Allah, this is an animal reserved for sacrifice." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said in the third or fourth time, "Shame on you, shame on the camel." (Ibn Mace, Menasik: 100; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 17) Hadiths were also narrated from Ali, Abu Huraira and Jabir on this subject. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic. Some of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and some of the scholars of the later period allowed the use of sacrificial camels if needed. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars also say, "Don't ride unless you have to".
922-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: "When the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) stoned the devil, he cut his sacrifice, then extended the right side of his head to the barber to shave, gave the cut hair to Abu Talha, then shaved the left side of it and shaved it off. Distribute your hair among the Muslims”. (Bukhari, Hajj: 128; Muslim, Hajj: 56)
923-) A similar hadith was narrated from Ibn Abi Omar, Sufyan and Hisham. This hadith is hasan authentic.
924-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had his hair cut, some of the Companions cut their hair, and some of them shortened their hair. Ibn Umar says: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said once or twice, "May Allah have mercy on those who cut their hair," then said, "And those who cut it." (Bukhari, Hajj: 128; Muslim, Hajj: 55) Ibn Abbas, Ibn Ummul Husayn, Mearib, Abu Said, Abu Meryem, Hubshi b. Hadith was also narrated from Junade and Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars do their practices with this hadith and preferred to shave the head. However, they told the person who made the abbreviation that it was permissible and sufficient. Sûfyan as-Sevri, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion.
925-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade women to have their hair cut." (Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 78) There is complexity in the hadith of Ali. This hadith was written by Hammad b. It is also reported from Salama, Qatada and Aisha that "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade women from shaving their hair". Scholars do their practices according to this hadith and prefer women to shorten their hair rather than shave.
926-) Muhammed b. Bashar (radiy-Allâhu anh) quoted a similar hadith from Abu Dâvûd, Hemmâm, Khilas and did not mention “Ali” in the narration.
927-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) if I shaved without sacrificing. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said; They said, "Cut your victim, there is no harm". “I sacrificed before I stoned the devil,” another asked. They said, "There is no harm in stoneing the devil." (Ebû Dâvûd, Hajj: 87; İbn Mâce, Menasik: 74) On this subject, Ali, Câbir, İbn Abbas, İbn Ömer, Üsâme b. A hadith was also narrated from Sharik. Abdullah b. The hadith of Amr is hasan authentic. Most of the scholars do their practices with this hadith, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars say, "If a person performs one of the Hajj rituals before the other, he must sacrifice an animal."
928-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “I used to scent the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with the scent of musk before he entered the ihram and before I took off the ihram and circumambulated the Kaaba.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 18; Muslim, Hajj: 7) hadiths were also reported from Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. According to this hadith, the views and practices of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and the scholars of the later period are based on this hadith, and they say: "If a person with ihram cuts his sacrifice on the first day of Eid, shaves his hair or shortens it, everything will be permissible except approaching his wife. ” Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq hold this view. Umar b. It is reported that Khattab said: "Everything is permissible for a person who performs these duties, except women and perfumes." This is the view of some of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and scholars of later periods. The people of Küfe are of the same opinion.
929-) Fadl b. According to the narration from Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took me on the back of his horse from Muzdalifah to Minâ, and continued to make talbii on the first day of Eid until the devil stoned him.” (Muslim, Hajj: 67; Nesai, Menasik: 229) hadiths were also reported from Ali, Ibn Mas'ud and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Fadl is hasan authentic. Scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods do their practices according to this hadith. Pilgrims continue talbiyah until the devil stone them. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq hold this view.
930-) Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) states the following in the hadith he narrated as a merfu: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to continue talbiyah during Umrah until Hajar-ul-Aswadi invaded.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 28) In this regard, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Most scholars, acting on this hadith, are of the opinion that the person who performs Umrah should continue talbiyah until Hacer-ül Esvedi invades. Scholars, on the other hand, say that as soon as the person performing the Umrah enters the Ihram, he starts talbiyah and continues along the road until the Meccan houses appear. The application is with this hadith and they are of the same opinion in Sufyan as-Sevri, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq.
931-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas and Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anhuma): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to delay the circumambulation until the night.” (Ibn Majah, Menasik: 77) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars have allowed the visiting circumambulation to be postponed to the night. Some of them think that it should be held on the first day of the feast. Some scholars have also expanded by saying that it can be done on all Eid-al-Adha days.
932-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman used to go down to the Batha valley." (Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 44; Bukhari, Hajj: 147) Hadith was also reported from Aisha, Abu Rafi' and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Ibn Umar is sahih hasan garib. This hadith is only attributed to Abdurrezzak's, Ubeydullah b. We know from Omar's narration. Some scholars are of the opinion that descending to Batha is mustahab, not wâjib. They say whoever wants to get down. Shafi'i says: Descending to batha is not a part of pilgrimage. It is a place where the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stayed.
933-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: “Going down to the hasbe is not an act of worship. It is a place where the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) stayed.” Hasbe, Batha, Ebtah, Mahsab are different names of this valley. (Bukhari, Hajj, 147; Muslim, Hajj: 58) Tahsîb; It means to descend to Ebtah. This hadith is hasan authentic.
934-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stopped in Ebtah because it was easier to get to Medina.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 147) This hadith is hasan authentic.
935-) Ibn Abi Omar, Sufyan and Hisham b. He narrated a similar hadith from Urwa.
936-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdillah (radiyallahu anh), a woman handed her child to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: "O Messenger of Allah! Could it be a pilgrimage for this child too? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Yes, you also have a reward". (Ibn Mace, Menasik: 11; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 7) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith of Jabir is strange.
937-) Sâib b. According to the narration from Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “My father made me perform Hajj together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) during the Farewell pilgrimage and I was seven years old at that time.” (Ibn Mace, Menasik: 11; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 7) This hadith is hasan authentic.
938-) Jabir b. From Abdillah (radiyallahu anh) to Muhammad b. A similar hadith has been reported. Muhammed b. This hadith is narrated from Munkadir as mursal. Scholars are unanimous in the opinion that a child who performs Hajj at a young age should perform Hajj when he grows up. Hajj, which is the order of Islam, will not be fulfilled. Likewise, if a slave performs a pilgrimage during his enslavement and is later freed, if he finds the opportunity to perform a pilgrimage in the future, he must do so. The pilgrimage he made during his slavery does not replace the pilgrimage, which will be fard. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq also hold this view.
939-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When we made pilgrimage with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), we used to perform talbiyah instead of women and stone devils instead of children.” (Ibn Mace, Menasik: 68) This hadith is strange, we know it only in this way. Scholars have agreed that no one else can replace a woman with talbiyah. A woman should bring talbi by herself, it is makruh to say it loudly.
940-) Fadl b. According to the narration from Abbas (radiyallahu anh), a woman from the Has'am tribe; “O Messenger of Allah! Hajj became obligatory for my father, he is too old and cannot travel on a horseback ride.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said; They said, "Make the pilgrimage instead." (Bukhari Cezaus Sayd: 34; Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 10) Ali, Bureyde, Husayn b. Avf, Ebû Rezîn el Ukaylî, Sevde b. Hadith was also narrated from Zam'a and Ibn Abbas. Fadl b. The hadith of Abbas is hasan authentic. Ibn Abbas Husayn b. A similar narration was reported from Avf el Muzeni. Likewise, from Ibn Abbas, Sinan b. It was also narrated from Abdillah al-Cuheni and his aunt. It is also narrated only from Ibn Abbas. I asked Muhammad about the narrations and he said: “The most authentic narration on this subject is Fadl b. It is a narration from Abbas. Perhaps Ibn 'Abbas heard this hadith from Fadl and others, then narrated it as a mursal and did not say what he heard." Many authentic hadiths have been narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) on this subject. The companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later scholars act on this hadith. Sevri Ibn al-Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion and are of the opinion that pilgrimage can be made on behalf of a deceased person. says: "If he wills to perform the pilgrimage on his behalf, someone else can perform the pilgrimage on behalf of the deceased." Scholars, on the other hand, say: “Hajj can also be done on behalf of an elderly person who is unable to perform Hajj”, which is the opinion of Ibn al-Mubarak and Shafii.
941-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from the father of Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh): “A woman came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and my mother died without making Hajj, can I perform Hajj instead of her? She asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Yes, perform Hajj instead of him". (Bukhari, Cezaus Sayd: 33; Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 9) the hadith is authentic.
942-) According to the narration from Abu Rezîn al-Ukaylî, he came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said, "O Messenger of Allah! My father is very old, he cannot afford the pilgrimage and umrah journey," he said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Perform Hajj and Umrah instead of your father". (Ibn Mace, Menasik: 10; Bukhari, Cezaüs Sayd: 34) This hadith is hasan authentic. The mention of Umrah in this hadith is to show that it is possible to perform Umrah on behalf of someone else. Rezîn el Ukaylî's name is Lakît b. It is Âmir.
943-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), is it wajib to perform Umrah for the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)? He was asked, The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "No, but performing umrah is a valuable and virtuous worship." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars say that umrah is not wâjib. Hajj and umrah were called two pilgrimages. “Haccul Akbar” (Great Hajj) for Eid-al-Adha and “Haccul Asğar” (Small Hajj) for Umrah says: Performing Umrah is one of the sunnahs of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). We do not know of any evidence that gives permission to abandon Umrah. There is no solid narration that it is supererogatory worship. The narration from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) that there is supererogatory worship is weak, and such narrations cannot be put forward as evidence. The narration of Ibn Abbas that he considered performing Umrah wâjib has reached us. All these words are the words of Shafi'i.
944-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Umrah has entered the months of pilgrimage until the Day of Judgment." (Muslim, Hajj: 31; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 23) Suraka b. Cu'sum, Câbir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan. The meaning of this hadith is: "There is no harm in performing Umrah during the Hajj months". Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq interpret the hadith in this way. The meaning of the hadith is as follows: People of the Ignorance period did not perform umrah during the pilgrimage months. When Islam came, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) authorized it and said, “Umrah has entered the months of pilgrimage until the Day of Judgment.” In other words, there is no harm in performing Umrah during the Hajj months. The months of Hajj are ten days before Shawwal, Dhul-Qada and Dhul-Hijjah. A person who is going to perform Hajj must enter Ihram during the months of Hajj. The forbidden months are: Recep, Zilkada, Dhul-Hijjah and Muharram. Many scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods say so.
945-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Umrah is expiation for the sins committed until the second Umrah. The reward for the accepted pilgrimage is only Paradise.” (Bukhari, Umrah: 1; Muslim, Hajj: 79) This hadith is hasan.
946-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Ebî Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abdurrahman b. He ordered Abi Bakr to put Aisha (radiyallahu anha) into Ihram in Tan'im and have her perform Umrah.” (Bukhari, Umrah: 6; Muslim, Hajj: 17) (This type of Umrah is valid for menstruating women. It has no place in the Sunnah of the Sallam.) This hadith is hasan.
947-) According to the narration from Muharrish al-Ka'bî (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) left Ji'rane at night intending to perform Umrah. He entered Mecca at night and performed his umrah. He left Mecca at night in Ci'rane and as if he had spent the night there, he left the Batni Serif region the next day when the sun shifted to the west. way; He went from Batni Serif by following the road to Muzdalifah, so his Umrah was kept secret.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 79; Nesai, Menasik: 104) This hadith is strange. We do not know any other narration of Muharrish al-Ka'bî other than this hadith. In this narration, it is said that it may have come by a mawsul way.
948-) According to the narration from Urwa (radiyallahu anh), he said: He was asked, "In which month did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) perform Umrah?" He replied in the month of Rajab. Upon this, Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) said: “Every time the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed an Umrah, Ibn Umar was with him. He never performed Umrah in the month of Rajab.” (Ibn Majah, Menasik: 47) This hadith is strange. I heard Muhammad say: Habib b. ebî Sabit Urve b. He did not hear any hadith from Zubayr.
949-) It was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed four Umrahs, one of which was in the month of Rajab.” (Bukhari, Umrah: 3; Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 47) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
950-) Barâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed Umrah in the month of Dhul-Allah.” (Bukhari, Umrah: 3; Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 46) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject.
951-) According to the narration from Umm Ma'qil (radiyallahu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Umrah in the month of Ramadan is worth pilgrimage." In other words, it gives rewards like hajj. (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 79; İbn Mâce, Menasik: 45) Ibn Abbas, Jabir, Ebû Hüreyre, Enes and Vehb b. Hadith was also narrated from Hanbash. Wahb b. to Hanbeş; Herem b. It is called Hanbash. and Jabir's narrations by Sha'bi and Vehb b. They do it by saying from Hanbeş. Dâvûd el Evdî: Şa'bi and Harem b. They narrate it by saying from Hanbash. But the truth is: “Wahb b. Hanbash”. The hadith of ma'qil is hasan garib in this form. and Ishaq say: It has been proven from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) that umrah in Ramadan earns a reward equal to a pilgrimage. He says: The meaning of this hadith should be understood as follows. Narrated by our Prophet; It should be understood as the hadith "Whoever reads the chapter of ikhlas, it will be as if he has read one third of the Qur'an". In other words, the entire Qur'an will not be recited by reciting three sincerity, and performing umrah in Ramadan is not considered to be a pilgrimage.
952-) According to the narration from Ikrima (radiyallahu anh), he said: Haccac b. Amr narrated to us that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to us: "A person who has a broken organ, becomes injured or becomes ill and cannot perform Hajj that year must perform Hajj the next year." Ikrima said: I asked Ibn Abbas and Abu Huraira about this hadith, and one of the narrators, Haccac es Savvaf, told the truth. they said. (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 43; İbn Mâce, Menasik: 85)
953-) Ishaq b. Mansur, Muhammed b. Abdullah al-Ansari narrated a similar hadith from Hajjaj to us and said: Haccac b. Amr said, "I heard this hadith from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him)". This hadith is hasan authentic. Many people have narrated this hadith in this way or similar to it from "Hajjaj es Savvaf". Ma'mer and Muawiya b. Sallam reported this hadith from Yahya b. Abî Kathir, from İkrime, Abdullah b. From Rafi, Haccac b. Narrated by Amr. In the narration of Haccac es Savvaf, Abdullah b. He did not mention Rafi. Hajjaj is a reliable and memory person among hadith scholars. I heard from Muhammad Ma'mer and Muawiya b. Sallam's narrations are more authentic.
954-) Abd b. Humayd, Abdurrezzak from Ma'mer, Yahya b. Abî Katîr, Abdullah b. From Rafi, Haccac b. He narrated a similar hadith from Amr to us.
955-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), Zubayr's daughter Dubaa came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “O Messenger of Allah! I want to perform Hajj, can I stipulate it with my intention? Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said; “Yes,” he said. Dubaa: When I say "How should I say it"; They said, "Labbeyk, my God, labbayk, starting from where I am until the place and time you will detain me." (Muslim, Hajj: 15; Nesai, Menasik: 60) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Jabir, Esma binti ebî Bekir and Aisha. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Some of the scholars do their practices with this hadith. They are of the opinion that it is possible to perform Hajj on a conditional basis and they say: If the condition is fulfilled and an illness or disability occurs, he can leave Ihram at that moment. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq hold this view. Scholars, on the other hand, say that conditional pilgrimage cannot be made, and they accepted that this person is like a regular pilgrim, by saying, "Even if there is a condition, he cannot get out of his ihram".
956-) According to the narration from the father of Sālim (radiy-Allāhu anh), Sālim; He did not like to stipulate conditions for pilgrimage and would say: "Is not the Sunnah of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) sufficient for you? (In other words, he showed that he did not know about such a hadith by saying that he did it.) (Nesai, Menasik: 59; Muslim, Hajj: 15) This hadith is hasan authentic.
957-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), it was reported to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) that Huyay's daughter Safiyya was menstruating during the days of Mina. Will it make us wait in Mecca? said. They said, "He had performed the circumambulation of visiting." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Then there is no problem". (Muslim, Hajj: 67; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 80) Hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar and Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. Scholars, their practices according to this hadith and; If a woman sees her menstruation after performing the circumambulation, she can leave Mecca and she does not need anything. Sevri, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion.
958-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Whoever makes pilgrimage, his last duty is to circumambulate the Ka'ba, but women who are menstruating on those days are excluded. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) allowed them to leave Mecca without making the farewell circumambulation." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan. Scholars made their practices according to this hadith.
959-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: “I had menstruation on the days of Hajj. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered me to do all the necessary things except circumambulating the Ka'ba." (Bukhari, Hayz: 8; Muslim, Hajj: 67) Scholars do their practices with this hadith, that is: "A menstruating woman fulfills all the requirements of hajj except circumambulation." The hadith was also narrated from Aisha in the same way.
960-) Ziyâd b. Eyyub, Marwan b. Shuca' al-Jazari; Husayf, Ikrima, Mujahid, Ata and Ibn Abbas related the following hadith to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and quoted us the following hadith: "A woman giving birth and menstruating enters Ihram by making a ghusl, does all the things to do with the pilgrimage, only until she is cleansed of the Ka'ba. He cannot circumambulate. This hadith is strange in this respect.
961-) Haris b. Abdullah b. According to the narration from Aws (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "Whoever performs Hajj and Umrah, his last duty will be to circumambulate the Baytullah." Thereupon, Umar said: "Your hands should be broken with what you did, you heard this from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) but did not inform us?" (Abu Dawud, Menasik: 85; Muslim, Hajj: 67) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. Haris b. Abdullah b. The hadith of aws is strange. Many people use this hadith as Hajjaj b. They narrated from Ertae as here. In some of the narrations, there were narrations contrary to Hajjaj.
962-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made Hajj with an ihram and an intention, and performed only one circumambulation for Hajj and Umrah.” (Nesai, Menasik: 144; Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 53) hadiths were also reported from Ibn Omar and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound. Some scholars from the Companions and their followers apply this hadith and say: A person who breaks the pilgrimage makes one circumambulation for his umrah and pilgrimage. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq hold this view. Some scholars from the period of the Companions and the Tabi'in say: "Two circumambulation and two sa'y". Such is the view of Sufyan as-Sevri and the people of Kufa.
963-) According to a narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever intends to perform Hajj and Umrah with an intention and enters Ihram, one circumambulation for both of them until he leaves Ihram. and one sa'y is enough.” (Ibn Mace, Menasik: 39; Bukhari, Hajj: 77) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Many people refer to this hadith as Ubeydullah b. They narrate it from Umar and they do not convey the proof of the hadith to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). That narration is more authentic.
964-) Ala b. According to what was narrated from Hadrami (radiyallahu anh) as a merfu: (Before the conquest of Mecca) "People who migrated to Medina and made pilgrimages can stay in Mecca for three days after completing their pilgrimage." (Muslim, Hajj: 81) This hadith is hasan authentic. It was narrated as merfu in another way with the saned.
965-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to say takbeer three times when he came back from a war, pilgrimage or Umrah and went to a mountainside or a hill and prayed as follows: "Allah There is no true god but He alone, He has no partner, His property and sovereignty belong to Him. All perfect praise is due to him, and he is all-powerful. We always turn to Allah, repent, and always do our servitude to Him. Travelers, those who prostrate! We are the ones who praise our Lord. God is true to His promise and fulfills it. He is the one who helps his servant and destroys all the hordes of disbelief by himself.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 132; Muslim, Hajj: 76) hadiths were also reported from Bara, Anas and Jabir. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic.
966-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We were on a journey with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and while he was in Ihram, he saw a man who fell from a camel and died by breaking his neck and said: “Wash him with water and sidr. Shroud him with his ihram, which is in two parts, and do not cover his head, for he will be resurrected on the Day of Judgment with ihram and talbiyah.” (Bukhari, Cezaus Sayd: 31; Muslim, Hajj: 14) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars do their practices with this hadith. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars say: When a person with ihram dies, the validity of ihram will not be valid.
967-) Nübeyh b. According to the narration from Wahb (radiyallahu anh), Umar b. Ubeydullah b. While Ma'mer was in Ihram, he got sick from his eyes and Eban b. He asked Osman: He recommended patience (like rubbing) used in the treatment of painful eyes and Osman b. Affan reported this situation to us from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered those who were disturbed by his sight to "be patient". (Muslim, Hajj: 12) This hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars do their practice with this hadith, and they see no harm in treating the ihram with any medicine that does not contain a fragrance.
968-) Ka'b b. According to the narration from Ujra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stopped by him while he was in ihram in Hudaybiya, while he was making a fire under the pot and the lice were falling on his face, and said, “Doesn't the pests on your head hurt you? Ka'b said, "Yes." Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said; “Shave, give a farak alms to six poor people. -Farak is a unit of measure that takes three measures of grain.- “Or fast for three days or sacrifice a sacrifice.” Ibn Abi Nüceyh narrated: "Kill a sheep". (Muslim, Hajj: 10; Ibn Majah, Menasik: 86) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the period of the Companions and the Tabi'in make their practices according to this hadith. If he shaves in ihram or wears clothes that should not be worn while wearing ihram, or if a perfume is applied; As it is narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), kaffarah is necessary.
969-) Beddah b. According to the narration from the father of Adıy (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) allowed the shepherds to stone the devil one day and stay with their animals the next day.” (Abu Dâvûd, Menasik: 77; Nesai, Menasik: 225) Ibn Uyeyna also narrated it in the same way. Malik b. On the other hand, Enes, Abdullah b. Ebî Bakr, from his father, Ebul Beddah b. Asim b. He narrates from Adiyy and his father that Malik's narration is more authentic. Some of the scholars allowed the shepherds to stone them one day and leave them for another day. Shafi'i is one of them.
970-) Asim b. According to a narration from Adiyy's (radiyallahu anh) father, he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) allowed the shepherds to stop spending the night in Mina and stone the devil on the first day of the Eid, and bring the following stones together on a different day." says: Abdullah b. I think Abi Bakr said: “On the first day they stone, on the day of nephr they stone the others.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 77; Nesai, Menasik: 225) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ibn Uyeyna's Abdullah b. It is more authentic than the narration from Abu Bakr.
971-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), Ali came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) from Yemen and said, with what intention did you enter the ihram? Ali said: "I entered Ihram with the same intention that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered ihram." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If I had not brought my sacrifice with me, I would have taken it out of Ihram." (Bukhari, Hajj: 32; Muslim, Hajj: 34) This hadith is hasan sahih garib in this respect.
972-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: What day is the Hajjul Akbar to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)? I asked; “It is the first day of the feast,” they said. (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
973-) Again, according to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The day of Hajj al-Akbar is the first day of Eid al-Adha." (Nesai, Menasik: 134) Ali quoted this hadith not as a merfu but as his own word, which is more authentic than the previous one. Ibn Uyeyna's narration of this hadith as mehkuf, Muhammad b. It is more authentic than the narration of Ishaq as a merfu. Many hadith memorizers have transferred this hadith to us from Abu Ishaq, Haris, and Ali as mawkuf. Also from Shu'ba Abu Ishaq, Abdullah b. They narrated from Murra, Haris and Ali as mawkuf.
974-) Ubayd b. According to the narration from the father of Umayr (radiyallahu anh): Ibn Omar; When he came to the corners of the Ka'ba, called Hacer-ül Esved and Rükn-ü Yemani, he made an extreme effort to touch them. Then I said, O Abu Abdurrahman; Why are you trying too hard to touch two rukns from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)? Ömer said: If I am doing that, know this well; I heard from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him); He said, "To touch them is atonement for sins." Again, I heard from him: "Whoever circumambulates the Ka'ba seven times and does it well, he will receive rewards as if he had freed a slave." Again, I heard him say: "Whoever takes a step while circumambulating the Ka'ba, Allah erases a sin and writes a good deed." (Nesai, Menasik: 149) Hammad b. Zayd, Ata b. From Saib, Ibn Ubayd b. It was narrated from Umayr in a similar way from Ibn Umar. But in this narration, he did not say "from his father". This hadith is hasan.
975-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Tawafing around the Ka'ba is like praying, but you can talk in circumambulation. Whoever is going to talk during circumambulation should speak good things.” (Nesâî, Menasik: 135; Buhârî, Hajj: 65) This hadith was narrated by Ibn Tavus and others, as sourced from Taus and Ibn Abbas, and only Ata b. We know it as merfu with the narration of Saib. The majority of scholars do their practice with this hadith and they consider it mustahab not to speak at the time of circumambulation unless there is a necessity, but to talk about subjects such as remembering Allah and learning knowledge.
976-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about Hajar-ul-Aswad: “Allah will bring Hagar-ul-Aswad to the place of judgment on the Day of Judgment, and he will have two eyes and will see with them. He will have a language and will speak to him and will testify against those who invade him.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan.
977-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): “When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was in Ihram, he used to be lubricated with olive oil that did not contain any fragrance.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.) It means that a fragrance has been mixed.
978-) It was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “Aisha kept zamzam water with her on pilgrimage days and informed that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) carried it with her.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. We only know this way.
979-) Abdulaziz b. According to the narration from Rüfey (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Enes b. I told Malik to tell me about some of the things you heard and saw from the Messenger of Allah. “Where did he perform the noon prayer on the eighth day of Dhul-Hijjah? He said: “In Minâ. Where did he perform the afternoon prayer on the day of his dispersal from Mina? Said. He said in “Ebtah” and then continued: “Do as the official who is going to carry out the pilgrimage duties does.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 58; Muslim, Hajj: 12) This hadith is hasan authentic. Sevrî from İshâk b. It is also strange as the narration of Yusuf al-Ezrak.
980-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a thorn stings on a believer or if a greater misfortune befalls him, then Allah will erase that servant's mistake and change his rank. raises.” (Muslim, a Sıla: 14; Bukhari, Marda: 1) Sa'd b. Ebi Vakkas, Ebû Ubeyde b. Cerrâh, Ebû Hüreyre, Ebû Ümame, Ebû Said, Enes, Abdullah b. Amr, Esed b. Kürz, Câbir b. Abdillah, Abdurrahman b. Hadith was also narrated from Azhar and Abu Musa. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic.
981-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: some part wipes away their sins.” (Bukhari, Merda: 1; Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 14) This hadith is hasan in this regard. I heard from Carud, he was saying, conveying from Veki: Only with this hadith has it been heard that grieving is expiation for sins. Some people refer to this hadith as Ata b. They also narrated from Yasar and Abu Huraira.
982-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When a Muslim visits his Muslim brother who is sick, it means that he is picking fruit in the gardens of Paradise.” (Bukhari, Merda: 4) Hadith has also been narrated from Ali, Abu Musa, Bara, Abu Huraira, Enes and Jabir. The hadith of Sawban is hasan sound. Abu Gıfar and Asim al-Ahvel narrated this hadith similarly from Abu Qilaba, Abul Ash'as, Abu Asma and Sevban. I heard him say: Whoever narrates this hadith from Abu Asma and Abu Asma, that narration is more authentic. He says: All the other narrations of Abu Qilaba other than this hadith are from Abu Asma, I think this hadith is from Abu Asma and Abu Asma, I think he also narrated this hadith from Abu Asma and Abu Asma.
983-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), a similar hadith was narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and there is the following addition: “What is the vengeance of Paradise?” They said: "It means to gather the fruits of Paradise." (Bukhari, Marda: 4)
984-) Ahmed b. Abde ed Dabbi, Hammad b. Zayd, Eyyub, Abu Qalaba, Abu Asma and Sevban have narrated a similar hadith of Khalid to us and did not mention the name "Abul Ash'as". Some of them were Hammad b. They narrate it as Zayd and bring the hadith up to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam).
985-) According to the narration from the father of Suveyr (radiyallahu anh), Ali took my hand and said let's visit my son Hussein for sickness together. We also saw that Abu Musa said to Ali (radiyallahu anh) there: "O Abu Musa, did you come for a regular visit or did you come to visit the sick?" Abu Musa said: “No, I came to visit the sick; Ali said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he said: "If a Muslim visits another Muslim in the morning when he gets sick, seventy thousand angels pray for that person's forgiveness until the evening. If he visits in the evening, seventy thousand angels pray for that person's forgiveness until morning, and there are fruits prepared for that person in Paradise.” (Abu Dawud, Cenaiz: 3; Ibn Mâce, Cenaiz: 2) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was narrated from Ali in a different way, and some narrators did not make it merfu by narrating it as mawkuf. Abu Fahite's name is Said b. It is Ilâka.
986-) Harise b. According to the narration from Mudarrib (radiyallahu anh), he said: “I arrived next to Habbab, who had his stomach cauterized with fire. I do not know of any of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) who faced as much trouble and distress as I did. At the time of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him), I could not find a dirham. Now I have forty thousand dirhams in a corner of my house. Had the Messenger of Allah not forbade us or wishing for death; I would like to die because of my sufferings.” (Bukhari, Marda: 19; Muslim, Zikr Dua: 4) Hadith was also reported from Anas, Abu Huraira and Jabir on this subject. The hadith of Habbab is hasan sound. Enes b. It is also narrated from Malik as follows: “Let not one of you wish to die because of a trouble that befell him, and my God, if it is good for me to live, let me live; If death is good for me, kill me”.
987-) Likewise, Ali b. Hucr (radiyallahu anh); Ismail b. Ibrahim and Abdulaziz b. Suheyb and Enes b. A similar hadith has been reported from Malik. This hadith is hasan authentic.
988-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), Jibril came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said, “O Muhammad, are you sick? Do you have a complaint? said. When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said “Yes”; Jibril: “I want you to be protected from everything that harms you, from every person and from every envious eye, in the name of Allah. Again, in the name of Allah, I ask you to be protected. May God heal you," he prayed, thus teaching him how to pray. (Ibn Majah, Medicine: 36)
989-) Abdulaziz b. According to the narration from Suheyb (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I and Sabit went to Enes. Thabit said: "O Abu Hamza, I am a little disturbed." Thereupon, Anas said: "Shall I recite it to you as the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) read it? He said “Yes” in Sabit. Thereupon, Enes prayed: "My God, O Lord of people, the curer of diseases and troubles, give healing, you are the one who heals, there is no cure other than you, such a cure that it will not leave any disease". (Bukhari, Marda: 20; Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 19) A hadith was also reported from Anas and Aisha on this subject. The hadith of Abu Said is hasan authentic. I asked Abu Zur'a about this hadith: Is Abdulaziz's narration from Abu Nadre and Abu Said or Abdulaziz's narration from Anas more authentic? He said: Both are true. this hadith: Abdussamed b. Abdulvaris' father, Abdulaziz b. From Suheyb, Abu Nadre, Abu Said, Abdulaziz b. It is also narrated from Suheyb and Enes.
990-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is not permissible for a person who has enough wealth to make a will to spend even two nights without his written will.” (Bukhari, Vesaya: 1; Muslim, Vasiyya: 1) The hadith of Umar is hasan sound.
991-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) came to visit me when he was sick and said: "Do you have a will regarding your property?" "I said yes. “How much?” he commanded. I said: "I have devoted all my property in the way of Allah". This time: “What have you left for your children?” he commanded. I said: "They are rich and abundant". He said: "Make a will for one tenth". Sa'd says: “In the end, I insisted on bequeathing more on this issue; They said, "Bequeath a third, a third is a lot". (Muslim, Wasiyya: 1; Bukhari, Testament: 3) Abdurrahman says: We find it mustahab to decrease it below one-third because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said that a third is too much. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith of Sa'd is hasan authentic. It has been narrated in different ways; It has also been narrated as "One-third is more" or "One-third is greater". Scholars do their practice with this hadith, and they are of the opinion that more than a third of it should not be willed. They consider it mustahab for it to go below one-third. “Sufyan as-Tevri says: Our scholars consider it mustahab to make a fifth will without decreasing it to a quarter, or they have welcomed a fourth will without reaching a third. Whoever bequeaths one third of his property does not leave anything for another will. However, it is permissible to make a one-third will.
992-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “To your patients who are about to die; Encourage them to say "Lailahe illallah"." (Muslim, Cenaiz: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 15) In this regard, Abu Huraira, Umm Salama, Aisha, Jabir and Talha b. A hadith was also reported from Su'da al-Murriye, the wife of Ubeydullah. The hadith of Abu Said hasan garib is authentic.
993-) Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to us: “When you come to a sick or dying person, say good because the angels will say Amen to what you say.” Umm Salama said: When my husband Abu Salama died, I came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said that Abu Salama died. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said: "O Allah, forgive me and him and give me something better than him." I said the same, and Allah gave me the Messenger of Allah, who was better than my deceased husband, as my wife. (Muslim, Cenaiz: 2; Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 15) Ebû Vâil el Esedî is the son of Salaman. The hadith of Umm Salama is hasan authentic. It is mustahab to suggest the word Lailaha illallah to the patient at the time of death. Some scholars: "If the person who is going to die says this word once and does not speak, it is not necessary to insist much." Abdullah b. It was narrated from Mubarak. While in his own death sickness, a man preached the word Lailahe illallah and was persistent. Thereupon, Abdullah said: "Once I say it, as long as I don't say anything else, I'm on top of what I said. The meaning of Abdullah's words should be as follows. He must be referring to the saying, "The last word of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) is La ilaha illallah, and he will enter Paradise".
994-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: I was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) at the time of his death, he had a water container with water next to him, he dipped his hand into it and wiped his face and said: O Allah, help me from the pains of death and the severity of death.” (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 64) This hadith is hasan garib.
995-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “I do not envy anyone for his easy death due to the grave situation I witnessed in the death of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Nesai, Cenaiz: 6) I asked Abu Zür'a about this hadith and said: Abdurrahman b. Who is Ala? He said: He is Ala, the son of Leccac. This is how he is known.
996-) According to the narration from Alkame (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abdullah b. I heard Mas'ud say: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) that he said: "A believer surrenders his soul with sweat on his forehead and dies and dies. Like the death of a donkey, I don't like death." It was said to him: What does the death of a donkey mean? They said, "Sudden and swift death." (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
997-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If there is any good at the beginning and end of this page, Allah says, if there is any good in the angels who preserve the deeds of the servant throughout the night and day and present them to Allah. : I have forgiven the sins of this servant all over this page.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
998-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from the father of Burayda (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A believer dies with sweat on his forehead because of the severity of death or because he is ashamed of Allah's forgiveness." (Nesai, Cenaiz: 5; İbn Mâce, Cenaiz: 5) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Mas'ud on this subject. This hadith is hasan. Some scholars of Qatade, Abdullah b. They say we do not know that he heard a hadith from Burayda.
999-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went to a young man who was about to die and said: “How do you find yourself?” she asked. Young: “O Messenger of Allah! I swear to Allah that I hope Allah will forgive me and I am afraid of my sins," he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "At such times, Allah gives the servant what he hopes for from these two things that come to his heart, and saves him from what he fears." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 31) This hadith is hasan garib. Some of them narrate this hadith through Thabit as mursal.
1000-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do not spread the news of death with lamentations and cries, because this is one of the customs of ignorance." Abdullah says: “Na'y; It means declaring death news with lamentation and screams.” (Ibn Mâce, Cenaiz: 51; Nesai, Cenaiz: 15)
1001-) Again, Abdullah b. A similar hadith has been narrated from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh) without any reference to it; There is no mention of "Na'y: to announce death with lamentation and screams". This narration is more authentic than Anbasa's narration from Abu Hamza. Abu Hamza: Maymun al-A'war is not considered a solid person in the company of hadith scholars. The hadith of Abdullah is hasan garib. Some scholars do not welcome na and define na as: “So-and-so is dead, it is announcing with special officials to be present at his funeral”. Some scholars say, "There is no harm in informing your close and relatives." It is also narrated that Ibrahim said: "There is no harm in informing one's relatives about his death."
1002-) Huzeyfe b. According to the narration from Yeman (radiyallahu anh), he said: "When I die, do not let anyone know that I died because I fear that it may be na'y because I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade na." (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 14) The hadith is hasan authentic.
1003-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Sabr is established at the first moment of events.” (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 32; Muslim, Cenaiz: 8) This hadith is strange in its form.
1004-) Again, according to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The value and worth of sabr are established in the first moment.” (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 32; Muslim, Cenaiz: 8) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1005-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) He kissed Maz'un at the time of his death, crying or tearing up." (Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 35; Ibn Mâce, Cenaiz: 7) There is also a narration from Ibn Abbas, Jabir and Aisha on the subject, and these people say: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) died, Abu Bakr kissed him. This hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic.
1006-) According to the narration from Umm Atiyya (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: One of the daughters of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) died. Thereupon, he said: “The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); He said, "If you need to, wash him three or five times more, wash him with water and sidr, then wash him with camphor or a piece of camphor, and let me know when you're done." We let you know when we were done. He gave us the dress he wore, called hikv, and they told us to make it his underwear.” (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 8; Muslim, Janaiz: 12) says: In other narrations of this hadith -maybe Hisham may be one of them- Umm Atiyya said: We had made her hair in three braids. Again Hushaym says: "I think we brought the braid of your hair to the back of it." He continued his words as follows: Khalid from among those who narrated it from Hafsa, and from Muhammad, from Umm Atiyya, they said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) told us: "Start washing the corpse on the right side and the ablution organs." A hadith was also narrated from Umm Sulaym on the subject. The hadith of Umm Atiyya is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. From Nahai: According to the narration, he says: Washing a corpse is just like washing one's body for purification. b. Enes says: In our opinion, there is no certain limitation and certainty in the funeral washing business. The corpse is washed clean. He says: The owner spoke briefly and concisely by saying that he is cleansed of dirt and cleaned. If you wash it with plain water or water mixed with soap, this ghusl is a substitute. But what I like is that it is washed three times and more than three times. Because of the order of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) to "wash him three or five times", one should not wash less than three times. If it is cleaned from dirt by washing less than three times, this is sufficient. In our opinion, the word of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) "wash three or five times" means only clean, since it does not set limits. Fiqh scholars are of the same opinion and know the meanings of hadith better. Ahmed and Ishaq also say: Washing is done with water and sidr, and in the last one, a piece of camphor is thrown and the washing is completed.
1007-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The best fragrance is musk." (Muslim, Adab: 5; Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 32) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1008-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about musk; They said, "It is the best of fragrances". (Muslim, Adab: 5; Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 32) This hadith is hasan sound and some scholars practice it with this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars are of the opinion that it is not pleasant to apply musk to the funeral. Mustamir b. Reyyan also narrated this hadith from Abu Nadra and Abu Said al-Khudri. says: Yahya b. Said says: Mustamir b. Reyyan is a reliable person. says: Huleyd b. Cafer is a reliable person.
1009-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “It is necessary to make a ghusl for washing the corpse, and to perform wudu for carrying the corpse.” (Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 34) A hadith was also reported from Ali and Aisha on this subject. The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan and was also narrated from Abu Huraira as mawkuf. Scholars have put forward different opinions about the person who washes the corpse, and some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and other periods say that a person who washes the corpse should make a ghusl, while others say that it is sufficient to perform ablution. b. Enes says: I consider it mustahab for a person who washes a corpse to make a ghusl, I do not think that it is wâjib. He is of the same opinion. Ahmed also says: I am of the opinion that it is not necessary to make a ghusl for a person who washes a corpse. As for making ablution; The least that is said about it is to make wudu. Ishaq says: Ablution is absolutely necessary. Abdullah b. It is reported that Mubarak said: Neither ghusl nor wudu is done because of washing the corpse.
1010-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Wear white clothes because your best clothes are those with white colour. Shroud your dead with a white shroud.” (Abu Dawud, Cenaiz: 29; Ibn Mâce, Cenaiz: 12) hadiths were also narrated from Samura, Ibn Omar and Aisha. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Scholars consider it mustahab to be shrouded in white cloth. Mubarak says: I think it is more pleasant for a person to be shrouded in the clothes in which he prays. and in Ishaq they say: In our opinion, the white and beautiful shroud is more lovely.
1011-) According to a narration from Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever is authorized on behalf of a deceased person should make his shroud of good quality.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also reported from Jabir on the subject. This hadith is hasan garib. Mubarak says, "Let him make his dead brother's shroud from a beautiful one," Sellam b. Abi Mutî' says: "That shroud must be clean, it does not have to be expensive."
1012-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was shrouded with three pieces of white Yemeni cloth, there was no shirt or turban." (Muslim, Cenaiz: 13; Ibn Mâce, Cenaiz: 11) When it was said to Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): "It is said that she was shrouded in two pieces of cloth and a striped cloth," Aisha said: A striped cloth was brought, but they were not shrouded in it and returned that cloth. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1013-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) Hamza b. He shrouded Abdulmuttalib with a single striped fabric.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) In this regard; Ali, Ibn Abbas, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Mugaffel and Ibn Umar. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. There have been different narrations about the shroud of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and the most authentic one is that of Aisha. The Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and many of the scholars of the later period practiced according to this hadith. says: The man is shrouded in three layers of clothing; If possible, it can be done with three wraps, one of which is a shirt and two of which are wraps. Even one piece is enough if there are no two pieces to wrap. Two pieces are enough, and three pieces is better. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion and say: "The woman is shrouded in five pieces."
1014-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Jafar (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the news of Jafar's death came, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Prepare food for Jafar's family because the funeral kept them busy." (Abu Dawud, Cenaiz: 25; Ibn Mâce, Cenaiz: 59) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars considered it mustahab to go with some food because the family of the deceased was busy with trouble. Shafii is of this opinion. Jafar b. Khalid; He is Sare's son and is a reliable person. Ibn Jurayj narrated hadith from him.
1015-) Abdullah b. According to what was narrated from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Those who tear their cheeks to pieces at the time of death and similar troubles, beat their cheeks and shout ignorantly are not from us” (Bukhari, Janaiz: 45; Ibn Mâce, Cenaiz: 14) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1016-) Ali b. According to the narration from Rebia al-Asadî, he said: Karaza b. A man called Ka'b died and he wept loudly. Thereupon, Muğîre b. Shu'ba came and climbed the pulpit, and after praising and praising Allah, he said: "What's wrong with crying loudly for the dead in Islam? Whoever weeps loudly from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) will be punished for this wail and wail.” I heard you say. (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 45; İbn Mâce, Cenaiz: 24) on the subject Ömer, Ali, Ebû Musa, Kays b. Asım, Ebû Hüreyre, Cünade b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik, Enes, Umm Atiyye, Samura and Abu Malik al-Ash'ari. The hadith of muğira is garib hasan authentic.
1017-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Four characteristics are among the traditions of ignorance in my Ummah, and they do not want to leave them. 1- To cry loudly after the dead. 2- To speak out against people's honor and lineage. 3- Contagiousness (one camel got scabies, a hundred camels got scabies, who made the first camel? 4- Predictions about rain and weather conditions from the stars; (words like it rained on us by means of a star)” (Tirmidhi narrated) The hadith is hasan.
1018-) Umar b. It was narrated from Khattab (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If a person weeps behind his back, he will be punished." (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 32; Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 25) Ibn Omar and Imran b. A hadith was also narrated from Husayn. The hadith of Omar is hasan authentic. Some scholars do not welcome crying over the dead and say, "The deceased is punished by crying after him," and they practice with this hadith. Mubarak says: If the deceased has announced that he should not cry while he is alive, I hope that nothing will happen to him.
1019-) According to what Abu Musa al-Ash'ari narrated to us from his father, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If a person dies and then their weepers cry with expressions like our support, our master, and similar expressions, then two angels will be assigned to the funeral. They're jostling and saying are you like this?" (Ibn Maja, Cenaiz: 54; Bukhari, Cenaiz: 32) This hadith is hasan garib.
1020-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a person weeps for him, he will be punished.” When Aisha heard this narration, she said: May Allah have mercy on Ibn Umar, she did not really lie, but she was probably wrong because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about a dead Jew: "The person who dies is punished, and those behind him are crying for him." (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 43; Muslim, Cenaiz: 10) Ibn Abbas, Karaza b. Ka'b, Abu Huraira, Ibn Mas'ud and Usama b. A hadith was also narrated from Zayd. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. This hadith was also narrated from Aisha in different ways. Scholars practice with this hadith. They interpreted the 15th verse of the chapter of Isra in this sense. This is the Shafi'i view.
1021-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said that Abdurrahman b. Holding Avf's hand, they came to his son Ibrahim, who was living his last moments. The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) took his child in his arms and wept. Thereupon, Abdurrahman b. Avf; He forbids us to cry and you cry yourself, he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I forbade it only because of unbalanced and loud crying. In other words, the unbalanced sounds at the time of calamity, the scratching of the faces, the tearing of the neck and the devilish noise…” This hadith is longer. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan.
1022-) Aisha was reminded of Ibn Omar's statement, “The dead are tormented because of the crying of the living.” She said: May Allah forgive Abdurrahman's father, he did not lie, but forgot or spoke wrongly. Because; "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed by the grave of a Jewish woman and said: They are crying for the dead, but he is being tortured in his grave. (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 33; Muslim, Cenaiz: 10) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1023-) According to the narration from Salim's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father, he said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abu Bakr and Umar walking in front of the funeral.” (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 16)
1024-) Again Sâlim b. According to a narration from Abdullah's father, he said: "I saw the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) Abu Bakr and Omar walking in front of the funeral." (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 16)
1025-) According to what is reported from Zuhri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abu Bakr and Umar would walk in front of the funeral.” (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 16) says: According to Sâlim, his father, Omar's son Abdullah, would walk in front of the funeral. A hadith has also been narrated from Anas on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Umar has been narrated in different ways. İbn Cüreyc, Ziyâd b. Sa'd and many others have narrated from Zuhrî, Salim and his father like the narration of Ibn Uyeyna. Ma'mer, Yunus b. Yazid, Malik and many hadith memorizers narrated from Zuhri that "The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) would walk in front of the funeral". says: Salim informed that his father was walking in front of the funeral. All hadith scholars are of the opinion that the mursal narration on this issue is more authentic. Yahya b. I heard from Musa, he was saying: Abdurrezzak, narrating from Ibn al-Mubarak, says: The mursal hadith from Zuhri is more authentic than the hadith of Ibn Uyeyna. Mubarak says: I am of the opinion that Ibn Jurayj got this hadith from Ibn Uyayna. Hemmâm b. Yahya narrated this hadith from the son of Sa'd, Ziyad, Mansur, through Bakr and Sufyan, from Zuhri, Salim and his father. The person Hemmâm narrated from him was Sûfyan b. It is Uyeyne. men put forward different opinions about walking in front of the funeral. Some of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and scholars of later periods say that walking in front of the funeral is more valuable. Ahmed and Shafii are among them. In this regard, the hadith of Enes did not find much fame.
1026-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman would walk in front of the funeral.” (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 16) I asked Muhammad about this hadith and he said: This hadith is Muhammad b. It is an erroneous narration that Bekir is wrong. This hadith was narrated from Yunus and Zuhri as follows: "The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), Abu Bakr and Omar used to walk in front of the funeral." He says: According to what Salim told me, his father would walk in front of the funeral. Muhammad says this narration is more authentic.
1027-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) to walk behind the funeral, and he said: Walk with short and fast steps, if the funeral is a good person; You will get him to his destination quickly. If he is a bad person; Let the people of Hell get away from us as soon as possible. You walk behind the funeral, the funeral is not the one coming from behind. leading; He is not considered to have attended the funeral.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 44) Abdullah b. We know this hadith of Mas'ud only in this way. Muhammed b. I heard Ismail call this hadith of Abu Majid weak. Muhammad says: Ibn Uyeyna, narrated from Humaydi, said to Yahya, "Who is this Majid? He was asked. Thereupon, Yahya (as an uncertain person) said, “A bird flew and narrated a hadith to us.” Some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and his followers do their practice with this hadith, and they think that walking behind the funeral and on foot is more valuable. Sufyan es Sevri and Ishaq are among them. Majid” is an unknown unknown person. He narrated two hadiths from Ibn Mas'ud. “Yahya” is the imam of the sons of Taymullah and is a reliable person, his patronymic is Ebul Haris. He is called Yahya el Jabir or Yahya el Mücbir, he is from Kufa. Shu'be, Sûfyan es Sevrî, Ebul Ahvas and Sûfyan b. Uyayna narrated hadith from him.
1028-) According to what is reported from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We were at a funeral with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saw people following the funeral by getting on their mounts and said: "Are you not ashamed? Angels have joined on foot, you are on a thousand. (Ibn Mâce, Cenaiz: 15; Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 42) In this regard, Muğîre b. Shu'ba and Jabir b. A hadith was also narrated from Samura. This hadith of Sevban was also narrated from him as mawkuf, and Muhammad says: The mawkuf narration is more authentic than the mursal narration.
1029-) According to what is reported from Simak (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Jabir b. I heard Samura say: "We were at the funeral of Abu'd Dahdah together with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). (Abu Dawud, Cenaiz: 44; Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 215)
1030-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh): "The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) walked on foot after Abu'd Dahdah's funeral and was on a horse on the way back." (Muslim, Cenaiz: 28; Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 44) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1031-) According to what is reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Remove the corpse quickly; If he is a good person, you will bring him closer to his goodness and reward, if he is an evil person, you will throw him off your shoulders.” (Muslim, Cenaiz: 16; Abu Dâvûd: Cenaiz: 45) hadiths were also reported from Abu Bakr. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
1032-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to Hamza's body on the day of Uhud and paused, saw that musle had been made on the corpse and said: If I hadn't put my aunt and Hamza's sister Safiyya in trouble. I would leave Hamza's corpse like that and leave it to be eaten by wild animals, and I would like them to be resurrected from their bellies on the Day of Judgment." says: “Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked for a dress made of striped fabric and shrouded it with it. When this fabric head was pulled to its side, its feet remained uncovered, and when it was pulled towards its feet, its head remained uncovered.” He says: "There were many martyrs, but very little material to make shrouds." Enes continued as follows: One person or two or three people were wrapped in a shroud and buried in a grave. While he was burial, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asking which one had the most knowledge of the Qur'an and was leading him towards the qibla. Anas says: Thus, he buried all the martyrs of Uhud and did not offer the funeral prayer for them. (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 74) The hadith of Anas is hasen garib and we know it only in this way. It means (worn dress). In the narration of the hadith Usama b. Zayd was opposed. Leys b. Sa'd, Ibn Shihab, Abdurrahman b. Ka'b b. From Malik, Jabir b. Abdullah b. He narrated this hadith from Zayd. Ma'mer, on the other hand, has this hadith again; Zuhrî, Abdullah b. He narrated from Sa'lebe, from Jabir. and Usama b. We do not know anyone other than Zayd. I asked Muhammad about this hadith and he said: Leys'in from Ibn Sihab, Abdurrahman b. Ka'b b. What is narrated from Malik and Jabir is more authentic.
1033-) Enes b. According to what was reported from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) visited the sick, attended funerals, rode a donkey (even when a camel was horse) and was humble enough to even respond to the invitation of a slave. . He even rode on a donkey whose bridle and saddle were woven from date fiber and rope on the day of Bani Qurayza.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 16) We know this hadith only with this narration of Muslim from Enes. It is said that Muslim al A'ver is weak in hadith. Muslim b. There was talk back and forth about this person called in Keysan, and Shu'ba and Sufyan al-Malai narrated hadiths from him.
1034-) According to what is reported from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) died, different opinions were put forward about his burial. Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) said: There is a saying that I have heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and that I still have not forgotten: "Allah takes the souls of the prophets where he wants to be buried, so bury him where his bed is." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Abdurrahman b. It has been said that Abu Bakr al-Muleyki's memory was weak. This hadith has been narrated in different ways. Ibn Abbas also narrated this hadith from Abu Bakr.
1035-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Remember the good aspects of the deceased, and do not bring up the bad ones." (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 20; Nesai, Cenaiz: 51) This hadith is strange. I heard from Muhammad saying: Imran b. Enes al-Makki is a person who makes unpleasant narrations. Some of them narrated this hadith from Aisha. This hadith is garib. I heard from Muhammad saying: Imran b. Ebi Enes al-Makki is a person who makes unpleasant narrations. Some of them narrated this hadith from Aisha. Imran b. Ebi Enes; Imran b. He is stronger and older than Enes.
1036-) Ubade b. Samit (radiy-Allâhu anh) said in the narration: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not sit down before he was put in the grave of anyone whose funeral he attended. A Jewish scholar said: "We do it like this." Thereupon, they said, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sat down and do the opposite of what they did." (Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 42; İbn Mâce, Cenaiz: 35) This hadith is strange. Bishr b. Rafi' is not very strong in hadith.
1037-) According to the narration from Abu Sinan (radiyallahu anh), he said: I buried my son Sinan. Abu Talha al-Havlani was sitting on the edge of the grave, when I wanted to come out of the grave, he took my hand and said: "O Abu Sinan, shall I give you good news? I said yes, too. He said: Dahhak b. Abdurrahman b. According to what Arzeb narrated to me from Abu Musa al-Ashari, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When a servant's child dies, Allah; Have you taken the soul of my servant's child to your angels? He commands. Angels say yes. Then Allah says: Did you pluck the fruit of his heart? Angels say yes. What did my servant say? He commands. The angels said: "Hamdetti wa Inna lillahi wa inna ilayhi rajiun". They say. Thereupon, Allah says: "Build a house for this servant of mine in Paradise and call it the "House of Praise". (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
1038-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): “As the King of Abyssinia, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the funeral prayer in absentia for the Negus when his funeral was not present, and he said four takbirs in this prayer.” (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 6; İbn Mâce, Cenaiz: 24) On this subject, İbn Abbas, İbn ebi Evfâ, Câbir, Yazîd b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit and Anas. Yazid b. Still; Zayd b. He is the brother of Sabit and he is older than him. He was in the battle of Badr. Zayd was not found. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Many scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods practice their practices with this hadith and say four takbirs in the funeral prayer. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik b. Among them are Enes, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq.
1039-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Abi Layla (radiyallahu anh), he said: Zayd b. Erkam would say four takbirs in the funeral prayer. He once said five takbirs. We asked him about it, and he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would also say five takbirs." (Muslim, Cenaiz: 22; Abu Dâvûd: Cenaiz: 52) Zayd b. The hadith of Arkam is hasan sound. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods are of this opinion and say that five takbirs are recited in the funeral prayer. and Ishaq say: If the imam leads the funeral prayer by saying five takbirs, the imam will definitely be followed.
1040-) According to the narration from the father of Abu Ibrahim al-Ashhelî (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) performed the funeral prayer, “O Allah, forgive us our living, our dead, our present and absent, small and old, male and female.” she prayed.
1041-) Yahya says: Abu Salama b. Abdurrahman transmitted a similar hadith from Abu Huraira to us and made the following addition. "O Allah, let the person you wish to live among us live according to Islam, and kill the person you want to die with faith." (56; İbn Mâce, Cenaiz: 23; Buhârî, Cenaiz: 65) Abdurrahman, Aisha, Abu Katade, Avf b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik and Jabir. The hadith of Abu Ibrahim from his father is hasan authentic. ed Destevâî and Ali b. al-Mubarak reported this hadith from Yahya b. Ebî Kathir, from Ebû Salama b. They narrated from Abdurrahman and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as mursal. Ikrima b. Ammar; Yahya b. He narrated the same hadith from Abi Kathir, Abu Salama and Aisha. Ikrima b. The hadith of Ammar is not very acceptable. In the hadith of Ikrima Yahya, he was mistaken by delusion. This hadith is similar to Yahya b. Ebû Kathir, Abdullah b. It was also narrated from Abu Qatada and his father. I heard him say: The most authentic narration on this subject is Yahya b. It is a narration by Abî Kathir from the father of Abu Ibrahim al-Ashelî. I asked him what Abu Ibrahim's name was, but he did not know.
1042-) Awf b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say the following while performing the funeral prayer for a dead person, and he said in his prayer: “O Allah, forgive him, have mercy on him, as the laundry is cleaned of dirt (rain). purify them from their sins with snow). (Muslim, Cenaiz: 26; Ibn Mâce, Cenaiz: 23) This hadith is hasan authentic. This is the most authentic hadith.
1043-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "The Prophet (pbuh) recited Surah Fatiha in the funeral prayer." (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 65; Nesai, Cenaiz: 77) A hadith was also reported from Umm Sharik on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is not very sound. b. Osman is called Abu Shayba al-Wasiti, and his narration is not widely accepted. The authentic narration from Ibn Abbas is that he said: "It is a sunnah to recite Surah Fatiha in the funeral prayer."
1044-) Talha b. According to the narration from Awf (radiyallahu anh); While performing the funeral prayer, Ibn Abbas recited Surah Fatiha and I asked him: "To recite Fatiha is from the sunnah or from the whole sunnah," he said. (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 65; Nesai, Cenaiz: 77) This hadith is hasan sahih. Some of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later scholars prefer to recite Surah Fatiha after the first takbir by making their practices with this hadith. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Scholars also say: There is no reciting the Fatiha time in the funeral prayer. But praise to Allah consists of salawat to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and supplication for the deceased. The people of Küfe, Sevri and others are among them. b. Abdullah b. Avf, Abdurrahman b. He is the son of Avf's brother, he narrated Zuhri hadiths from him.
1045-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Yezenî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Malik b. When Hubayra was going to lead the funeral prayer once, he found the congregation small and made them three rows. Then he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If three rows of congregations perform the funeral prayer on a person, Allah will make Paradise obligatory for him if he goes to that person with faith. (Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 39; İbn Mâce, Cenaiz: 19) A hadîth was also reported from Aisha, Umm Habibe, Abu Hurayra and Maymuna, one of the wives of our Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Malik b. The hadith of Hubairah is hasan. Many people refer to this hadith as Muhammad b. Thus they narrated from Ishaq. b. Sa'd also narrated this hadith from Muhammad b. Narrated by Ishaq, Malik b. He put another narrator between Hubaira and Mersed, which, in our opinion, is more authentic.
1046-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When a Muslim dies, a hundred Muslims perform the funeral prayer for that person and pray for his forgiveness, Allah will accept their prayers in this regard. Ali b. Hujr says: “One hundred or more than one hundred people.” (Muslim, Cenaiz: 18; Nesâî, Cenaiz: 78) Aisha's hadith is hasan sound, and some narrators have narrated it as mawkuf.
1047-) Uqbe b. According to the narration from Amir al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh), he said: “There were three times when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade us from performing prayers and burying a funeral; 1- Until the sun rises and rises a little, 2- Until the sun shifts west from the shadowless state of the things, 3- Until the sun approaches and sets.” (Nesai, Cenaiz: 89; İbn Mâce, Cenaiz: 30) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods do their practices with this hadith, and they do not tolerate performing funeral prayers at these times. Mubarak says: The meaning of the phrase "to bury your dead" in this hadith is to perform the funeral prayer. Therefore, he does not approve of performing the funeral prayer at sunrise, when the sun is at its peak and when the sun is setting. Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion. He says: There is no harm in performing the funeral prayer at these times when it is makruh to pray.
1048-) Muğre b. According to a narration from Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "He can walk from the back of the corpse on a mounted corpse to whichever side of the corpse on foot he wishes. Funeral prayer is performed for the child. (Nesai, Cenaiz: 59; İbn Mâce, Cenaiz: 26) This hadith is hasan authentic. Israel and many people reported this hadith as Said b. It was narrated from Ubeydullah. Some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods practice with this hadith and say: Even a child born dead in the womb, but still alive, is performed the funeral prayer. Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion.
1049-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A child who is not born alive cannot be given a funeral prayer, and that child can neither inherit nor leave it.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) In this hadith, hadith scholars were in turmoil. Some narrated it from Abu'z Zubayr and Jabir as merfu. Eş'as b. Sevvar and many others have narrated from Abu'z Zubayr and Jabir as mawkuf. Again, Muhammad b. Ishaq, Ata b. It was narrated from Abi Rebah and Jabir as mawkuf that this narration seems more authentic. Some scholars practice with this hadith and say that the funeral prayer cannot be performed for a child who is not born alive. Sûfyan es Sevrî and Shafii are among them.
1050-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) told Suhayl b. He led the funeral prayer for Beyza in the mosque.” (Muslim, Cenaiz: 34; Ibn Mâce, Cenaiz: 29) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars do their practices with this hadith. Shafi'i says: Malik said that funeral prayers cannot be performed in the mosque, and he supported the funeral prayer in the mosque, showing this hadith as evidence.
1051-) According to the narration from Abu Ghalib (radiyallahu anh), he said: Enes b. I performed the funeral prayer for a man with Malik. Enes stood at the level of the head of the corpse. Then they brought the body of a woman from Quraysh and said, "O Abu Hamza, let him lead the prayer of this funeral too." The room stood in the middle of the funeral and led the prayer. Thereupon, Ala b. Ziyad said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) lead the funerals of men and women in the same way." Hearing this, Enes said "Yes". When the funeral was finished, Enes said: "Learn them well." (Abu Dawud, Cenaiz: 51; Muslim, Cenaiz: 27) hadiths were also reported from Samura on the subject. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic. Many people have narrated this hadith in the same way from Hemmâm and said, "From the Victor and Enes", in delusion. The authentic one is the narration of Abu Ghalib. Abdulvaris b. Said and many others narrated this hadith from Abu Ghalib, just like Hemmam's. Hadith scholars have different opinions on the name of Abu Ghalib. Some say his name is Nafi, while others call him Rafi. Some scholars make their practices according to this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1052-) Samura b. According to the narration from Jundub (radiyallahu anh): "The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) led a woman's funeral prayer and stood in the middle of the funeral." (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 63; Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 51) This hadith is hasan authentic. Shu'ba reported this hadith from Husayn al-Muallim.
1053-) Jabir b. According to what Abdillah (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would gather two of the martyrs of Uhud, wrap them in a single shroud, and ask whichever one knows the Qur’an more, whichever one pointed out, he would put him in front of the grave and He would say: “I will be their witness on the Day of Judgment. He ordered the martyrs to be buried in their blood, he did not lead the funeral prayer for them, nor did they wash themselves. (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 72; Ibn Mâce, Cenaiz: 28) In this regard, Enes b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound. This hadith was also reported from Zuhri and Anas. Likewise, from Zuhrî, Abdullah b. Sa'lebe b. It was also narrated from Abu Suayr. Others narrated it only by transmitting it from Jabir. Scholars have put forward different views about performing the funeral prayer on a martyr. Some say that the funeral prayer cannot be performed on a martyr. The people of Medina and Ahmad and Shafii are among those who hold this view. Some scholars are of the opinion that the funeral prayer should be performed for a martyr as well, and they point to the funeral prayer that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed for the martyred Hamza as evidence. Sevri, Küfeli and İshâk are of this opinion.
1054-) According to what was reported from Sha'bi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the following was narrated: A person who saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) informed me: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a grave alone, with his companions behind him. He made a row and performed the funeral prayer on that grave. Sha'bi was asked who told you about this, and he said, "Ibn Abbas." (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 66; Muslim, Cenaiz: 23) Enes, Bureyde, Yazid b. Sabit, Ebû Hüreyre, Âmir b. Rabia, Abu Qatada and Sahl b. Hadith was also narrated from Hunayf. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Many scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the following period practiced this hadith. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Scholars also say, "Prayers cannot be performed over the grave". Malik b. Enes is of this opinion. b. Mubarak says: If he is buried in the grave before the funeral prayer is performed, prayer can be performed on that grave. Ibn al-Mubarak is of the opinion that prayer is performed over the grave. Ahmad and Ishaq: They say that prayer can be performed on the grave for up to a month and they add the following. The longest-lasting Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) we heard from Ibn al-Museyyeb on this subject is Sa’d b. Ubade's prayer over his mother's grave a month later.
1055-) Said b. It was narrated from Musayyeb (radiyallahu anh). While the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was absent in Madina, Sa'd's mother died. A month had passed. (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 66; Muslim, Cenaiz: 23)
1056-) Imran b. According to a narration from Husayn (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to us: "Your brother Negus has passed away, get up and offer him the funeral prayer." “We got up and became pure as in the funeral prayer, and we prayed for him like a funeral prayer.” (Nesâî, Cenaiz: 57; İbn Mâce, Cenaiz: 33) In this regard, Abû Hüreyre, Câbir b. Abdillah, Abu Said, Huzeyfe b. Esîd and Cerir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah. As such, this hadith is hasan sahih garib. Abu Qilabe, this hadith is the name of his uncle Ebul Mühelleb: Abdurrahman b. It is Amr. Also, Muawiya b. It is called Amr.
1057-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever performs the prayer of a funeral, there is a qirat reward for him. And whoever follows the funeral and is found until his burial, there are two qirats, each or the smallest of those two qirats as much as Mount Uhud.” I told this matter to Ibn Umar. He sent a man to Aisha and had her ask about this hadith, and Aisha said: "Abu Hurayra told the truth." Thereupon, Ibn Umar said: "It means that we have missed many qirat rewards." (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 57; Muslim, Cenaiz: 17) In this regard, Bera, Abdullah b. Mugaffel, Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Abu Said, Ubey b. Hadith was also narrated from Ka'b, Ibn Umar and Sevban. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic and has been narrated in different ways.
1058-) I heard from Abul Muhazem (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: I made friends with Abu Hurayra for ten years, and I heard from him that he said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) that he said: “Whoever follows the funeral three times If he carries the corpse, he will have done his part in the matter of the funeral.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Some people narrate this hadith in the same vein and do not convey it to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Ebûl Mühezzem's name is Yazîd b. He is Sufyan. Shu'bah notes that he is weak.
1059-) Âmir b. According to a narration from Rabia (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When you see a corpse, stand up for the corpse until it passes you or it is lowered from your shoulders." (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 47; Muslim, Cenaiz: 35) Abu Said, Jabir, Sahl b. Hunayf, Kays b. Hadith was also narrated from Sa'd and Abu Huraira. Âmir b. The hadith of Rabia is hasan authentic.
1060-) According to what was narrated from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When you see a funeral, stand up and the person following the funeral should not sit until it is taken off the shoulders.” (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 49; Ibn Mâce, Cenaze: 35) The hadith of Abu Said on this subject is hasan authentic.
1061-) Ahmad and Ishaq act upon this hadith and say: "The one who goes after the funeral should never sit down until it is taken off the shoulders." According to a narration from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and some scholars from later periods: "They would walk in front of the corpse and sit before the corpse reached them." This is the view of Shafi'i.
1062-) Ali b. According to what was narrated from Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he was told about the issue of standing until the corpse was taken down from his shoulders, and he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to get up for the funeral at first, and then he would not get up and sit down.” (Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 43) Hasan b. Hadith was also narrated from Ali and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Ali is hasan authentic. The narration of this hadith was narrated by four people from each other in the narration. Some of the scholars make their practices according to this hadith. He says: This is the most authentic hadith on this subject. The hadith abolished the provision of the hadith "Get up when you see a corpse". He says: "A person can stand up if he wishes, and not stand up if he wishes," he puts forward as evidence the narration that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not stand up at first and then did not stand up and then sat down. Ishaq b. This is exactly what Abraham says. The meaning of Ali's (radiyallahu anh) statement: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got up for the funeral beforehand and then sat down" means: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a funeral, he used to stand up, and then he left it. When he saw the funeral, he couldn't stand up," he says.
1063-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Digging a grave by making a separate section towards the Qibla is the grave model of us Muslims. Those other than us dig graves like a flat pit.” (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 71; Muslim, Cenaiz: 29) Cerir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah, Aisha, Ibn Omar and Jabir. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan garib in this form.
1064-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was put in the grave, he once said: “In the name of Allah, by the command of Allah and in the way of Allah’s Messenger”, and another time, “Allah He said, "We are bringing you down to the grave by the command of Allah and in accordance with the Sunnah of the Messenger of Allah." (Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 63; İbn Mâce, Cenaiz: 38) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. The hadith was also narrated in another way by Ibn Umar. In addition, this hadith was narrated again from Ibn Omar by Abus Siddik an Naci, and it was also narrated from Abus Siddik an Naci as a source.
1065-) Osman b. According to what is reported from Ferkad (radiyallahu anh), he said: Cefer b. According to what I heard from Muhammad's father, he said: “It was Abu Talha who dug and prepared the grave of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the shape of a sarcophagus. The one who puts a velvet cover under the grave is Thanksgiving, one of the slaves freed by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). says: Ubeydullah b. Abi Rafi' reported it to me and said: I heard from Thanksgiving, he was saying: "By Allah, it was me who threw the velvet cover on the floor of the grave of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Muslim, Cenaiz: 30; Nesai, Cenaiz: 88) There is also a narration from Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith of gratitude is hasan garib. Ali b. This hadith is reported in al-Madinî by Osman b. He narrated from Ferkad.
1066-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "A red velvet was spread on the floor of the grave of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him)." (Nesai, Cenaiz: 88; Muslim, Cenaiz: 30)
1067-) Muhammed b. Bashar has also been narrated to us on this subject in another place. Muhammed b. Cafer and Yahya; He narrated to us from Shu'ba, Abu Jamra and Ibn Abbas, which is more authentic. This hadith is hasan authentic. Shu'be narrates it from Abu Hamza al-Kassab. The name of this person was Imran b. Ebi Ata. Likewise, it was narrated from Abu Cemre ed DubaÎ that the name of this person was Nasr b. He is Imran. Both are friends of Ibn Abbas. It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that he considered it makruh to lay something under the dead in the grave. Some scholars are of the same opinion.
1068-) It was narrated from Abu Vâil (radiy-Allâhu anh). Ali said to Ebul Heyyac al-Asadi: I am sending you on a mission that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent me; “Let you level the tombs above the ground level and destroy every statue and idol you see.” (Muslim, Cenaiz: 31; Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 66) A hadith was also reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh) on this subject. The hadith of Ali is hasan. Some scholars do their practice with this hadith and do not tolerate being lifted above ground level. He says: I do not welcome the graves to be higher than the ground level, but it is appropriate to raise them high enough to be clear that they are graves so that they cannot be trampled on or sat on.
1069-) According to the narration from Abu Mersed al-Ganevi (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not sit on the graves and do not pray in front of the graves." (Ebû Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 71; İbn Mâce, Cenaiz: 45) In this regard, Ebû Hüreyre, Amr b. Hazm, Beşîr b. Hadith was also narrated from Hasaiyya.
1070-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Abdurrahman b. Mahdi through Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Mubarak to us.
1071-) A similar hadith was narrated from Abu Mersed al-Ganevî (radiy-Allâhu anh), but it was not said “from Abu Idris” and this is the authentic narration. Muhammad says: Ibn'ul Mubarak's narration is wrong, and Ibn al-Mubarak mistakenly added "From Abu Idris al Havlani" in this narration. The correct narration was Busr b. It is the narration of Ubeydullah from Vasile. Many people like Abdurrahman b. Yazid b. They narrated from Jabir and did not say from "Ebû İdris el Havlani", Büsr b. Ubeydullah, Vasile b. He heard a hadith from Eska.
1072-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade making lime (and marble) on graves, writing on graves, building buildings on graves, and chewing on graves.” (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 43; Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 70) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Jabir in other ways. Some scholars say, "Purses can be plastered with mud". Hasan al-Basri is one of them. He says, "There is no harm in plastering the grave with mud."
1073-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stopped by the cemeteries of Medina and turned his face towards those in the graves and said: “O those who lie in these graves! God's peace be upon you. May Allah forgive us and you too, you are among our leaders, and we will follow in your footsteps." (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 36; Muslim, Cenaiz: 35) A hadith was also reported from Burayda and Aisha on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan garib. Kudayna's name is Yahya b. It is Mühellab. The name of Abu Zabyan is Husayn b. He is Jundup.
1074-) Süleyman b. According to the narration from the father of Burayda (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I had forbidden you to visit graves for some reason. Now Muhammad has been given permission to visit his mother's grave, and you should visit the graves, because visiting the graves reminds you of the hereafter.” (Nesai, Cenaiz: 100; İbn Mâce, Cenaiz: 47) Hadiths on this subject were also narrated from Abu Said, Ibn Mas'ud, Anas, Abu Huraira and Umm Salama. The hadith of Burayda is hasan sound. Scholars do their practices with this hadith and they see no harm in visiting the grave. Ibn al-Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq are of this opinion.
1075-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Abi Mulayka (radiy-Allāhu anh), he said: “Abdurrahman ibn Abi Bakr died in a place called Hubshi, close to Mecca. His body was transferred to Mecca and buried there. When Aisha came to Mecca, Abdurrahman b. He came to visit Abu Bakr's grave and recited these two couplets of the poet Tamim. Once upon a time, we were like two chat friends of a king called Cezime. It was said that they would never part in the face of this friendship that lasted for years. But when we separate, it's like me and my brother Malik; Despite our long friendship, it's not like we stayed together even for one night. After reading these couplets, he said: "If I had been at the funeral, you would have been buried where you died. If I had been with you when you died, I would not have visited you in your grave.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
1076-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed the women who visit the graves." (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 49) Ibn Abbas and Hassan b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit. This hadith is hasan authentic. According to some scholars, this provision was before the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) allowed him to visit graves, and when permission was given, men also got into this permission for women. Some scholars do not like women's visits because their patience is low and their whining is high. They say.
1077-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went down to the grave at night to bury one of his companions. A lamp was lit for him, and he brought the corpse to the side of the qibla: "May Allah have mercy on you, you were a person who constantly groaned for fear of Allah and recited the Qur'an a lot." He uttered takbir four times over the funeral. (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 69) Câbir, Yazîd b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit (he is the elder brother of Zayd ibn Thabit). The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan. Some scholars do their practices according to this hadith, and they say, "The corpse is lowered into the grave by turning towards the qibla." Some scholars say: "It is taken from the top down and placed in the grave". Most scholars have allowed overnight burials.
1078-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A funeral passed in front of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and the Companions remembered him fondly. “You are the witnesses of Allah on earth.” (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 85; Nesai, Cenaiz: 51) In this regard, Ömer, Ka'b b. Hadith was also narrated from Ucre and Abu Huraira. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic.
1079-) According to the narration from Ebul Asved ed Düvelî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I came to Medina, Umar b. While sitting next to Khattab, they passed by with a funeral, and the people there remembered that funeral well, so Omar said, "It has become a necessity." Thereupon, "What became wâjib?" said. I am saying that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, He said: "If three witnesses testify for any Muslim, Paradise will be wajib for him. Are we two? we said. "Even if it's two people," he said. We did not ask about the testimony of a single person. (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 85; Nesai, Cenaiz: 50) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ebûl Esved ed Düvelî's name is Zalim b. Amr b. He is Sufyan.
1080-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever has three children dies before they reach puberty, he will not enter Hell, but the fire will have touched him enough to fulfill Allah's oath. . (In other words, according to verse 19 Mary: 71) (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 6; Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 47) In this regard, Ömer, Muâz, Ka'b b. Malik, Utbe b. Abd, Umm Suleym, Jabir, Enes, Abu Dharr, Ibn Mas'ud, Abu Sa'lebe al-Escai, Ibn Abbas, Ukbe b. Amir, Ebû Said, Kurre b. A hadith was also narrated from Iyas al-Muzeni. Sa'lebe has only one hadith from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). It is the hadith on this subject. Abu Sa'lebe is not a person called El Husheni. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
1081-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever has three children before they reach puberty, they will form a strong fortress for their parents against the fire of Hell. ” Zerr: What is my “I have sent two children” status? When he said that, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Two children are the same." One of the leaders of those who read the Qur'an, Ubay b. Ka'b said: "I have sent a child"; The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "It can happen, but this is the first time patience." (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 57; Muslim, Bir and Sıla: 47) This hadith is strange. Because Abu Ubayda did not hear hadith from his father.
1082-) According to what is reported to us from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the following from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Whoever has two children from my Ummah who died before reaching puberty, Allah will put him in Paradise because of those two children. Thereupon, Aisha (radiyallahu anha), what will happen to someone from her ummah who has a child in the same situation? He said, "O successful and intelligent woman, the same is true if a child is in the same situation." Aisha: “What will happen to the person who does not send any children? When I say it, I will be the leader of my ummah and the one who will be interceded and interceded. My ummah will not suffer greater losses than me. (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 57; Muslim, Bir and Sıla: 47) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Abdi Rabbih b. We know with the narration of Barik. Many hadith scholars have narrated hadiths from him.
1083-) Ahmed b. Said el Murabiti, Habban b. Abdi Rabbih b. He narrated a similar hadith from Barik to us. Simak b. Walid is Abu Zumayl al-Hanafi.
1084-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “There are five types of martyrs; With those who, while living as a Muslim as Allah wills, caught the Taun disease, got a fatal disease from the abdomen, drowned in water and died as a Muslim by being under the rubble; Those who die or are killed in the way of making the religion of Allah dominate the earth are considered martyrs.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 30; Muslim, Imara: 51) Enes, Safwan b. Ümayye, Câbir b. Atîk, Halid b. Urfuta, Süleyman b. Hadith was also narrated from Surad, Abu Musa, and Aisha. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
1085-) According to the narration from Abu Ishaq es Sebiyî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Suleyman b. Surad, Khalid b. He said to Urfuta (or Khalid to Solomon): Didn't you hear the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: “A person who has a deadly disease in the abdomen and dies with patience and faith will not see the torment in the grave.” Thereupon, one of these two people said to the other, “Yes”. (Nesai, Cenaiz: 111) This hadith on this subject is hasan garib. It has been reported in different ways.
1086-) Usama b. According to the narration from Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) talked about the disease of Taun and said: “It is a torment sent to a group of the sons of Israel or the residue of a dirty disease. If this contagious disease occurs in a place and you are there, do not go out. If you see this disease emerging in a place, do not enter there.” (Bukhari, Medicine: 30; Muslim, Selam: 32) Sa'd, Huzeyme b. Sabit, Abdurrahman b. Hadith was also narrated from Awf, Jabir and Aisha. Usama b. The hadith of Zayd is hasan authentic.
1087-) Ubade b. According to the narration from Samit (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever likes meeting Allah, and Allah loves meeting him if he wishes. And whoever does not like to be with Allah, Allah does not want to meet with that person.” (Bukhari, Rikak: 41; Muslim, Dhikr and Prayer: 5) Hadith was also reported from Abu Musa, Abu Huraira and Aisha on this subject. Ubade b. The sâmit hadith is hasan authentic.
1088-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) narrated to us that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever does not like to be with Allah, Allah does not like to be with him.” He said: "O Messenger of Allah, we all dislike death." Thereupon, they said: Not in that sense, but when the believer is given the good news of Allah's mercy, consent and Paradise in his last breath and every moment, he desires to meet Allah. God desires to meet with that person. The unbeliever, on the other hand, does not want to meet Allah when he is given the good news of Allah's wrath and punishment in his life and at the time of death. Allah does not like to be with him. (Muslim, Prayer and Dhikr: 5; Nesai, Cenaiz: 10) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1089-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh); “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not perform the funeral prayer of a man who killed him.” (Muslim, Cenaiz: 37; Nesai, Cenaiz: 68) This hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars have expressed different views on this issue. Some say that the funeral prayer is performed for anyone who turns to the qibla and prays and commits suicide. This is how Sufyan al-Sevri and Ishaq think. He says: The imam, who is the head of state who has authority, can't lead the prayer of a person who commits suicide, but someone else can. (The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not perform the funeral prayer of a person who committed suicide because he rebelled and to warn people from committing suicide. He did not perform it on debtors, either.)
1090-) Osman b. Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mawhib (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abdullah b. According to what Abu Qatada narrated from his father, the body of a man was brought to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to lead the funeral prayer, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Perform your friend's prayer because he has debts." Abu Qatada said: "I will pay that debt." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Do you guarantee the payment?" When he said that, Qatada said, "Yes, you will pay". Thereupon, he offered the funeral prayer for that person. (Nesâî, Cenaiz: 67) In this regard, Câbir, Seleme b. A hadith has also been narrated from Ekvâ', Asma bint Yazîd. The hadith of Abu Qatada is hasan authentic.
1091-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The corpse of a person who died in debt to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was brought to him. Upon this, "Did he leave any property to pay his debt?" he asked. If it is said that he left goods in an amount to pay; he used to pray for anyone else, if not for Muslims; He would say, "Perform your friend's prayer." When the Islamic state was blessed with conquests and the Islamic state became rich, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went up to the pulpit and said: "I am closer to the believers than themselves, so it is up to me to pay the debt of the person who died by leaving a debt, and whoever leaves wealth, it will be divided among his heirs." (Nesai, Cenaiz: 67) This hadith is hasan authentic. Yahya b. Bukayr and many others reported this hadith from Leys b. Sa'd, Abdullah b. They narrated it like the hadith of Sa'd.
1092-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you or a dead person is put in a grave, two angels with black and blue eyes come to him and one of them is called munkar and the other nakir. Those two angels say: What do you say about this man called Mohammed? That person, on the other hand, repeats exactly what he said before he died: He is the servant and Messenger of Allah. I testify that there is no true god but Allah. Muhammad is his servant and messenger. Those two angels say: We knew you would say that. Then that grave is expanded to seventy cubits and made illuminated, and it is said to sleep comfortably here. Can I go back and inform my family about this situation? When you say those two angels; They say that the bride and groom, like the bridegroom, sleep as comfortably as the bride-to-be, who is the one who loves the most from their family. That person sleeps comfortably in that grave until he is resurrected for the Day of Judgment. If the person buried in the grave is a hypocrite, the question asked about Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) is; I heard people say prophet, that's exactly what I said, is it true? isn't it? He will say I don't know. Then those two angels; They say we knew you would say that. It is said to compress that grave, and it is squeezed in the grave and the ribs move from their places. Allah will continue to torment him until he wakes him up on the Day of Judgment.” (Nesai, Cenaiz: 114; Bukhari, Cenaiz: 86) Ali, Zayd b. Sabit, Ibn Abbas, Bera b. A hadith about the torment in the grave was also narrated from Azib, Abu Ayyub, Anas, Jabir, Aisha and Abu Said. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan garib.
1093-) According to a narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When a person dies, his place of residence in the hereafter is shown to him morning and evening if he is from Paradise, and Hell if he is from Hell. It is shown where it is from, and it is said to him that this is where you will sit, and Allah will send you here on the Day of Judgment.” (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 89) This hadith is hasan.
1094-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a disaster befalls him, get well soon, the person who visits him has the same reward as a person who suffers disaster.” (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 56) This hadith is strange. As Merfu, only Ali b. We know from the narration of Asim. Some narrators reported this hadith as Muhammad b. They narrated from Suka as mawkuf in the same deed. Ali b. It is said that this hadith is the subject that Asım was tested the most. Hadithists are angry with him because of this narration.
1095-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Allah protects a Muslim who dies on Friday or Friday night from the fitna of the grave." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. The bill is not absolute. Rabia b. Sayf only through Abu Abdurrahman al-Hubulli to Abdullah b. Narrated by Amr. Rabia b. Seyf'in, Abdullah b. We do not know that he heard hadith from Amr.
1096-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abu Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to him: “O Ali! Do not delay three things; To pray when the time comes, a funeral when it is ready, to marry a husbandless woman when you find her equal.” (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 51; Muslim, Cenaiz: 16) This hadith is strange. I don't think he's in the deed, either.
1097-) According to the narration from Abu Barza (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever pays condolences to a woman who has lost her child, that person will be dressed in a garment in Paradise." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. It's not very strong either.
1098-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) uttered the first takbir to lead the funeral prayer, raised his hands and placed his right hand on his left hand." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We only know this way. Scholars have expressed different views on this issue. Many people from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and later periods are of the opinion that the hands should be raised in every takbir in the funeral prayer. Ibn al-Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq are of this opinion. Some scholars say, "Hands are raised only at the first takbir." This is the view of the people of Küfe and Sevri. It is reported that Ibn al-Mubarak said about the funeral prayer: "The right hand is not tied over the left hand in the funeral prayer." Some other scholars say: "Just as it is done in prayer, the right hand is tied over the left hand." I think it's nicer to have hands tied.
1099-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A believer's soul, head and heart are attached to it until his debt is paid off.” (Ibn Majah, Loyalty: 20)
1100-) Again, according to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A believer’s head and heart are stuck in his debt until his debt is paid.” (Ibn Majah, Sadakat: 12) This hadith is hasan and is stronger than the first hadith.
1101-) According to a narration from Abu Ayyub (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Four things are among the sunnahs of all prophets. Feelings of shame, wearing perfume, using miswak and getting married.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) Osman, Sevban, Ibn Mas'ud, Aisha, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Abu Najih, Jabir and Akkaf. The hadith of Abu Ayyub is hasan garib.
1102-) Mahmud b. Hidas al-Baghdadi Abbad b. Makhûl, through Avvam, narrated a similar narration of Hafs from Abu Shimal Abu Ayyub. This hadith is Hüseym, Muhammed b. It was narrated from Hajjaj, Makhûl and Abu Ayyub by Yazid al-Wâsitî, Abu Muaviye and many others, but they did not mention Abuş Şimal in their deed. Hafs b. Gıyas and Abbad b. The hadith of Awwam is more authentic.
1103-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: One day we went out with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). We were young people who could not afford anything, and they said to us: "O young people, whoever among you can afford to marry should get married, because marriage protects the eye well against haram. His race and honor are also more protective. Those of you who cannot afford to marry should fast because fasting reduces lust.” (Bukhari, Savm: 10; Muslim, Nikah: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1104-) Hasen b. Ali el Hallal, Abdullah b. It was transmitted to us from A'mesh and Umare through Nümeyr. Many people have narrated this hadith from A'mash in this year. Abu Muawiya and Muharibi had a similar hadith from A'mesh, Ibrahim, Alkame and Abdullah b. It was transmitted to us from Mas'ud. Both hadiths are valid.
1105-) According to the narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the monastic model of not getting married.” (Nesai, Nikah: 4) Zayd b. Ahzem's narration contains the following redundancy: Qatada recited the 38th verse of the chapter of Ra'd: "We sent prophets before you, and we gave them wives and children..." In this regard, Sa'd, Anas b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik, Aisha and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Samura is hasan garib. This hadith was narrated by Eş'as b. Abdulmalik; Hasan, Sa'd b. He narrated similarly from Hisham and Aisha. Both of his narrations are said to be authentic.
1106-) Sa'd b. According to a narration from Ebî Vakkâs (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) He had refused to accept Maz'un's oath to stay away from women, who were in a position to abandon the world. We would have castrated ourselves if he had let him.” (Bukhari, Nikah: 8; Muslim, Nikah: 1) This hadith is hasan sahih.
1107-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person whose religion and morals you like turns out to be a suitor for your daughter, marry your daughter to him. If you do not do this, there will be strife and a great moral degradation in the world.” (Ibn Mâce, Nikah: 46; Bukhari, Nikah: 16) A hadith was also reported from Abu Hatim el Muzeni and Aisha. Abdulhamid b. There are different opinions about Solomon, Leys b. Sa'd narrated this hadith from Ibn Aclan and Abu Huraira as a mursal. Muhammad says: Lays's narration is more appropriate, but the hadith narrated by Abdulhamid is not considered acceptable.
1108-) According to a narration from Abu Hatim al-Museumi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person whose religion and morals you like, marry your daughter to him. If you do not do so, there will be strife and corruption on earth.” O Messenger of Allah! They said: "What will happen if that person lacks wealth and equivalence? They said: "If it comes to you whose religion and morals you like, marry your daughter to her." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Abu Hatim el Muzeni was a person who saw and talked to the Prophet, and we do not know his narration other than this hadith.
1109-) According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A woman is married because of her three characteristics; Religion, property, and beauty, may you choose the pious one and be in constant blessings.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) Awf b. Malik, Aisha, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr and Abu Said. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound.
1110-) Muğre b. According to a narration from Shu'ba (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to him, “Look before you marry because this is a necessary condition for you to be able to come to an understanding and love one another.” (Muslim, Nikah: 12; Bukhari, Nikah: 36) Muhammad b. Hadith was also narrated from Maslama, Jabir, Abu Humayd and Abu Hurayra. This hadith is hasan. Some scholars apply this hadith and say that there is no harm in looking at the non-haram (hand and face) parts of the woman. Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. The meaning of the expression “Ahra en yü'deme beyneküma” means: “This is necessary for you to love one another”.
1111-) Muhammed b. According to a narration from Hatib al-Jumahi, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Haram marriage: "The distinguishing feature between marriage and halal marriage is playing the tambourine and making an announcement." (Nesai, Nikah: 72; Bukhari, Nikah: 49) hadiths were also narrated from Aisha, Jabir and Rubeyyi bint Muavviz. Tirmidhi: Muhammed b. The hadith of Hatib is hasan. Belc's name is Yahya b. Abi Sulaym. It is also said in Ibn Sulaym. Muhammed b. Hatib saw the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) when he was a small child.
1112-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do it by declaring the marriage not secret, do it with crowds such as mosques, which are crowded places, and play the tambourine to make it clear that the marriage is taking place.” (As narrated by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib hasan. Isa b. It has been noted that Maymun al-Ansari was weak in hadith. Narrating exegesis from Ibn Abi Najih, Isa b. The monkey is a trusted person.
1113-) According to a narration from Rübeyyi' (radiy-Allâhu anha), the daughter of Muavviz, she said: “The next day when I became a bride, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to me and sat on my bed as you are sitting now. Meanwhile, some girls were playing the tambourine for us and voicing the heroism of those of our fathers who were martyred on the Day of Badr. One of these girls said: "Right now there is a Prophet among us, he knows what will happen tomorrow." Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to her: “Stop this and say what you used to say.” (Bukhari, Nikah: 48; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 51) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1114-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) congratulated a married person; “May Allah give you and him blessings in terms of life, deeds and sustenance. May you always be together in goodness.” (Ibn Mâce, Nikah: 23; Nesâî, Nikah: 73) In this regard, Ali b. A hadith was also narrated from Abi Talib. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
1115-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When one of you has sexual intercourse with his wife, he should say: "In the name of Allah, O Allah! Keep us away from the devil and protect him from his evil. (Ibn Mace, Nikah: 16) This hadith is hasan.
1116-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) married me in the month of Shawwal and wedded him in the month of Shawwal." Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) considered it mustahab for women to perform wedding ceremonies in Shawwal. (Nesai, Nikah: 77) This hadith is hasan authentic. We know this hadith only from the narration of Sevri from Ismail.
1117-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wasallam) Abdurrahman b. He saw a trace of yellow paint on Avf, on which the grooms were crawling, and asked, "What is this?" Thereupon, Abdurrahman b. Avf said, "I married a woman with five dirhams of gold." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "May Allah bless this wedding for you, give a wedding feast even if it is with a sheep." (Bukhari, Nikah: 68; Muslim, Nikah: 89) In this regard, Ibn Mas'ud, Aisha, Jabir, Zuhayr b. A hadith was also narrated from Osman. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic. b. Hanbal says: The weight of a golden seed: "It is as much as three dirhams and one third dirham." Ishaq is as much as five dirhams and one third dirham.
1118-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Huyey gave a wedding meal made of kavut and dates for his daughter Safiyya.” (Ibn Majah, Nikah: 24) This hadith is hasan garib.
1119-) Muhammed b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Sufyan through Yahya Humaydi. Many people refer to this hadith as Sufyan b. He narrated from Uyeyna, Zuhri and Anas, and in these narrations; They do not say "from Vail, from his father or from his son". Sûfyan b. In this hadith, the Uyayna is in a position to cheat. In other words, in some of his narrations he says "From Vail and his father", but in some of his narrations he does not.
1120-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: “The meal given on the first day of the wedding is necessary. The meals given on the second day are sunnah, and the meals served on the third day are just show off. Whoever shows off at the wedding feast in this world, Allah will reward him for showing off on the Day of Judgment.” (It was narrated by Tirmidhi.) As the hadith of Ibn Mas'ud, only Ziyad b. We know from the narration of Abdullah. Ziyd b. Abdullah has many inaccurate and strange narrations. Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail Muhammad b. He told us that Ukba narrated from Waki: “Ziyâd b. Although Abdullah was a respectable person, he lied in the hadith narration.”
1121-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When you are called, accept the invitation." (Bukhari, Nikah: 72) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ali, Abu Huraira, Bara, Enes and Abu Ayyub. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic.
1122-) According to the narration from Abu Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man named Abu Shuayb said to his slave, who was a butcher, to cook enough food for me for five people because I realized that he was hungry because of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). . Thereupon, the slave made a meal and sent a message to invite those sitting with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) got up and was leaving, a person who was not with him followed suit and joined them. When the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) reached the door of the house to which they were invited, he said to the owner of the house: "At the moment you invited us, someone who was not with us also hung up on us. If you let us, he will also enter." The landlord said, "We're giving permission," he said. (Bukhari, Et'ime: 57; Muslim, Eşribe: 19) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith has also been narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh) on this subject.
1123-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: I married a woman and came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said, "O Jabir, are you married? they ordered. I said yes, too. “Did you get a daughter or a widow?” they ordered. “No, I got a widow,” I said. “Couldn't you find a single girl? you used to play with him and he with you”. I said: "My father Abdullah died, leaving seven or nine children, so that he could run their business, I preferred an old and widowed person." Then he prayed for me. (Bukhari, Nikah: 9; Abu Dâvûd, Nikah: 3) On this subject, Ubay b. Ka'b and Ka'b b. A hadith was also reported from Ucre. Jabir b. The hadith of Abdullah is hasan authentic.
1124-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Marriage is never permissible without parents." (Ebû Dâvûd: Nikah: 18; İbn Mâce, Nikah: 15) Aisha, Ibn Abbas, Abu Hurayra, Imran b. Hadith was also narrated from Husayn and Anas.
1125-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a woman is married without the permission of her guardian, her marriage is void, her marriage is void, and her marriage is void. If the person who is married without permission is with that woman, the mahr should be given to the woman. If the parents of this woman cannot settle the matter and come into conflict, the authorized statesman is the guardian of those who do not have such guardians.” (Ibn Majah, Nikah: 15) This hadith is hasan. Yahya b. Said el Ensari, Yahya b. Ayyub and Sufyan as-Sawri and many hadith memorizers narrated a similar hadith from Ibn Jurayc. There is disagreement in the hadith of Abu Musa. This hadith is reported by Israel, Shurayk b. Abdullah, Ebû Avane, Züheyr b. Muaviye, Kays b. Rabi' narrated to us from Abu Ishaq, Burda and Abu Musa. Esbat b. Muhammed, Zayd b. Hubab was Yunus b. They have been transmitted to us from Ebî Ishaq, Abu Burda and Abu Musa. Abu Ubeyde el Haddad, Yunus b. They narrated a similar one from Abu Ishaq, from Abu Burda, and from Abu Musa, but they did not mention "Abu Ishaq" in these narrations. Yunus b. Abu Ishaq narrated from Abu Ishaq, Abu Burda and Abu Musa in the same way. and Sevri; It has been narrated from Abu Ishaq and Abu Burda that "There can be no marriage without guardians". Some of Sufyan's friends narrate from Abu Ishaq, Abu Burda and Abu Musa, which is not authentic. I think the narrations from Abu Ishaq, Abu Bürde and Abu Musa, "No marriage will be valid without a guardian", are more authentic. Thawri and Shu'ba, who were stronger and more insightful than all those who narrated this hadith from Abu Ishaq, heard it from Abu Ishaq at different times. The narrations of others are more appropriate with me. Because Shu'ba and Thawri heard this hadith from Abu Ishaq at the same time.
1126-) Mahmud b. Gaylân narrates: As reported by Abu Dawud, Shu'ba reported: I heard from Sufyan as-Swri and he asked Abu Ishaq: "Did you hear from Abu Burda that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said that there would be no marriage without a guardian? Abu Ishaq said yes. The hadith points to what Shu'ba and Thawri heard from Makhul at the same time. Israel's narration from Abu Ishaq is sound and reliable. b. I heard Müsenna say: Abdurrahman b. According to what I heard from the Mahdi, he was quoting as follows: “Whatever I missed from the hadiths narrated from Abu Ishaq, I missed it because I trusted Israel. Because Israel brought the hadiths of Abu Ishaq in a more solid way.” In my opinion, the hadith "There can be no marriage without guardians" narrated by Aisha on this issue is hasan. Ibn Jurayc reported this hadith from Sulayman b. They narrated from Musa, Zuhri, Urwa and Aisha. b. Ertae and Cafer b. Rabia narrated from Zuhri, urve and Aisha. Hisham b. Urwa narrated a similar hadith from her father and Aisha. Hadith scholars talked about the Zuhri hadith from Urwa and Aisha. Jurayc says: Then, when I met Zuhri, I asked him, he said that he did not narrate it, and he did not welcome it. In this respect, the hadith is considered weak. b. Main's; It is reported that he said: Only Ismail b. Abraham has mentioned. b. Main: İsmail b. This is not what Abraham heard from Ibn Jurayj. He wrote his own notes to Abdülmecid b. Abdulaziz b. He corrected it by comparing it with the writings of Abu Rawwad and did not hear any hadith from Ibn Jurayc. Says. John; Ismail b. He considers Ibrahim's narration from Ibn Jurayc weak. The hadith of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) “No marriage can take place without a guardian” is a tradition from Umar b. al-Khattab, Ali b. Abi Talib, Abdullah b. Scholars, including Abbas and Abu Huraira, practice with this hadith. They narrate the same from the jurists of Tabi'un; It is said, "There is no marriage without parents". Said b. Müseyyeb, Hasan el Basri, Şüreyh, İbrahim Nehai, Ömer b. Abdulaziz and others are of the same opinion. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Evzâî, Abdullah b. Mubarak, Malik, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion.
1127-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Women who marry without witnesses and documents are prostitutes." (Tirmidhi narrated it.) b. Hammad says: Abdul A'la narrated this hadith as merfu in his commentary, and as mawkuf in the Talaq section.
1128-) Kutayba (radiyallahu anh), Muhammad b. He narrated similar hadiths from Cafer, Said, and Ibn Abi Aruba, and narrated them to us in a mere way, which is more robust. This hadith is not very solid. We do not know anyone who narrated this hadith as merfu, but he transferred it to us as merfu through Abdul A'la, Said and Qatada. This hadith was narrated from Abdul A'la and Said as mawkuf. The authentic narration is the hadith of Ibn Abbas, "Marriage can only be witnessed and documented". some of his friends were Qatada, Câbir b. From Zayd and Ibn Abbas; They narrated that "Marriage can only be witnessed and documented". Many people say this hadith in this way, Said b. They narrated it from Abi Arube as mawkuf. on the subject of Imran b. Hadith was also narrated from Husayn, Anas and Abu Huraira. The opinion of scholars from the time of the Tabi'un and others from the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) is based on this hadith and they say: "Marriage takes place only with witnesses." None of the early scholars in the past disagreed on this issue. Only some of the later scholars disagreed, and their disagreement is about the simultaneous presence of witnesses. and the majority of scholars said: "The marriage is not permissible unless two witnesses are present during the marriage." Some scholars are of the opinion that "It is permissible if the marriage is announced and announced and brought one after the other by the witnesses". b. Enes and others are of this opinion. Ishaq b. Ibrahim says so in a narration from the people of Medina. Scholars also say: "It is permissible to testify between one man and two women in marriage." Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1129-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) taught tashahhud, which should be done in prayers and in other times of need. The tashahhud in prayer is as follows: “All acts of worship done with our tongue, body and all our possessions are for Allah alone. All servitude and worship cannot be done to anyone other than him. Muhammad (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), the last Prophet, may Allah's mercy, blessings and peace be upon you. Again, may the peace and happiness of Allah be upon us and upon the servants of Allah who do good deeds. I accept and testify that there is no true god but Allah. Again, I accept and testify that Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) is the servant and Prophet of Allah.” The tashahhud in the areas of need is as follows: “All praise is due to that God. We always ask him for help, we ask his forgiveness. We seek refuge in Allah from the evil of our selves and the evil of our deeds. Whoever Allah guides to the right path, there is no one to mislead him. And whoever misleads, there is no one to guide him. and I accept and testify that there is no true god but Allah. And again, I accept and testify that Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) is Allah’s servant and prophet.” Mas'ud; and said that three verses should be read. He said: Sûfyan as-Tevri explained those three verses as follows. 1- O you who believe, definitely try to find your way through the book of Allah and die only as a Muslim (3 Âl-i Imran: 102) 2- … Always be conscious of Allah and observe ties of kinship. Surely, Allah is always watching over you. (4 Nisa: 1) 3- O you who believe, always try to find your way with the book of Allah and always tell the truth and the truth. (33 Ahzab: 70) (Ebû Dâvûd, Nikah: 31; Bukhari, Nikah: 48) Adiyy b. Hadith was also narrated from Hatem. The hadith of Abdullah is hasan. This hadith is narrated from A'mash, Abu Ishaq, Abul Ahvas and Abdullah b. He narrated from Mas'ud. Shu'ba: Abu Ishaq, Abu Ubeyde and Abdullah b. He narrated from Mas'ud. Shu'be: Ebnu Ishaq, Abu Ubeyde and Abdullah b. He narrated from Mas'ud. It is true in two narrations. Because Israel gathered both narrations together, from Abul Ishaq, Abul Ahvas, Abu Ubayda and Abdullah b. He narrated from Mas'ud. Some scholars say: "Marriage is also permissible without a speech". Some scholars and Sûfyan es Sevrî are among them.
1130-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Every speech that does not contain Tashahhud is half and incomplete like a bald hand.” (Abu Dawud, Nikah: 31; Bukhari, Nikah: 48)
1131-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A widow does not marry unless she is consulted with, and the girl's marriage is not performed unless her permission is taken, and the girl's permission is her silence." (İbn Mâce, Nikah: 11; Muslim, Nikah: 9) On this subject, Ömer, İbn Abbas, Aisha and Urs b. A hadith was also narrated from Amira. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Scholars practice with this hadith. According to the majority of scholars, the widow does not get married unless she is consulted. men disputed over the marriage of virgin girls by their fathers. If the majority of Küfeli and other scholars marry a father without permission from his daughter, if the girl does not accept it, this marriage is invalid. Some of the scholars of Madina say that it is permissible for a father to marry his daughter even if he does not want a daughter. b. Enes, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion.
1132-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A widow has more right than her guardian to choose whom to marry. A single person's permission to get married is taken, his permission is his silence." (Ibn Majah, Nikah: 11; Muslim: Nikah: 9) This hadith is hasan authentic. Shu'be and Sevrî, Malik b. They are narrating from Enes. Although some people have cited this hadith as evidence that marriage without a guardian is permissible, there is nothing in this hadith to prove them. Because, the hadith "Marriage is never permissible without guardians" was narrated from Ibn Abbas in various ways, and Ibn Abbas gave a fatwa according to this hadith; He says, "Marriage is not permissible without a guardian". The widow of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) has more right than her guardian to choose her marriage. The meaning of his word, according to the majority of scholars, is as follows: His guardian can only marry the widow with his order and consent. If she gets married without her consent, her marriage is invalid according to the Hansa hadith, the daughter of Khidr. Namely, he had married this woman while his father was a widow, but when he did not want this marriage, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) refused that man's marriage.
1133-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Her permission is obtained for the marriage of a fatherless girl.” If he keeps silent, it means his permission. If he doesn't accept it, it can't be reached. (In other words, the subject of marriage is conveyed to him and it means if he does not accept and refuses.) (Abu Dâvûd, Nikah: 22) A hadith was also reported from Abu Musa, Ibn Omar and Aisha on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Scholars have put forward different views on the marriage of orphan girls; Part of it: If an orphan girl gets engaged at a young age, it means that this marriage has been stopped until she becomes sane. When he reaches maturity, he has the authority to invalidate and validate this marriage. Some of the Tabi'un and later scholars are of this opinion. Some scholars say: It is not permissible to marry an orphan until he reaches puberty. It is not permissible to choose in marriage. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafi'i and some of the scholars are of this opinion. Ahmed and Ishaq say: An orphan girl can be married when she reaches the age of nine. If he agrees, the marriage is permissible. There is no such thing as the right to choose once you reach puberty. Ahmed and Ishaq use Aisha's marriage to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) at the age of nine as evidence. Aisha says: "A girl is considered a woman when she reaches the age of nine."
1134-) Samura b. According to a narration from Jundub (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a woman marries two parents or two separate men, that woman belongs to the man who was married first from those men. Whoever sells a piece of property to two different customers, that property belongs to the first sale from those two men.” (Abu Dawud, Nikah: 21) This hadith is hasan. Scientists do their practice with this hadith, we do not know that there is a disagreement on this issue. If two parents marry one woman to two men, the first marriage is permissible, the other marriage is void. If both parents get married at the same time, both marriages are invalid. Sevri, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion.
1135-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If a slave marries without the permission of his master, he is considered to have committed adultery." (Abu Dawud, Nikah: 16) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith of Jabir is hasan. Some say this hadith from Abdullah b. Muhammed b. It is narrated from Akil and Ibn Umar that it is not authentic. The authentic narration is Abdullah b. Muhammed b. It is the narration of the mind by Jabir. Scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods apply this hadith and say: "The marriage of a slave is not permissible without the permission of his master." Ahmad, Ishaq and others think so without controversy.
1136-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a slave marries without permission from his master, he is deemed to have committed adultery.” (Abu Dawud, Nikah: 16) the hadith is hasan authentic.
1137-) Asim b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abdullah b. Âmir b. I heard from Rabia's father that a woman from the sons of Fezare got married in exchange for a pair of shoes. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "Are you satisfied with all your wealth and a pair of shoes for yourself?" They commanded. The woman said “Yes”. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) considered her marriage permissible. (Ibn Majah: Nikah: 17) In this regard, Ömer, Abu Huraira, Sahl b. Hadith was also narrated from Sa'd, Abu Said, Enes, Aisha, Jabir and Abu Hadred al-Aslemi. Âmir b. The hadith of Rabia is hasan authentic. Scholars have put forward different opinions about the amount of mihri. Some say: "It is the amount that both parties are satisfied with". Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. b. Enes says: The mahr cannot be less than a quarter dinar. And the people of Kufeli say: Mahr cannot be less than ten dirhams.
1138-) Sahl b. According to the narration from Sa'd es Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anh), a woman came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said; He waited for a long time, saying, "I donated myself to you." Thereupon, a man said: “O Messenger of Allah! If you don't need that woman, marry her to me." (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Do you have anything to give that woman as mahr? he commanded. The man said: "I only have this dress." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When you give your dress to that woman, you will be left without a dress, try to find something." The man said: "I can't find it". The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Try to find it, even if it is an iron ring." Sahl b. Sa'd says: The man was searched but found nothing. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, “Is there anything from the Qur'an that you have memorized? said. The man said, "I memorize such and such surahs" and counted their names. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "I married that woman to you in return for teaching that woman the surahs you have memorized from the Qur'an." (Muslim, Nikah: 13; Nesai, Nikah: 69) This hadith is hasan authentic. Shafi'i practices with this hadith and says: "If the man does not have something to give as mahr to the woman, if he marries in exchange for a surah that he will teach from the Qur'an, the marriage is permissible." Scholars also say: "The marriage is permissible, but if he gets it later, he has to give a similar mahr." The people of Ishaq and Kufa are of this opinion.
1139-) Umar b. According to the narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Look! Do not raise women's dowries too high. If only increasing the mahr was an honor in this world and a good model of Islam in the sight of Allah. The Messenger of Allah would have deserved it more than any of you. However, I do not know that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) married any of his women to himself, nor did he marry any of his daughters to others, in exchange for more than twelve okyyas.” (Abu Dawud, Nikah: 28; Ibn Majah, Nikah: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ebûl Acfa es Sülemî's name is Herm. According to scholars, one Uqiyya is forty dirhams. Twelve Uqiyyas are worth four hundred and eighty dirhams.
1140-) Enes b. According to what is reported from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) liberated Safiyya and considered it mahr to get her free by marrying her.” (Muslim, Nikah: 14; Nesai, Nikah: 65) The hadith of Anas is hasan. Some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods practice their practices with this hadith. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq hold this view. Some scholars, on the other hand, do not like the emancipation of a concubine to be considered mehir, and they also say that it is necessary to give mahr. But the first view is more correct.
1141-) According to a narration from the father of Abu Musa (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "There are three people whose reward is doubled;
1142-) Ibn Abi Omar, through Sufyan Salih b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Salih (whose name is Ibn Hay.), Sha'bi, Abu Burda, and Abu Musa. The hadith of Abu Musa is hasan authentic. Abu Burda b. Abî Musa's name is Âmir b. Abdullah b. Kays. Shu'be and Sufyan es Sevrî bbu hadith Salih b. They narrated from Hay. Salih b. Hay is Hasan b. Salih b. Hay's father.
1143-) Amr b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Shuayb (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If anyone marries a woman and establishes a relationship with her, that woman's daughter is not lawful for that man; can marry. When a man marries a woman, whether or not he has sexual intercourse with her, it is never lawful for that woman to marry her mother.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) It is not valid in terms of this document. Because of this hadith, Amr b. Of Shuayb, only Ibn Lehia and Musanna b. Sabbah narrated. Musenna b. It has been noted that Sabbah and Ibn Lehia were weak in hadith. The majority of men do their practice with this hadith and say: If a person marries a woman and divorces her before having sexual intercourse with her, it is permissible for that woman to marry her daughter to him. However, if a person marries a woman's daughter and divorces her without having sexual intercourse, it is not lawful for that girl to marry her mother. (As reported in the 4th Nisa: 23rd verse) Ahmad and Ishaq are of this opinion.
1144-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) reported that she said: Rifaa al-Kurazi's wife came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: I was Rifaa's wife and she divorced me with three talaqs and made the divorce final. I also Abdurrahman b. I married Zubayr, but I found the genital part of it as loose as a fringe. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: “Do you want to return to Rifaa again? No, you can't go back to him until you taste his honey and your honey." (Nesai, Talak: 12; Muslim, Nikah: 17) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ibn Omar, Enes, Rumeysa or Gumeysa and Abu Hurayra. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. The practices of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and many scholars from later periods are based on this hadith. In other words, if a man divorces his wife with three talaqs, he marries another husband and divorces her again without matrimony, this woman will not be lawful for her first husband unless she has sexual intercourse with her second husband.
1145-) According to the narration from Haris and Ali (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), they said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed both those who do hull and those who do it.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Nikah: 15; İbn Mâce, Nikah: 33) It means that a divorced woman marries another man temporarily so that she can return to her husband.) On this subject, Ibn Mas'ud, Abu Huraira, Ukbe b. Hadith was also narrated from Amir and Ibn Abbas. There is sickness in the hadith of Ali and Jabir. This hadith is also reported by Eş'as b. Abdurrahman, from Mucalid, from Âmir (Sha'bî), from Haris, from Ali, from Âmir and Câbir b. It has been narrated from Abdullah and his document is not very solid. Because Mucalid b. Said'i, Ahmed b. Some hadith scholars, including Hanbal, considered them weak. b. Numayr, on the other hand, narrated this hadith from Mucalid, Amir, Jabir b. It was narrated from Abdullah and Ali, and Ibn Numayr was misled in this narration. The first narration is stronger and more authentic. Mughira, Ibn Abi Khalid and many others have narrated this hadith from Sha'bi, Haris and Ali.
1146-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed the husband who married with hull and the husband who was made with hull for him.” (Nesai, Talak: 13; Abu Dâvûd, Nikah: 15) This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Kays el Evdi was Abdurrahman b. It is Servan. This hadith was narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in many ways. Scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) practice their practices with this hadith. Umar b. Hattab, Osman b. Afvan, Abdullah b. Amr and others are among them. The jurists of the Tabi'i period are of the same opinion. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Carûd b. I heard from Muâz. Citing Veki, they said that he also had this view and that the views of the ijtihad parties on this issue should be discarded. He says: Vekî', narrating from Sufyan, says: If a man marries a woman for a temporary period to do hulle and then wants to keep that woman with him, it is not halal for him to keep that woman with him unless he gets married with a new marriage.
1147-) Ali b. According to the narration from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade women to marry for a short time temporarily, to eat the meat of domestic donkeys, on the day of Khyber.” (Abu Dâvûd, Nikah: 13; Nesai, Nikah: 71) A hadith was also reported from Sabre al-Cuheni and Abu Huraira on this subject. The hadith of Ali is hasan authentic. The practices of scholars from the companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods are according to this hadith. Although there is a narration from Ibn Abbas that temporary marriage is permissible, he reneged on this promise when the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was informed about temporary marriage. The majority of the men agreed that temporary marriage is haram. Sevri, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1148-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Temporary marriage existed at the beginning of Islam. When a man went to a country where he had no acquaintances, he would marry a woman as long as he stayed there. They kept the belongings of that woman and that man and did their necessary services. This type of marriage was abolished when the 6th verse of the chapter of Mu'minun: "Only for their families and the concubines under their control..." was revealed. Abbas says: Any relationship with any woman other than these two women is haram. (Ebû Dâvûd, Nikah: 13; Nesai, Nikah: 71)
1149-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is no marriage model of celeb, janeb and shigar in Islam. Whoever usurps someone's property by force is not one of us." (Ebû Dâvûd, Nikah: 14; Ibn Mâce, Nikah: 16) It means that the officer who collects zakat brings the zakat to his feet without going to the zakat goods, or that the racer assigns someone else to speed his animal so that his horse can go faster. It is the removal of the Zakat property of the person who will give zakat away from the place where the measurement will be made, or having a spare horse in order to win the competition in horse races. It is the marriage of two people to a woman who is close to each other in order to receive or not to pay the mahr. This hadith is hasan authentic. In this regard, Enes, Abu Reyhan, Ibn Omar, Jabir, Muaviye, Abu Huraira and Vâil b. Hadith was also narrated from Hucr.
1150-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade marriage in the form of Shigar.” (Abu Dawud, Nikah: 14; Ibn Majah, Nikah: 16) This hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars practice with this hadith. They are of the opinion that the shigar marriage is not valid. It consists of marrying the daughter or sister of the other party in return for the marriage of one's daughter without any mahr between them. Scholars say that the shghar marriage is invalid and not permissible even if the mahr is determined for both. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq think like this. b. According to the narration from Abî Rebah, he said: By having the marriages of both parties accepted and approved, the mahr is determined as much as the values of that day. This is the view of the people of Kufa.
1151-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “He forbade a woman to marry with her aunt or aunt.” (Nesai, Nikah: 14; Bukhari, Nikah: 28) Hüreyz's name was Abdullah b. Huseyn.
1152-) Nasr b. Ali; Abdul Â'la through Hisham b. He narrated a similar hadith from Hassan, Ibn Sirin, and Abu Huraira. In this regard, Ali, Ibn Umar, Abdullah b. Amr, Abu Said, Abu Umama, Jabir, Aisha, Abu Musa and Samura b. Hadith was also narrated from Jundub.
1153-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to the woman's aunt; He forbade the marriage of an aunt's sister's daughter, or to the woman's aunt, or to the aunt's sister's daughter. The younger ones are not married to the elders (that is, the girls' aunts and aunts) and the older ones are not to the younger ones (that is, the aunts and aunts are married).” (Nesai, Nikah: 14; Bukhari, Nikah: 28) The hadith of Ibn Abbas and Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. The majority of scholars do their practices with this hadith. We do not know whether there is a conflict between them. It is as follows: It is not permissible for a man to gather a woman and her aunt and aunt under marriage. If he marries a woman to his aunt, or to his aunt, or to his sister's daughter, the marriage of the latter is invalid. The majority of scholars hold this view. Sha'bi caught up with Abu Huraira and narrated hadiths from him. When I asked about this, he said "It is true". Sha'bi; He narrated a hadith from Abu Huraira through a man.
1154-) Ukbe b. According to the narration from Amir al-Juheni (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The most worthy of conditions are those in which you make women permissible for you.” (Bukhari, Nikah: 54; Nesai, Nikah: 42)
1155-) Abu Musa, Muhammad b. Müsenna, Yahya b. Said by Abdulhamid b. He narrated a similar hadith from Jafar. This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) use this hadith. Umar b. Khattab is one of them and says: "If a man marries a woman, so as not to drive her out of his country, he cannot drive her out of his country." Some scholars are of the same opinion. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. It is narrated from Ali: "Allah's condition is fulfilled first over the condition of a woman." By saying this, Ali (radiyallahu anh) says that if some obligations such as (necessity and migration) arise on this condition of the woman, a man can come out. Some scholars say that if the same obligations arise, a man may emerge. Some scholars think the same way. Like Sûfyan es Sevrî and some kufeli.
1156-) According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): “In the period of ignorance, Gaylân b. Salama es-Sakafi had ten wives. They all became Muslims with him. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered him to choose four of them and leave the others." (Ibn Majah, Nikah: 40; Abu Dâvûd, Talak: 24) Likewise, Ma'mer narrated this hadith from Zuhri, Sâlim and his father. Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail that he was saying: This hadith is not very sound. The narration that is true and sound; Shuayb b. It is narrated from Abu Hamza and others, Zuhri and Hamza: “Muhammad b. According to what is reported to me from Suveyd al-Sakafi, Gaylân b. Salama became a Muslim when he was married to ten women.” He says: Zuhri's narration from Salim, his father, is as follows: "A quiet man divorced his wives, and Omar said to that man: "Either you return to your wives whom you divorced (unjustly) or I will stone your grave like Abu Rigal, whose grave was stoned." Some of the hadith writers said that Gaylân b. They practice according to the hadith of Salama. Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1157-) Fairuz ed Deylemî (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported from his father, that he said: “I came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah, I have become a Muslim, there are two sisters under my marriage. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Choose whichever one you want and leave the other one." (Abu Dawud, Talak: 25; Bukhari, Nikah: 27)
1158-) Fairuz ed Deylemî (radiy-Allâhu anh), quoting from his father, said: “O Messenger of Allah, I have become a Muslim, I have two sisters under my marriage, what should I do? “Choose one of the two,” they said. (Abu Dawud, Talak: 25; Ibn Majah, Nikah: 39)
1159-) Ruveyfi' b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A person who believes in Allah and the Last Day, buys a concubine that he bought or captured in war, without waiting for it to be cleaned or before it becomes clear whether she is pregnant or not. Don't let him water it." (Abu Dawud, Nikah: 44) This hadith is hasan. Ruveyfi' b. It has been narrated from Sabit in different ways. Scholars do their practice with this hadith and are of the opinion that he should not have sexual intercourse with his concubine, whom he obtained while pregnant, until he gives birth. In this regard, Abu'd Darda, Ibn Abbas, Irbad b. Hadith was also narrated from Sariye and Abu Said.
1160-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: The captive women who had our share in the Evtas war had their own husbands. This situation was reported to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and the verse of 4 Nisa: 24 was revealed: "It is forbidden for you by Allah's law to marry all married women, except for the concubines you captured as captives during the war..." (Abu Dawud, Nikah: 44) This hadith is hasan. Sevri narrated this hadith from Osman al-Betti, Abul Halil and Abu Said. Ebul Halil's name was Salih b. Ebi Meryem.
1161-) Hemmâm narrated this hadith from Qatada, Salih b. It was narrated from Ebî Halil, Abu Alkame al-Hashimi and Abu Said. In this way, Abd b. Humayd tells us from Hemmâm and Habban b. Transferred from Hilal.
1162-) According to what was narrated from Abu Mas'ud al-Ansariyya (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the money obtained from the buying and selling of dogs, the income from adultery and the money earned from fortune-telling. ” (Bukhari, Magic: 113; Muslim, Musaka: 9) Rafi' b. Hadith was also narrated from Hadic, Abu Juhayfa, Abu Huraira and Ibn Abbas. Tirmidhi: The hadith of Abu Mas'ud is hasan authentic.
1163-) This hadith reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): Kutayba conveyed it to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and Ahmed b. Hanbal, on the other hand, quoted us as saying that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "A Muslim should not sell on the sale of his Muslim brother and should not demand marriage after his Muslim brother's request for marriage." (Ibn Majah, Nikah: 10; Nesai, Nikah: 20) A hadith was also reported from Samura and Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. b. Enes says: The unpleasant thing about the prohibition of one's brethren on his brother's courtesy is this: If a man wants a woman and he likes that man, then it would not be appropriate for anyone to go to that woman. He says: This is the meaning of the hadith "Let him not let his brother know that he is dead". If a man wants a woman, and a woman wants that man and is inclined towards him, no one has the right to be related to that woman. However, it is okay for a woman to be a pastor before she knows how to like that man and incline towards him. The hadith of Fatima, the daughter of Kays, may be evidence for this. It is as follows: "Fatimah b. Kays came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and went to Abu Jahm b. Huzeyfe and Muawiya b. Abî Sufyan told him that they were dead and wanted to get the opinion of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Abu Jahm is a man who beats his women. Muawiyah, on the other hand, is a penniless person. If you're going to marry, choose Usama." For us, the meaning of this hadith is: Allah knows better. Fatima did not say that she liked one of the two people she told. If he had, he would not have recommended a third party to him.
1164-) Abu Bakr b. According to the narration from Jahm (radiyallahu anh), he said: I and Abu Salama b. Abdurrahman Fatima b. We went to Kays. She told us that her husband divorced her with three talaqs, did not show her a place to sit and did not give her food and drink, and said: “My uncle left ten measures of food for his son for me, five measures of barley and five measures of wheat…” He continued as follows: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh)' I came to e and explained the situation. "Is it true what your husband did?" They ordered me and ordered me to fill the period of iddah in Umm Sharik's house, and then said: "Umm Sharik's house is a house where immigrants come and go a lot, now you should fill the iddah in Ibn Umm Maktub's house if you throw off your outer clothes because she can't see her eyes. You will not see it and you will feel more comfortable in that house. If your iddad ends and a day comes to you, let me know..!” When it was over, Abu Jahm and Muawiya became my in-laws. Fatima says: Thereupon, I came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and informed him of the situation. Abu Jahm, on the other hand, is someone who treats women harshly.” Fatima said: Then Usama b. Zayd was born to me and married me and Allah made me happy with Usama." (Muslim, Talak: 6; Abu Dâvûd, Nikah: 39) This hadith is authentic.
1165-) Sufyan es-Sevri reported this hadith from Abu Bakr b. Abu Jahm in a similar way and added the following: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "Marry me to Usama." This hadith is transmitted to us from Sufyan through Mahmud, Vekî, Abu Bakr b. He narrated it from Abu Jahm in this way.
1166-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: "O Messenger of Allah, we made the semen flow out during sexual intercourse by performing Azil, Jews; We said, "They claim that this is like killing children when they are young and burying them in the ground." Then they said: "The Jews lie, nothing can prevent what Allah wants to create." (Bukhari, Nikah: 97; Muslim, Nkah: 22) On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Omar, Bara, Abu Huraira and Abu Said.
1167-) Again, according to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We used to impeach when the revelation of the Qur'an was sent down.” (Bukhari, Nikah; 97; Muslim, Nikah: 22) The hadith of Jabir is hasan and has been narrated from him in different ways. Some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods allowed impeachment. b. Enes says: A free woman's permission should be obtained for dismissal. There is no need to get permission for the concubine.
1168-) According to what is reported from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Why are you doing this?” they asked. (Bukhari, Nikah: 97; Muslim, Nikah: 22) There is the following redundancy in the narration of Ibn Abi Omar: He did not say, "None of you should do this." Both of them said in their narrations: “He is not a soul whose creation was ordained. If God wanted, He would have created it.” A hadith was also reported from Jabir on this subject. The hadith of Abu Said is hasan. This hadith was also narrated from Abu Said in different ways, and some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods did not tolerate impeachment.
1169-) Ebû Kâlâbe, Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), he said: If I wanted to, I would say that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Malik said: "If a man marries a virgin, he can stay with the virgin for a week. If he makes his second marriage to a widow, that widow can stay with him for three days, and he does not have to visit his khans every other day, this is sunnah.” (Bukhari, Nikah: 101-102; Muslim, Rada: 12) A hadith was also reported from Umm Salama on this subject. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic. Muhammed b. Ishaq narrated this hadith from Ayyub, Abu Qilabe and Anas as merfu. Some of them did not narrate as merfu. Some scholars do their practice with this hadith and say that if a man marries a virgin for a second, he stays with her for a week continuously, then divides the days equally between the two of them and continues to stay every other day. If he makes his second marriage to a widow, that widow stays with him for three days and then divides the days equally. Malik, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. Some scholars of the period also say: "If a person marries a virgin for three days, he stays with her for three days, and a widow stays for two days." The first view is more authentic and more robust.
1170-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) divided the nights among his wives to ensure justice and used to say: “My God, this is the division I can do. Do not condemn me and do not take me to account in matters that are within your power and not in my power." (Abu Dâvûd, Nikah: 37; Bukhari, Nikah: 100) This is the hadith of Aisha. many people Hammad b. From Salama, Eyyub, Abu Qalabe, Abdullah b. Yazid and Aisha narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) would divide his nights. b. Zayd and many others narrated from Ayyub as a mursal from Abu Qalabe: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to divide his nights among his wives," and Hammad b. This narration is more authentic than Salama's narration.
1171-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a man has two wives and does not act justly between them, one side of him will come crooked and low on the Day of Judgment.” (Ibn Mâce, Nikah: 18; Abu Dâvûd, Nikah: 37) This hadith is only attributed to Hemmâm b. Yahya narrated from Qatada as musnad. Hisham ed Destevai narrated it to us, quoting from Qatada, as "it was said...". We know this hadith as merfu only through the narration of Hemmâm. Hemmâm is a reliable and hadith memorizer.
1172-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) married his daughter Zaynab with a new marriage and a new mahr and her husband Abul As b. He gave it back to Rabi.” (Ibn Majah, Nikah: 18; Abu Dâvûd, Nikah: 30) The evidence of this hadith was mentioned by hadith scholars. It has also been mentioned about the other hadith. Scholars practice with this hadith. If a woman becomes a Muslim before her husband and then her husband, if the woman becomes a Muslim before the woman ends the waiting period, the woman belongs to that husband as long as she is in the iddat. Malik b. Enes, Evzai, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq also hold this view.
1173-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) married his daughter Zaynab six years later to Abul As b. He refused Rabi with his first marriage, and he did not need a new one.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Nikah: 30; İbn Mâce, Nikah: 18) There is nothing wrong with the certificate of this hadith. But we do not know the true direction of this narration. This obscurity Dâvûd b. It could be because of Husayn's poor memory.
1174-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "A man came as a Muslim in the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and then his wife came as a Muslim, that man said: O Messenger of Allah! He said he had become a Muslim with me. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) returned that woman to that man. (Abu Dawud, Talak: 23; Ibn Majah, Nikah: 60) This hadith is authentic. Abd b. I heard this hadith from Humayd Muhammad b. He transmitted it to us from Isaac.
1175-) Haccac's Amr b. Regarding the hadith that he narrated from Shuayb, his father and grandfather: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) turned his daughter Zaynab back to Abul As with a new mahr and a new marriage. Harun says: The hadith of Ibn Abbas is more perfect in terms of senad. The practice of scholars Amr b. It is about the Shuayb hadith.
1176-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): He was asked about a person who died before marrying a woman and not determining his mahr and having sexual intercourse with him, and Ibn Mas'ud replied: Mehri should be given, neither more nor less, that woman should wait for the period of iddah. He gets his share of the inheritance as well.” Thereupon, Ma'qil b. Sinan al-Ashcai got up and said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave the same judgment as you gave about Birva, the daughter of Vasik, one of the women of our tribe." Thereupon, Ibn Mas'ud was happy. (Abu Dâvûd, Nikah: 31; Ibn Mâce, Nikah: 18) A hadith was also reported from Jarrah on this subject.
1177-) Hasan b. Ali el Hallal, Yazid b. He narrated a similar hadith from Sufyan and Mansur through each of Harun and Abdurrezzak. The hadith of Ibn Mas'ud is hasan authentic. This hadith has been narrated from him in different ways. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods practiced on this hadith, such as Sevri, Ahmed and Ishaq. Some scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) Ali b. Ebî Tâlib, Zeyd b. Thabit, Ibn Abbas and Ibn Omar are among them. that woman inherits but does not need mahr, she has to wait for iddah. Shafi'i thinks like this. Shafii says: I think if the hadith of Birva, Vaşık's daughter, had been solid and stable, it could have been a proof in this regard. It is also reported that after this statement of Shafii, he returned to the hadith of Birva, the daughter of Vasik, in Egypt.
1178-) Ali b. According to a narration from Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whatever Allah made unlawful in terms of lineage, he also made it unlawful in terms of suckling.” (Nesai, Nikah: 51; Ibn Majah: Nikah: 34) A hadith was also narrated from Aisha, Ibn Abbas and Umm Habibe on this subject. The hadith of Ali is hasan authentic. Many scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods used this hadith to practice their practices.
1179-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Allah has forbidden those whom He has made unlawful in terms of birth, also in terms of suckling.” (Nesai, Nikah: 51; Ibn Majah: Nikah: 34) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods used this hadith to practice their practices.
1180-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) reported that she said: The person who was my uncle in terms of suckling came and asked permission to enter me. I did not agree to allow him unless I received an order from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). Let the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) come in, he is in the place of your uncle. Aisha said: His wife breastfed me, she said, not her husband. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "He is your uncle, let him come with you." (Bukhari, Nikah: 118; Muslim, Rada: 2) This hadith is hasan. Some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods apply this hadith, and they do not tolerate Lebenel Fahli (that is, making the husbands of those who breastfeed because of breastfeeding unlawful). The hadith is true in this regard. Some scholars also gave permission to Leben-ül Fahle (that is, they were convinced that women who breastfeed due to breastfeeding should be protected from their husbands). The first view is more correct.
1181-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the following was asked about a man who had two concubines: “One of these concubines nursed a boy and the other a girl. Can these two children marry each other later? Ibn Abbas said: "No, they do not get married, both concubines were irrigated with the semen of the same man, so the vaccine is one." (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is the main evidence on this subject. Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion.
1182-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “It is not haram to suckle once or twice.” (Muslim, Rada: 5; Ibn Majah, Nikah: 35) Ummul Fadl, Abu Huraira, Zubayr b. A hadith was also narrated from Awwam, Ibn Zubayr. Sucking or sucking twice does not make it haram” many people like Hisham b. Urwa's father and Abdullah b. They narrated from Zubayr. b. Dinar reported this hadith from Hisham b. From Urwa, from his father, Abdullah b. He narrated from Zubayr. b. In a narration by Dinar al-Basri, there is the addition of "Zubayr", which is not very acceptable. The narration, which was accepted as acceptable and authentic by the hadithists, was written by Abdullah b. These are the narrations from Zubayr and Aisha. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. I asked him about this hadith and he said: The authentic narration is the narrations of Ibn-uz-Zubayr and Aisha. Muhammed b. He added Dinar and Zubayr that the narration was written by Hisham b. It means from the father of Urwa and Zubayr. Some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later people apply this hadith.
1183-) Aisha says: "A certain amount of ten suctions" was revealed in the Qur'an, then the provision of five of them was abolished and translated as "five suctions in a certain amount". In this way, Ishaq b. Mûsâ al-Ansari, from Ma'n through Ma'n, Abdullah b. It was narrated from Abu Bakr, Amra and Aisha. Some wives of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and Aisha issued a fatwa in this way. Shafi'i and Ishaq also hold this view. b. Hanbal: He practices with the hadith "One or two sucking does not make it haram" and says: Whoever obeys Aisha's word in the hadith "Five sucking in a certain amount" says that opinion is sound and does not dare to say anything about it. Some scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods; They say, "What goes into the stomach makes it haram, even if it is a little bit". Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik b. enes, Evzâî, Abdullah b. Mubarak, Vekî' and the people of Küfe hold this view. b. ebi Muleyke; Abdullah b. Ubeydullah b. Ebi Müleyke. His patronymic is Abu Muhammad. Abdullah served as a judge in Taif. Jurayj relates that Ibn Abi Mulayka said: “I met about thirty of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh).
1184-) Ukbe b. It was narrated from Haris (radiyallahu anh). (Abdullah ibn Abi Mulayka said, "I heard this hadith from Uqba himself, but I understood Ubayd's narration better," says: "After I had married a woman myself, a black woman came and said that I had breastfed both of you. Thereupon, I came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said: I married the daughter of so-and-so to myself, and a black woman came and said, I breastfed both of you, and I said that she is a liar. Ukba says: “The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) turned away from me. This time I came from the side where he turned his face and said that she is a liar. Thereupon, they said: “How can you still live with that woman as husband and wife, even though she claims to breastfeed both of you? Leave it!" (Bukhari, Shahadat: 14; Abu Dâvûd, Akdıye: 18) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar on this subject. Uqbe b. Haris hadith is hasan authentic. Many people refer to this hadith from Ibn Abi Mulayka to Ukba b. They did not mention "Ubayd ibn Abi Maryam" in his deed, citing it from Haris. They didn't say "Let go of that woman" either. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods do their practice with this hadith, and they consider the testimony of a woman to breastfeed sufficient. Abbas says: It is permissible and valid for only one woman to testify about breastfeeding, and that woman is required to take an oath on this issue. Ahmad and Ishaq are of the same opinion. Scholars also say: The testimony of a single woman is not permissible and sufficient; there must be more than one. Shafi'i is of this opinion. I heard; He said that he heard Vekî say: “The testimony of a single woman about breastfeeding is not valid for the courthouse, but it would be better for that person to leave that woman in terms of piety.”
1185-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The thing that makes breastfeeding unlawful is that it is sucked so much that it bursts the intestines, and that it is sucked before the age of two years, which is the age of weaning. ” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic. Many scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods practice their practices with this hadith. If breastfeeding is under the age of two, it becomes haram, and what happens after two years does not make anyone unlawful.
1186-) Haccac b. According to a narration from the father of Hajjaj al-Aslemi (radiyallahu anh), he asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): "O Messenger of Allah, how can I pay for breastfeeding? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "To give a breastfeeding woman a good slave and concubine." (Abu Dâvûd, Nikah: 11; Nesai, Nikah: 56) This hadith is hasan sahih. The meaning of the sentence "How can I pay for the right to breastfeed" in the hadith means how the right of a breastfeeding person can be paid. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied, "If you give a breast-feeding woman a slave and a concubine, you will have paid her due." According to a narration from Tufayl, he said: While he was sitting with the Prophet (peace be upon him), a woman came. Our Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) spread his clothes and sat there, and when that woman left, it was said: "This woman breastfed the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) when she was little." b. Said el Kattan, Hatîm b. Ismail and many others reported this hadith from Hisham b. From Urve, from his father, Haccac b. This is how they narrated Hajjaj from his father. b. In Uyeyne, Hisham b. From his father Haccac b. He narrated from Abu Hajjaj and his father. The hadith of Ibn Uyayna is not very acceptable. The authentic narration is from Hisham b. Urve and his father, Hisham b. Urve is known as Ebul Munzir. He was a companion of Jabir b. Abdullah and Ibn Umar. Fatima bintil Münzir b. Zubayr b. Avvam; Hisham b. She is the wife of Urwa.
1187-) According to what is reported from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: “Berire's husband was a slave. When Barira was freed and set free, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) released her, and she chose to separate from her husband. If her husband was free, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) would not have released her." (Muslim, Itk: 2; Abu Dawud, Talaq: 18)
1188-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “Barira's husband was free, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) freed Barira, who was liberated, not to return to her husband.” (Abu Dawud, Talak: 18; Muslim, Itk: 2) The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. Hisham narrated from Aisha through her father: Aisha said: "Berire's husband was a slave." Ikrima narrated from Ibn Abbas: "I saw Berire's husband, he was a slave and his name was Mughis". It has been narrated from Umar in this way, and the opinion of some scholars is according to this hadith and they say: "If a free person's concubine is freed, she has no right to choose. If a concubine is freed, she has the right to choose whether or not to return to her husband.” Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq also think in this way. According to the narration from İbrahim, Esved and Aisha, Aisha says: “Berire's husband was free. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) left her free to return to her husband." Avane narrated this hadith from A'mesh, Ibrahim, Aswad and Aisha, and Aswad says: "Her husband was free." Some of the scholars of Tabiun and later periods do their practices with this hadith. Sûfyan as-Sevri and the people of Küfe hold this view.
1189-) It was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The day she was liberated, her husband; He was a black slave of the sons of Mughira. By Allah, I can still see him in the streets and surroundings of Medina, his tears wetting his beard, trying to please Berire to choose him. But he did not do that in Berire.” (Abu Dawud, Talak: 18; Muslim, Itk: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic. Said b. Ebi Arube, Said b. It is Mihran. He is known as Abu'n Nasr.
1190-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The child is the owner of the mattress, and the person who commits adultery has deprivation.” (Muslim, Rada; 10) In this regard, Ömer, Osman, Aisha, Abu Umama, Amr b. Harice, Abdullah b. Amr, Berâ b. Âzib and Zeyd b. A hadith was also narrated from Arkam. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) practice their practices with this hadith. Said this hadith b. It was narrated from Musayyeb, Abu Salama and Abu Huraira.
1191-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) saw a woman, went to one of his wives, Zayneb, and saw his need and said: “When a woman comes, she may come in the form of a devil and with the duty of the devil. When one of you sees such a woman, if he likes her and stays in her heart, let him come to his wife immediately and have sexual intercourse because the same thing that is found in her is also in this one.” (Muslim, Nikah: 2; Abu Dâvûd, Nikah: 43) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Mas'ud on this subject. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sahih. Hisham ed Destevai; Hisham b. Senber.
1192-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If I were to order one of the people to prostrate to another, I would order the woman to prostrate to her husband.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) Muâz b. Cebel, Suraka b. Malik b. Cu'sum, Aisha, Ibn Abbas, Abdullah b. ebî Evfâ, Talk b. Hadith was also narrated from Ali, Umm Salama, Anas and Ibn Omar. The hadith of Abu Hurayra is in this form, that is, Muhammad b. As the narration of Amr, Abu Salama and Abu Huraira, it is hasan garib.
1193-) Talk b. According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When a man calls his wife for a need, even if she is making bread on the tandoor, she should leave her job and come to her husband." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
1194-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Any woman who dies while her husband is pleased with her will definitely enter Paradise.” (Ibn Majah: Nikah: 4) This hadith is hasan garib.
1195-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The most mature of believers in terms of faith are the best in terms of morals. The best of you are those who treat their women well.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Sunnah: 15) A hadîth about this issue was also reported from Aisha and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
1196-) Süleyman b. Amr b. According to the narration from Ahvas (radiyallahu anh), he said: My father, who was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on the farewell pilgrimage, told me. He started his speech by praising Allah, giving some reminders and giving advice, and he said in a part of this long hadith: "Beware, I advise you to be nice to women, they are like captives in terms of their devotion and help. Don't ask for anything from them other than sexual intercourse, don't burden them too much. But if they do something blatantly ugly then leave them alone in their bed and beat them up but not too much. If they obey you, do not trouble them by looking for excuses. Beware, they have rights over you just as you have rights over your women. Your right on your women: They should not let people you dislike into your home and not talk to people you don't like. Beware, their right on you is that you treat them well in feeding and dressing them.” (Ibn Majah: Nikah: 3; Abu Dâvûd, Nikah: 40) This hadith is hasan authentic. The meaning of the last (Avanun indekum): It means like the captives under your hand.
1197-) Ali b. According to the narration from Talc (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A Bedouin came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “O Messenger of Allah! What should one of us do if he winds up in the desert and the water is too little? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When one of you winds up, let him perform his ablution immediately, do not approach your women from behind, Allah does not hesitate to tell the truth. (Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 81) In this regard, Ömer, Huzeyme b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit, Ibn Abbas and Abu Huraira. Ali b. The hadith of talc is hasan. I heard he was saying: Apart from this one hadith, Ali b. We do not know the narration of Talc from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Again, this hadith is Ali b. We do not know whether it belongs to Talk or if it belongs to Talk İbn Ali es Suhaymi. According to Bukhari, the narrator of this hadith is someone other than the Companions.
1198-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah does not look at a man or woman who approaches behind him with the look of mercy.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. He narrated the hadith in Waki.
1199-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When one of you winds up, perform ablution and do not approach your women from behind." (Ebû Dâvûd, Tahara: 81) Ali here, Ali b. It is Talk.
1200-) Sa'd's daughter Maymuna (radiyallahu anha) said, according to a narration: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The situation of a woman who tries to appear adorned to people other than her family is like the darkness that will come to her on the Day of Judgment. there is no light.” (Tirmidhi narrated this hadith.) Only Musa b. We know from the hadith of Ubayda. Musa b. Ubayda, on the other hand, although he was a very truthful person, was considered weak in hadith. The narrators did not ascribe this hadith to Musa b. They narrate from Ubayda.
1201-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah is jealous, and a believer is jealous. Allah's jealousy is because the believer commits haram things." (Bukhari, Nikah: 108; Nesai, Nikah: 16) Aisha and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Umar. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan garib. this hadith; Yahya b. It was also narrated from Ebi Kathir, Abu Salama, Urwa, and Esma bint Abi Bakr. Both narrations are true. Haccac es Savvaf, Haccac b. Abu Osman. Abu Osman's name is Meysere. Haccac is known by his nickname Abus Salt. Yahya b. Said says he is a reliable person. Bekir al Attar, Ali b. He narrated that al-Madinî said to us: Yahya b. When I asked Saîd al-Kattan about Haccac es Savvaf, he said, "He is a reliable, intelligent and talented person."
1202-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day is unlawful to marry with her father or son or husband or sister. It is not permissible for him to go on a journey that will last three days or more, alone, without a person who has (Muslim, Hajj: 74) On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Abu Huraira, Ibn Abbas and Ibn Omar. This hadith is hasan authentic. It was also narrated that he said: "A woman should not go on a daily or nightly journey without one of the people she cannot marry." men do their practices with this hadith. They do not welcome him to travel without one of the people who cannot be married with him. Scholars have differed opinions on whether a rich but non-mahram woman can go on pilgrimage. Some scholars are not obligated to hajj on that woman. Because God; He says, "Whoever can afford to make the pilgrimage," not being a mahram is one of the conditions of the journey. That's why they said, "Because he doesn't have a mahram, he can't get on the way of Baitullah." Sûfyan as-Sevri and the people of Küfe hold this view. Some scholars also say, "If there is road safety, he will set out with other pilgrims." Malik and Shafii hold this view.
1203-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A woman should not go out for a day or for a night without a mahram (a relative who cannot marry) with her.” (Bukhari, Taksirus Salat: 4; Muslim, Hajj: 74) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1204-) Ukbe b. According to the narration from Amir (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Look not to be with women!" Thereupon, a man from the Ansar said: O Messenger of Allah: What would you say to the other relatives other than the husband's father and sons? They said, "To be with them is a disaster like death." (Bukhari, Nikah: 112; Muslim, Salam: 8) In this regard, Ömer, Câbir and Amr b. Hadith has also been narrated from As. Uqbe b. The hadith of Âmir is hasan authentic. The fact that being with women is not pleasant is because it is in accordance with the following hadith of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). "A man should not be alone with a woman, the third is the devil." "Al Hamw" means the brother of the husband. A woman's stay with her husband's brother can pose dangers worse than death. It has been said that it is more dangerous than not tolerated in that direction.
1205-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Do not be with women who do not have their husbands and mahrams with them. Because the devil is around you like blood in your veins to surprise you. We asked: “Does this also apply to you?” we said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is the same for me, but Allah protected and helped me from the evil of that devil, and the devil bowed to me." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in this respect. Some hadith scholars such as Mucalid b. They criticize Said for his memory. b. I heard Hasrem say: Sûfyan b. Uyeyna Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saying: “Allah helped me, Satan bowed to me”; He interpreted it as “I will get rid of it”. Because he said, "Satan will never become a Muslim". It means women whose husbands are not with them. Mumibe; plural of the word.
1206-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Women should not be seen by strangers. If the woman goes beyond this limitation and spills into the street, the devil can tempt her and lead her from the right path.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
1207-) Muâz b. According to a narration from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a woman tortures her husband in this world, the houris who will be his wife in Paradise say: A damn woman, do not torture that man, he is a guest with you, he is a guest of yours. He will leave and come to us.” (Ibn Majah, Nikah: 62) This hadith is hasan garib. But this is how we know it. Ismail b. The narration of Ayyaş from the people of Damascus is more authentic. He has munkar narrations from the Hijaz and Iraqis.
1208-) Yunus b. According to the narration from Jubayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abdullah b. To Ömer: “I asked about the situation of the person who divorced his wife during menstruation.” He said: "Abdullah b. Do you know Ömer? He also divorced his wife while she was menstruating.” Then Umar asked the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): He said: “He ordered him to return to his wife.” He says: So is this divorce valid? said. Ibn 'Umar says: "Why shouldn't it be valid? If Ibn Umar was helpless and stupid, should the divorce be invalid? (Bukhari, Talaq: 1; Muslim, Talaq: 1)
1209-) According to the narration from the father of Salim (radiyallahu anh), Ibn Umar divorced his wife while she was menstruating. Umar asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about the situation, and he said: "Order him to return to his wife, and divorce when he is clean or pregnant." (Bukhari, Talak: 1; Muslim, Talak: 1) Yunus b. The hadith reported by Jubayr from Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. The narration of Salim from Ibn Umar is also hasan authentic. This hadith was also narrated by Ibn Umar in different ways. Scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods apply this hadith and say the following: Some scholars say: "If he divorces his woman with three talaqs while she is clean, it is considered in accordance with the sunnah." Shafi'i and Ahmad think so. Some scholars also say: It is not suitable for sunnah to give three talaqs at once, they should be given one by one during each cleaning. This is what Sufyan es-Sevri and Ishaq say. Scientists say about the divorce of a pregnant woman, "She can divorce whenever she wants". Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars say, "It can be divorced by giving a talaq every month".
1210-) According to the narration from Rukane's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father and grandfather, he said: I came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said, “O Messenger of Allah, I have definitely divorced my wife.” What did you mean when you said that the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said definitely? They did. I said: "One talaq". “Would you say I swear?” he commanded. I said: "By Allah". Thereupon, they said: "Whatever your intention is, it has come true". (Ibn Majah, Talak: 19; Abu Dâvûd, Talak: 14) We know this hadith only in this way. I asked Muhammad about this hadith and he said: There is suffering in this hadith, so it is not very sound. and from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "Rukana divorced his wife with three talaqs". (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)'s Companions and later scholars had different opinions on the issue of marriage made by saying "absolutely". Umar b. It is reported that Khattab accepted talaq given with the word of course (absolutely) as a talaq. Ali b. It is narrated that Abi Talib accepted three talaq. scientists, on the other hand, this issue depends on the intention of the person. If he intends for one, it is counted as three if he intends for three only. If he intends two talaqs, it is considered one talaq. The people of Sevri and Küfe hold this view. b. Enes: In the talaq given by saying "Of course" (Absolutely), he says that if that person has had sexual intercourse with that woman, that talak is counted as three talaqs. If: If he intends for one, he has the right to become one and return. He says that if he intends for two, it counts as two, if he intends for three, it counts as three.
1211-) Hammad b. According to the narration from Zayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: Do you know anyone other than Hasan who told Ayyub that "you are your own master", that this word is three talaq? Said. He said, "No, I only know Hasan," and then he said: "God forgive me, it turns out that Qatada told me that he had told me about this word from the freed sons of Samura, Kesir, Abu Salama, and Abu Huraira." Abu Ayyub says: When I met Kathir, the freed son of the sons of Samura, I asked him about this hadith, but he did not know. After that, I asked Qatada and he said, "He has forgotten." (Abu Dawud, Talak: 12; Nesai, Talak: 11) This hadith is strange.
1212-) This hadith was only reported by Sulayman b. Harb'in, Hammad b. We know it from the narration he made from Zayd. I asked Muhammad about this hadith and he said: Suleiman b. Harb, Hammad b. He narrated it to us from Zayd in this way, but it was narrated as Abu Huraira's own word (mawkuf). The narration of Abu Huraira is not known as merfu. b. Nasr; He is a hafiz and a hadithist. Scholars put forward different opinions in the statement: "Your job is in your hands". Hattab and Abdullah b. Mas'ud; They said, "It is a talaq." and many scholars from later periods hold this view. Osman b. Affan and Zayd b. Constant says, “The judgment takes place as the woman gives it”. Ömer says: When the man gives the divorce to the woman, and the woman divorces him with three talaqs, the man does not accept this and says that I gave this job only as a talaq, and the husband is offered an oath. If she swears, the situation is according to the husband's oath. Sûfyan es Sevri and the people of Küfe, Ömer and Abdullah b. They followed Mas'ud's view. Malik b. On the other hand, Enes said that the verdict is the woman's verdict. Ahmed thinks the same way. Ishaq, on the other hand, is in the opinion of Ibn Umar.
1213-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) left us free, and we chose him. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not consider doing this as talaq." (Bukhari, Talaq: 4; Muslim, Talaq: 4)
1214-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Abdurrahman b. They narrated similarly from Sufyan, A'mesh, Abus Suha, Mesrûk and Aisha through the Mahdi. This hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars have put forward different views on the subject of "Imagination". Umar and Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud, they said: "If a woman wants to divorce herself, a talaq will have taken place. The husband has the right to return. If the woman prefers her husband, nothing is necessary.” It has been reported that he said: If the woman prefers herself, a talaq will take place. If she prefers her husband, a talaq takes place, the husband has the right to return. Zayd b. If she is stable, she says: If she prefers her husband, one talaq will occur, and if she prefers herself, three talaks will be realized. Many scholars and fiqh scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods, Umar and Abdullah b. They followed Mas'ud's view. Sevri and Küfeli were among them and Ahmed b. Hanbel, on the other hand, agrees with Ali's opinion.
1215-) According to a narration from Fatima bint Kays (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: My husband divorced me three times during the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "There is no abode or alimony for you." (Muslim, Talaq: 6; Abu Davud, Talak: 37) says: I mentioned this hadith to Ibrahim, and he said that Omar said about this hadith: We will not abandon the sunnah of . We don't know, did he remember the truth? Or did he forget?" Umar gave the woman who was divorced with three talaks the right of residence and alimony.
1216-) Ahmed b. Husayn, Ismail and Mucalid conveyed it to us through Meni', Hüseym. Hushaym says: In David, quoting from Sha'bi in the same way, he said: "I went to Fatima bint Qays and asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about her." She said: Of course, her husband (absolutely) She said that she divorced her husband, filed a housing and alimony lawsuit against her husband, and that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not give her the right to abode and alimony. In his narration, he said: "He ordered me to wait for my iddah in the house of Ibn Umm Maktum." This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars apply this hadith and Hasan al Basrî, Âta b. Abi Rebah and Shabī are among them. Ahmad and Ishaq are of the same opinion and say: "If her husband has not divorced her so that she has the right to return, the divorced woman has no right to abode and alimony." Mas'ud says: "A woman who divorces with three talaqs has a home and alimony." Es Sevri and the people of Küfe are of this opinion. Some scholars say: "There is a house, there is no alimony". Malik b. Enes, Leys b. Sa'd, Shafii is of this opinion. says: Based on Allah's book, we have given women the right to abode. Allah says in the 1st verse of Surah 65 Talaq (…Do not drive them out of their homes, so that they do not leave their homes, and do not be forced to leave that house unless they act in an openly indecent manner…) It is stated that the clearly indecent behavior in the verse means being long-spoken and harassing the husband's relatives with the tongue. The reason why the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not recognize the right of residence for Fatima, daughter of Kays; because he bothered his relatives with his tongue. Based on the hadith of Fatima, daughter of Kays: "There is no alimony for a woman who divorces with three talaq".
1217-) Amr b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Shuayb (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Do not make an offering (votive) that is not in the hands of the son of Adam, to set free a slave who is not in his control (freedom) and to get married. He has no right to divorce a woman he is not with.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Talak: 7; İbn Mâce, Talak: 17) Ali, Muâz b. Hadith was also narrated from Cebel, Jabir, Ibn Abbas and Aisha. Abdullah b. The hadith of Omar is hasan authentic. This is the best hadith reported on this subject. The opinion of many scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith. as Ali b. Ebî Tâlib, İbn Abbas, Câbir b. Abdullah, Said b. Müseyyeb, Hasen, Said b. Cubeyr, Ali b. Husayn, Süreyh, Câbir b. The same is reported from many scholars from the time of Zayd and Tabin. Shafii is of the same opinion. According to what is reported from Mas'ud, he stated the country or race and said that the divorced woman would be divorced. According to what is reported from Ibrahim Nehai, Sha'bi and other scholars, they said: If the person who divorces divorces by specifying a period of time, the woman will be divorced when that period expires. Sûfyan es Sevrî and Malik b. Enes is of the same opinion; They say, "If a person specifies a woman by her name or appoints a time or stipulates that I will marry from such and such a region, and if she marries from there, the woman will be divorced." Mubarak acted more severely on this issue; He says, "I cannot say that if he does the things that he will do under conditions, that woman will be haram for him." says: If that man marries the woman he has stipulated, I will not order him to leave his previous wife. He says: Because of the hadith of Ibn Mas'ud, I accept it as permissible to divorce by specifying the country or race, but I cannot say that if he marries her, the previous wife will be haram for him. Ishaq gave ease except for divorce by specifying his country or race. b. According to what is told from Mubarak, he was asked the following: Is it possible to benefit from the license (permission) given by the fiqh scholars for a person who swears that I will not marry, that this woman will be empty if I do? Ibn'ul Mubarak said: Before such a situation happens to him, if he accepts this view of the jurists as true and true; can do their applications with their words. If he does not consent to such a view before, does not like it, and when such a situation occurs, he tries to practice with their words, I will not accept his work as pleasant.
1218-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The concubine’s talaq is two, and her waiting period for iddah is as long as two menstruation.” (Ibn Majah, Talaq: 30)
1219-) Muhammed b. Yahya said: Abu Asim reported the same hadith to us through Muzahir. In this regard, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Umar. The hadith of Aisha is strange. Only Muzahir b. We know from Eslem's narration. Apart from this hadith, we do not know any other hadith narrated by Muzahir. The practice of scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1220-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah has given up blaming the bad feelings and thoughts of my Ummah unless they speak up and put them into practice.” (Ibn Majah, Talak: 14) This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. If a person goes through divorce but does not say it with his tongue, nothing is needed.
1221-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are three things, serious and serious; Nikah, Talaq and Ricat (the husband's return to his wife)” (Abu Dâvûd, Talak: 9; İbn Mâce, Talak: 13) This hadith is hasan garib. The practice of scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith. Abdurrahman b. Edrek, Habib b. He is the son of Edrek and is from Medina. Ibn Mahek, in my opinion, is Yusuf b. It is Mahek.
1222-) Rübeyyi' bint Muavviz b. According to the narration from Afra (radiy-Allâhu anha): “He became hulu in the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (She was divorced for a price) The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered her to wait for iddah for a period of menstruation, or so she was ordered.” (Abu Dâvûd, Talak: 18; Nesai, Talak: 34) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. Rubayyi' hadith is authentic. He was ordered to wait for a period of iddah.
1223-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): Sabit b. Kays' wife, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), had once divorced her husband through hul (for a price). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered him to wait for a period of iddah.” (Abu Dawud, Talak: 18; Nesai, Talak: 34) This hadith is hasan garib. The men put forward different views on the iddat period of the woman who was divorced through hulu'. It is as long as the iddat period of a woman who divorced the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and many scholars from later periods through hulu'. That is, it is the period of three hayz. Sûfyan es Sevrî, the people of Küfe, Ahmed and İshâk are also of this opinion. Some scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods, on the other hand, the iddah of a person who gets divorced by hul' is a period of menstruation. They say. Ishaq says: Whoever follows this view, this way and view is a sound view.
1224-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Women who seek divorce through hul for no reason are hypocrites.” (Abu Dâvûd, Talak: 18; Nesai, Talak: 34) This hadith is strange in this respect. It's not very solid either. It was also narrated that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: If any woman wishes to separate from her husband through hul' without a valid reason, she cannot smell the fragrance of Paradise.
1225-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a woman wants to divorce her husband without a valid reason, the scent of Paradise is forbidden for that woman.” (Abu Dâvûd, Talak: 18; İbn Mâce, Talak: 21) This hadith is hasan. This hadith was also narrated from Ayyub, Abu Qalabe, Abu Esma and Sevban. Some hadith scholars narrated from Ayyub with this isnad, but it was not narrated as merfu.
1226-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A woman is crooked like a rib, if you try to straighten it, you will break it. If you leave it as it is, you will benefit from it despite its curvature.” (Bukhari, Nikah: 80; Muslim, Rada: 18) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Abu Dharr, Samura and Aisha. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan sahih garib in this form, and its hadith is sound.
1227-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: There was a woman whom I loved, who was married to me. My father didn't like that woman, he ordered me to divorce, and I did not accept it. When he conveyed the situation to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), they said: "O Abdullah, son of Omar, divorce your wife." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 120; Ibn Majah, Talak: 36) This hadith is hasan authentic. We know this hadith only through the narration of Ibn Abi Zi'bin.
1228-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “No woman should want her religious brother to divorce her husband in order to obtain her husband.” (Muslim, Magic: 4) A hadith has also been reported from Umm Salama on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
1229-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Every talaq done is valid, but the talaq made by someone who is mentally unstable is invalid." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is ascribed only to Âta b. We know with the narration of Aclân. Âta b. Aclan, on the other hand, has lost his knowledge of hadith and is weak in hadith. The practices of scholars from the companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods are according to this hadith. Talaq made by a person who is mentally unstable is invalid. If there is sometimes a balanced and sometimes an unbalanced state, the talaq in its balanced state will be valid.
1230-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Before the verses about divorce came, a man could divorce his wife as much as he wanted, if he returned to his wife within his iddah, that woman would be considered his wife. Even if he divorced a hundred times or more, the situation would not change. Finally, a man said to his wife: I swear to God: I will divorce you so that there will be no separation from me, and I will not keep you as my wife until I die. Woman: “How will this be?” said. The man said: I will divorce you, I will come back to you when your iddah is about to expire. Then the woman went to Aisha to explain the situation. Aisha remained silent and when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came, she informed him about the situation. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) kept silent and at the end of 2 Baccarat: 229 verse was revealed: “Divorce can happen twice. In the third, the marriage either continues with kindness or ends in a good way…” he says: After that, all Muslims, both those who gave talak in the past and those who did not, started to apply this new rule. (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
1231-) Ebu Küreyb, Abdullah b. Through İdris, Hisham b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us in terms of meaning from his father from Urwa, and he did not say "from Aisha" in the hadith. This narration was written by Ya'la b. It is more authentic than Shabib's narration.
1232-) Ebus Senabil b. According to the narration from Ba'kek (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Subai gave birth twenty-three or twenty-five days after her husband's death, and she wanted to marry when she was cleared of nifahat, and this situation was not welcomed. When the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) stopped and was informed, he said: If he marries, it is his right. The waiting period for iddat is also over.” (Nesai, Talak: 56; İbn Mâce, Talak: 7)
1233-) Ahmed b. Meni', Hasan b. He narrated a similar hadith from Shayban and Mansur through Musa. A hadith has also been narrated from Umm Salama on this subject. The hadith of Abus Senabil is famous in this way. We do not know whether Evsed heard hadiths from Abus Senabil. I heard from Mohammed saying: We do not know that the person called Abus Senabil lived after the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The practice of many scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods is suitable for this hadith. A pregnant woman whose husband dies does not have to wait for iddah as soon as she gives birth, but it is permissible to marry. Sûfyan as-Sevri, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and his followers say that he should wait four months and ten days, which is called the iddat of death, but the first view is more correct.
1234-) Süleyman b. According to the narration from Yesar (radiyallahu anh), Abu Hurayra, Ibn Abbas and Abu Salama b. Abdurrahman; They discussed the iddat of the woman whose husband died and who gave birth after her death. Ibn Abbas said: The waiting period for that woman is until the end of one of the two periods. Abu Salama said: It is permissible for her to marry as soon as she gives birth. der. Abu Huraira said: I am in favor of Abu Salama's view. Then they sent a message to Umm Salama, one of the wives of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) to learn her opinion on the matter. Umm Salama said: Subay'a al-Aslamiyye gave birth shortly after her husband's death, so she asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) for the fatwa of this matter and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered her to marry him. (Ibn Majah, Talak: 7; Muslim, Talak: 8) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1235-) Zaynab (radiy-Allâhu anha) said: Abu Sufyan b. When Harb passed away, I went to Umm Habiba and brought a yellowish or other scent to a young girl, rubbed the scent on her cheeks, and said, "By Allah, I don't need fragrance, but I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and he said: “It is not permissible for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to lament a dead person for more than three days. However, she can mourn her husband for four months and ten days and cannot dress up.” (Abu Dawud, Talaq: 35; Ibn Majah, Talak: 8)
1236-) Zaynab (radiy-Allâhu anha) said: When Zaynab's sister, daughter of Jahsh, died, I went to him and he had perfume brought to him. It is not permissible for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to mourn for any dead person for more than three nights. However, they said that she could mourn for her husband for four months and ten days.” (Bukhari, Talaq: 46; Muslim, Talaq: 8)
1237-) Zaynab (radiy-Allâhu anha) says: I heard from my mother Umm Salama that she said: A woman came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “O Messenger of Allah! My daughter's husband passed away, my daughter is also uncomfortable with her eyes, can we put eyeliner on her eyes? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said no two or three times. He said that it cannot be good every time, then he continued as follows: The period of death is four months and ten days. However, at the time of ignorance, you wait for the end of the year for one year, and at the end of the year, the camel completed this period by throwing dung.” (Muslim, Talak: 8; Bukhari, Talak: 44) A hadith was also reported from Füreya bint Malik (who is the sister of Abu Said al-Khudri) and Hafsa bint Ömer. The hadith of Zaynab is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods is according to this hadith. In other words, a woman whose husband dies should abstain from using perfumes and adornments during her death period of four months and ten days. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik b. Enes, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq also hold this view.
1238-) Zihar: It means that a man compares a limb of his wife to a limb of his mother. (See Ahzab: 4; Struggle: 2-4) b. According to the narration from Sahr al-Bayâzî (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “One kaffarah is sufficient” if a person who commits zikhar has sexual intercourse with his wife without paying her expiation. (Ibn Majah, Talak: 26; Abu Dâvûd, Talak: 16) This hadith is hasan garib. The majority of scholars apply this hadith. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars say that two penances are required for a person who approaches his wife before giving his penance, Abdurrahman b. Mahdi is like that.
1239-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh); A man who caught his wife after making zihar came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said; He said, 'O Messenger of Allah, I have committed zihar to my wife and I have approached her without paying her expiation. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) said, "May Allah have mercy on you, why did you do this?" The man said: I saw the shine of my wife's ankle bracelets in the moonlight and I could not stand it. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He said, "Don't approach the woman unless you fulfill the expiation that Allah has ordered you to do." (Ibn Majah, Talak: 16) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
1240-) Abu Salama and Muhammad b. Abdirrahman b. According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), one of the sons of Beyaza, Salman b. Sahr al-Ansari made his wife like his mother's back until the month of Ramadan came out. When half of Ramadan passed, he approached her at night. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Free a slave". Salman came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and explained the situation to him: "I cannot find it," he said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "Fast two months in a row." Salman said, "I can't." Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); “Feed sixty poor people,” he said. Selman said: "I can't find it." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Ferwa b. He gave Amr a basket of dates, full of fifteen and sixteen measures, so that sixty poor people could be fed.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Talak: 17; İbn Mâce, Talak: 25) This hadith is hasan. The Companion whose name is mentioned in the hadith is Salman b. Also called Sahar. Salama b. It is called in Sahr al-Bayâzî. Scholars apply this hadith on the subject of zihar kaffarah.
1241-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had sworn not to approach his wives for four months (he made it unlawful for him to eat honey or go near Mariya), then he made that thing halal, which he made unlawful. He made kaffarah for the oath by breaking his oath.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) A hadith was also reported from Anas and Abu Musa on this subject. Meslama b. The hadith narrated by Alkame from Dawud is Ali b. Müshir and others have narrated from Davud and Shabî as mursal that there is no Mesrûk and Aisha in this narration; Meslama b. It is more authentic than Alkame's narration. It means that the husband swears not to approach his wife for four months or more. In the event that this period exceeds four months, the men put forward different opinions. Some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods say: After four months, it's quiet and the husband can return to his wife if he wishes, or divorce. Malik b. Enes, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. Some scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and later periods, a talaq-i bain takes place after four months. Such is the view of Sufyan as-Sevri and the people of Kufa.
1242-) Said b. According to a narration from Jubayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: Mus'ab b. During the governorship of Zubayr, I was asked if the cursed husband and wife would separate from each other, I did not know how to answer. I got up to go to Ibn Omar and learn from him. When I got to him, I asked permission to enter him. He must have heard my speech and said: “Girl, son of Jubayr, an important matter has brought you here.” Then I went to him and saw that he had made a rug for a bed and said: O Abu Abdurrahman. Do cursed husband and wife break up? Abdullah said: Subhanallah. Yes, he leaves. The first person to ask about this is his son or something. If one of us came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and saw his wife committing adultery, what should he do? If he speaks, I said as answering a big issue; The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) remained silent and did not answer. That man came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the following days and said, "I am being tested on the subject I asked you about." Thereupon, Allah revealed the 6th verse of Surah Nur; “As for those who accuse their wives of adultery but have no witnesses other than themselves…” and he completed these verses. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) called the man, read these verses, preached and gave advice. He said that the punishment of the world is lighter than the punishment of the hereafter. The man said "No". I swear to the One who sent you with the truth that I am not lying to that woman. Then, second, he summoned the woman, preached and counseled. He said that the punishment of the world is lighter than the punishment of the hereafter. Thereupon, the woman said: No, I swear to God, who sent you with the truth, that my husband did not tell the truth. After that, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) started first with men. The man swore four times that he was one of the truth-tellers, and the fifth time he wished the curse of Allah to be upon him if he was a liar. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) turned to the woman. The woman swore by Allah four times that the man was indeed of the liars, and on the fifth time she wished that the wrath of Allah would be upon her if the man was one of the truthful. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) separated the two. (Muslim, Lian: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Talak: 26) Sahl b. Hadith was also narrated from Sa'd, Ibn Mas'ud and Huzayfa. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. Scholars apply this hadith.
1243-) According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: “A man made a lian to his wife. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) separated them from each other and gave the child to his mother.” (Abu Dawud, Talak: 26; Muslim, Lian: 8) This hadith is hasan sahih. The practices of scholars are according to this hadith.
1244-) Ka'b b. According to the narration from Ucre (radiyallahu anh), the sister of Abu Said al-Khudri, Füreya bint Malik b. Sinan came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and asked permission to return to his family in the tribe of sons of Hudra. I asked because my husband had left me neither a seat nor food and drink. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, yes, you can go. So I got up and reached my house or the mosque when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered me to be called and said: "How did you say?" I repeated what I told about my husband, and he said to stay at home until the period of iddah expires. I waited for my iddah there for four months and ten days. When (radiyallahu anh) became the caliph, he sent a man to me and asked the verdict of this, and I informed him. He also made a judgment in accordance with this decree. (Abu Dawud, Talak: 42; Nesai, Talak: 60)
1245-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Yahya b. Sa'd b. Ishaq b. Ka'b b. He conveyed a similar meaning of this hadith from Ucre to us. This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of many scholars from the companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods is according to this hadith. "They are of the opinion that a woman whose husband dies should not leave her husband's house until her iddah ends." Sûfyan as-Sevri, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. Some scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods; They say, "If she doesn't want to spend her time at her husband's house, she can fill her iddah wherever she wants." The first view is more correct.
1246-) Numân b. According to the narration from Bashir (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) as follows: "Halal is also explained and haram is explained. Between these two, there are things that most of the people who do not know whether it is halal or haram, do not know. Whoever abandons such doubtful things will protect his religion and chastity and will be safe. Whoever enters one of these is very close to falling into haram. The shepherd, who grazes his flock around the forbidden zone, is very quick to smuggle his flock into that forbidden zone. Note that every authority holder has a forbidden zone. Note that every authority holder has a forbidden zone. Beware, there are things that Allah has made haram in the forbidden area.” (Bukhari, Faith: 39; Muslim, Musaka: 20)
1247-) Hennad; Via Vekî' Zekeriyya b. from ebî Zaide, from Şabî, from Numan b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us in terms of meaning from Bashir. This hadith is hasan authentic. Numan b. They narrated to us from Bashir.
1248-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed those who eat interest and those who give it, the witnesses and scribes of interest-bearing transactions.” (Abu Dâvûd, Magic: 4) There are also hadiths related to this subject from Ömer, Ali, Jabir and Abu Juhayfe. Abdullah b. The hadith of Mas'ud is hasan authentic.
1249-) According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) listed some of the major sins and said: “Associating partners with Allah, disobeying parents, murdering people, and telling lies and giving false testimony.” (Bukhari, Shahadat: 4; Muslim, Faith: 38) Abu Bakr, Eymen b. Hadith was also narrated from Huraym and Ibn Umar. The hadith of Anas is hasan sahih.
1250-) Kays b. According to a narration from Garaze (radiyallahu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to us and we were called brokers. By giving us a better name; O community of Merchants! Undoubtedly, the devil and sin always trade, you clean your trades by mixing charity.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Magic: 1; Nesai, Eymân: 22) In this regard, Barâ b. Hadith was also narrated from Azib and Rifaa. Kays b. The hadith of Gaza is hasan authentic. Mansur, A'mesh, Habib b. Ebî Sabit and many others from Ebû Vâil and Kays b. It was narrated from Abi Garaza. We do not know that Qays narrated other hadiths from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) other than this hadith.
1251-) Hennad, from A'mesh through Abu Muaviye, from Shakik b. From Salama (Ebû Vâil) Kays b. They have narrated a similar hadith from Abi Garaza in terms of meaning. On the subject of Barâ b. Hadith was also narrated from Azib and Rifaa. This hadith is authentic.
1252-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Honest and reliable merchant; He is with the prophets and the righteous and the martyrs who affirmed the prophets.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is hasan, it is known only in this way. According to the narration of Sufyan es Sevrî from Abu Hamza… Hamza's name was Abdullah b. Jabir is a hadith scholar from Basra.
1253-) Suveyd narrated a similar hadith with this deed from Sufyan as-Tevri and Abu Hamza through Ibn al-Mubarak.
1254-) According to what Rifaa (radiyallahu anh) narrated from his father and grandfather; He went to the prayer hall with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) when he saw some people doing their shopping and called out to them: "O merchants community," they responded to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) by straightening their necks and turning their eyes to him. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The merchants will be resurrected on the Day of Judgment in a sinful and disgraceful state. Except for those who find their way through the book and avoid sin, keep their oath and do good, and those who are honest.” (Ibn Majah, Trade: 3; Abu Dâvûd, Magic': 1) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Ubayd b. Rifaa'ya, İsmail b. Ubeydullah b. It is called in Rifaa.
1255-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There are three groups of people who will not look at their faces on the Day of Judgment, but will not cleanse them of their sins and will make them taste the painful punishment. Who are we who are in this harm and loss, O Messenger of Allah! We said. They said: 1- A person who retaliates for his good deeds, 2- A person who drags his clothes on the ground out of arrogance and pride, 3- A person who sells and consumes his commercial goods under false oath. (Muslim, Faith: 46) Ibn Mas'ud, Abu Huraira, Abu Umama b. Sa'lebe, Imran b. Husayn and Ma'kil b. Hadith was also narrated from Yasar. The hadith of Abu Dharr is hasan authentic.
1256-) According to a narration from Sahr al-Gamidi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Allah, make the deeds of my nation in the first hour of the day fruitful.” Sahr says: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was going to send a military unit and army to war, he would send them in the first and early hours of the morning." The narrator says: Sahr was busy with trade, he did his business by leaving and sending in the early hours of the morning, so he became rich and his property increased. (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 78; Ibn Majah, Tijarat: 41) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ali, Ibn Mas'ud, Burayda, Anas, Ibn Omar, Ibn Abbas and Jabir. The hadith of Sahr al-Gamidi is hasan. We do not know of any other hadith narrated by Sahr al-Gamidi other than this hadith. Sûfyan es Sevrî, from Shu'be, Ya'la b. He narrated this hadith from Ata.
1257-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had two clothes made of thick fabric. When he sat down, he would sweat and these two clothes weighed heavily on his back. Then the Jewish candlestick fabrics arrived. And I said: I said to that Jew if you would send someone and buy clothes on credit. The Jew, who was sent to buy clothes, said: "I know Muhammad's purpose, he wants to defraud my property and money." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "That Jew lied because he knows very well that I am more conscious of Allah's responsibility and that I am the most observant of the trust." (Nesai, Buyû: 70) A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas, Anas and Asma bint Yazid on this subject. The hadith of Aisha hasan garib is authentic. Shu'ba reported this hadith from Umara b. Narrated by Abu Hafsa. b. I heard from Firas al-Basrî, he said: I heard from Abu Dâvûd et Tayalisî, he said: One day, Shu'ba was asked about this hadith and he said: Haremi b. Umar b. I will not convey this hadith to you until I get up to Abu Hafsa and kiss her on the head. Haremî was also among that community at that time. He must have liked this hadith so much that he did so.
1258-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed away, his armor was pawned in exchange for twenty measures of barley he bought for his family.”(Nesai, Magic: 83) ; Ibn Majah, Rühün: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1259-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: One day I carried barley bread and some spoiled tallow to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). His armor was pawned with a Jew in exchange for twenty measures of barley for his family. One day, I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "Muhammad's household did not have a single measure of dates or a measure of grain in the evening, and indeed, in those days, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) had nine wives. ” (Bukhari, Magic: 14) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1260-) Abdulmecid b. According to the narration from Wahb (radiyallahu anh), he said: Adda' b. Khalid b. Hevze said to me: Shall I read to you a document that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had dictated for me? So I said yes, so he took out the following document: “This document is Adda b. Khalid b. It was written on Havze's purchase of a slave or concubine from Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); There is no sickness, shame, escape, cheating, adultery or theft in that slave or concubine. This contract is a Muslim's exchange with another Muslim." (Bukhari, Magic: 19; Ibn Majah, Ticarat: 47) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was only reported by 'Abbad b. We know with the narration of Leys. Many hadith-makers have narrated this hadith from him.
1261-) According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to those who do business by using measuring and weighing instruments: “When you use it right, you will win Paradise, when you do fraud, you will go to Hell. You are at the beginning, the societies that passed before you were among those who perished in this matter.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.) Only Husayn b. We know from the narration of Kays. Husayn b. Kays is said to be weak in the hadith. The same hadith has been narrated from Ibn 'Abbas with an authentic proof.
1262-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted to sell a piece of sackcloth and water container of a poor person and make money and capital for that person and said: "Who will buy this sackcloth and glass?" A man said: “I bought both of them for a dirham.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Is there anyone who gives more than one dirham? Does anyone give more than a dirham?” he commanded. A man: “He gave them two dirhams and sold them to him.” (Nesai, Magic: 22; Bukhari, Magic': 59) This hadith is hasan. Only Ahdar b. We know with the narration of Aclan. Abdullah al Hanafi, who narrated hadiths from Anas, is Abu Bakr al Hanafi. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith and they do not see any harm in selling inheritance and booty goods by auction. Mu'temir b. Sulayman and many of the elders of the hadiths related this hadith to Ahdar b. They narrated from Aclan.
1263-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): “A man from the Ansar attributed the liberation of his slave to his own death. The Ansarî man died. He did not leave any property other than the slave. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sold that slave. Nuaym b. Abdullah b. en Nahham bought that slave. Jabir says: This slave was of Coptic descent and died in the first year of Ibn Zubayr's governorship. (Bukhari, Keffaratül Eyman: 7; Muslim, Eyman: 13) This hadith is hasan authentic. Jabir b. It has also been narrated from Abdullah in different ways. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and from other periods is based on this hadith, and they do not see any harm in selling a dead slave. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq hold this view. Again, some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and from other periods do not welcome the sale of a dead slave. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik and Evzâî are of this opinion.
1264-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), "The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) forbade buying the goods for sale before they come to the market place." (Bukhari, Magic: 68; Muslim, Magic: 5) On this subject, hadiths were narrated from Ali, Ibn Abbas, Abu Huraira, Abu Said, Ibn Omar, and other companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh).
1265-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prohibited the purchase of goods being brought to the market. Whoever makes such a purchase is free to sell or not when the owner comes to the market.” (Muslim, Magic: 5; Abu Dawud, Magic: 43) This hadith is hasan garib as the narration of Ayyub. The hadith of Ibn Mas'ud is hasan sahih. Scholars did not like to meet the goods for sale on the way to the market and buy them. Because this behavior is a kind of cheating and deception. Shafii and our other friends are of this opinion.
1266-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Qutayba quoted this hadith as merfu.) “A foreigner in a city cannot sell it for the peasant without buying it.” (Bukhari, Magic: 68; Muslim, Magic: 5) Talha, Jabir, Anas, Ibn Abbas, Hakim, Ibn ebî Yazid through his father and Kathir b. Abdullah's grandfather Amr b. A hadith was narrated by Avf al-Muhazani and one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam).
1267-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The people coming from outside the city should not sell their goods on their behalf and act as brokers, let people do their shopping, and Allah will provide for each other." (Muslim, Magic: 6; Abu Dawud, Magic: 45) The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan. The hadith of Jabir on this subject is also hasan sound. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and from other periods is according to this hadith. In other words, they do not tolerate that the citizens of the city sell their goods from outside the city. But the city dweller can buy goods from outside the city. He says: It is makruh for a city dweller to sell his property on behalf of a countryman, if he does, this purchase is permissible.
1268-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade trade in the form of argument and arguing.” (Muslim, Magic: 16; Bukhari, Magic': 82) Ibn Omar, Ibn Abbas, Zayd b. Sabit, Sa'd, Jabir, Rafi' b. Hadith was also narrated from Hadic and Abu Said. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. It is to sell the crop in your ear for wheat. Selling the fruit of the date palm in exchange for dried dates. The practices of scholars are according to this hadith and they do not tolerate such exchanges.
1269-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Yazid (radiyallahu anh). Zayd Abu Ayyas; Sa'd asked Sa'd about the ruling of replacing shelled barley with unshelled barley: Which one is more valuable? Said. Zayd: When it comes to barley with shells, Sa'd: He forbade this kind of trade. He says: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) when he was asked about the decision of buying dried dates in exchange for fresh dates, he asked the people around him, "Does the fresh date decrease when it dries?" When they say “Yes”; prohibited such exchanges. (Abu Dawud, Magic: 18; Nesai, Magic: 28)
1270-) Hennad, from Malik through Vekî, Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Yazid, from Zayd ebî Ayyaş, saying: “We asked Sa'da…”. This hadith is hasan authentic. The practices of scholars, including Shafi'i, are according to this hadith.
1271-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); “He forbade the date to be sold on the tree until it was clear that it was ripe.” (Muslim, Magic: 13; Abu Dawud, Magic: 22)
1272-) It was narrated in the same year. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): He forbade the sale of wheat products before the spikes mature and natural disasters occur. Both the buyer and the seller… (Muslim, Magic: 13; Abu Dawud, Magic: 22) In this regard, Enes, Aisha, Abu Huraira, Ibn Abbas, Jabir, Abu Said and Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods is according to this hadith. They do not tolerate the sale of immature crops. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq also hold this view.
1273-) It was narrated from Anas (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: “He forbade selling grapes and grains before they are ripe.” (Abu Dawud, Magic: 22; Muslim, Magic': 13) This hadith is hasan garib. As Merfu, only Hammad b. We know from the Salama narration.
1274-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He forbade the sale of pregnant animals or the sale of anything else at the maturity date.” (Bukhari, Magic: 61; Muslim, Magic: 3) Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Abbas and Abu Said al-Khudri. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. The practices of scholars are according to this hadith. Habele: It is the offspring that the baby will give birth to. According to scholars, this shopping is void, this shopping is a type of deception. This hadith is from Ayyub, Said b. It was narrated from Jubayr and Ibn Abbas. Abdulvehhab es Sekafi and others are from Eyyub, Said b. They narrated from Jubayr, Nafi, and Ibn Umar, which is more authentic.
1275-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade all kinds of sales that were made by stone throwing and unknown and deception sales." (Muslim, Magic: 2; Abu Dâvûd, Magic: 24) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ibn Omar, Ibn Abbas, Abu Said and Anas. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith, and they do not tolerate the sale of any kind of deception. He says: The sale of fish in the water, of the lost slave, of the bird in the air and so on are among the types of sales that are deception and have an unknown end. Sales realized by throwing: It is the form of sale made by saying that the shopping between us has been realized as soon as the seller throws the stone to the customer. This form is similar to the shopping called munabeze, which is one of the types of shopping in the period of ignorance. Customers and sellers are shopping without knowing how and how much the goods they are going to buy and sell.
1276-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the transaction of two sales in one sale." (Nesai, Magic: 73) Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Ibn Umar and Ibn Mas'ud. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. Some scholars explain the subject of "Two sales in one sale" as follows. The seller says to the buyer that I will sell this dress to you for ten liras in cash and twenty liras in deferred payment. If they agree on one of the two sales, there is no harm in this transaction. He says: The meaning of two sales in a sale prohibited by the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) is as follows: I will sell my house to you for this price, like if you sell your slave to me for this price, or when your slave is my property, my house will be your property. Such transactions are in the case of unknown transactions where the value and value of the goods have not been determined.
1277-) Hakim b. According to the narration from Hizam (radiyallahu anh), he said: I came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: "Sometimes a customer comes to me, asks me to buy something that I do not have, and sells it from others. Is this shopping correct? I asked. They said: "Do not sell the goods that you do not have at the time of shopping." (Muslim, Magic': 8; Ibn Majah, Trade: 37)
1278-) Hakim b. According to the narration from Hizam (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade me to sell a property that I do not have with me." (Muslim, Magic: 8; Ibn Majah, Tijarat: 37) This hadith is hasan. b. Mansur says: Ahmed b. I asked Hanbel; What does the prohibition from the sale of "Salef ve Bey" mean? He said: It means lending money to someone who is a customer and then selling goods to him at a higher price than it is worth. Or, if you give a loan in exchange for a property and then cannot pay the debt, that property will be mine. It's like saying. Isaac thinks the same way. b. Hanbale; How is the sale of the goods for which you do not compensate? I asked. He said: Non-sold goods are only valid for foodstuffs. says: Everything that enters the measure and weighing Ahmad b. As Hanbel said. says: If the seller says that I am selling this fabric to you, with sewing and other work being done by me, this means "two sales in one sale". There is no harm if he says that he sold this fabric, the sewing of which belongs to me, or if he says that he sells the other works to be done except the sewing, on his own, there is no harm in that either. These are single-conditions and do not fit two sales models in one sale. Isaac is of the same opinion.
1279-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb (radiyallahu anh), he said: They quoted the following hadith of Amr: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Salaf and Bey' type of sale, two purchases in one transaction, goods for which the loss is not compensated, and it is not lawful for a person to sell the goods that are not with him." (Abu Dawud, Magic: 68; Nesai, Magic: 60) This hadith is hasan authentic. Hakim b. The hadith of Khzam is hasan sound and has been narrated in different ways. Eyyub es Sahtiyani and Abu Bishr, Yusuf b. From Mahek and Hakîm b. They narrated from Hizam. This hadith was reported by Avf', Hisham b. Hassan, Ibn Sirin, Hakim b. They narrated it from Hizam and this hadith is mursal. Ibn Sirin reported this hadith from Ayyub es Sahtiyani, Yusuf b. From Mahek and Hakîm b. He narrated from Hizam.
1280-) According to the narration from Hakim ibn Khzam (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade me from selling a property that was not with me.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Magic: 68; Nesai, Magic: 60) The vekî had this hadith from Yazîd b. From Ibrahim, Ibn Sirin, Ayyub, Hakim b. It was narrated from Hizam, and in this narration Yusuf b. He did not mention "Mahek". The story is more authentic. b. Abi Kathir also reported this hadith from Ya'la b. From Hakim, Yusuf b. From Mahek, Abdullah b. From İsmet, Hakîm b. He narrated from Hizam. The practice of the majority of scholars is according to this hadith, and they do not tolerate that someone sells goods that they do not have.
1281-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade selling and donating the rights of Vela." (Bukhari, Feraiz: 18; Muslim, Itk: 2) right: The relationship of the liberated slave with his master and the rights between them. These rights are non-transferable and cannot be sold. This hadith is hasan authentic. Only Abdullah b. We know it from the narration of Dinar from Ibn Omar. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. b. Sulaym reported this hadith from Ubeydullah b. From Umar, Nafi, and Ibn Umar: “The Prophet (pbuh) forbade selling and donating the right of vela'.” He narrates. There is a mistake in this narration. Yahya b. Sulaym was wrong about this. es Sekafi, Abdullah b. Numayr and many others reported this hadith from Abdullah b. Umar, Abdullah b. They narrated from Dinar and Ibn Umar that this narration; Yahya b. It is more authentic than the narration of Sulaym.
1282-) According to the narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade selling an animal on loan in exchange for an animal.” (Abu Dâvûd, Magic: 15; Nesâî, Magic': 65) is the type of shopping to be done on the condition that you give an animal today and get an animal in return a few months later. The hadith of Samura is hasan authentic. It is a fact that Hasan heard hadith from Samura. Ali b. Al-Madinî and other hadith scholars also say the same. The practice of many scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods is according to this hadith. They do not consider it permissible to give an animal in advance and buy another animal in its place after a few months. Sûfyan es Sevrî, the people of Küfe and Ahmed are of the same opinion. scholars, on the other hand, allow this kind of exchange. Like Shafi'i and Ishaq.
1283-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "It is not right to buy and sell an animal on credit for two animals, but there is no harm in buying and selling in cash." (Abu Dawud, Magic: 15; Nesai, Magic': 65) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1284-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “A slave paid allegiance to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) regarding the migration, that is, he accepted his authority. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not know that he was a slave. Then the master of that slave came and wanted to take him back. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said sell it to me and bought it in exchange for two black slaves. After this incident, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not take allegiance from anyone without asking if he was a slave.” (Muslim, Musakat: 23; Nesai, Magic: 66) A hadith was also reported from Anas on this subject. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound. The practices of scholars are according to this hadith, and they do not see any harm in selling a slave instantly in exchange for two slaves.
1285-) Ubade b. According to the narration from Samit (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Gold is multiplied in return for gold, likewise for silver and silver, likewise for wheat and wheat, and date, again for date. , salt is exchanged for salt by its fold, barley for barley is exchanged for barley, on the condition that it is equal in scale and weight unit. Whoever gives more and gets more will be an interest. You can buy and sell the gold as you wish in exchange for silver, and the wheat as you wish in exchange for dates, and you can buy and sell the barley as you wish in exchange for dates (that is, by mutual agreement of size and price). (Muslim, Musakat: 15; Ibn Mâce, Ticarat: 50) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Abu Said, Abu Hurayra, Bilal and Enes. The hadith of Ubada is hasan authentic. Some of them narrated this hadith from Khalid with the same deed and added: "Sell the wheat as you wish in exchange for barley (that is, by agreeing on the size and price)". They also narrated this hadith from Khalid, Abu Qalabe, Abul Ash'as and Ubade and added the following: (Khalid and Abu Qalabe say) "Sell the wheat as you wish in exchange for barley." The practice of scholars is according to this hadith and they see no harm in buying and selling wheat with wheat and barley with barley with the same measurement units, provided that it is paid in advance. If the types change, there is no harm in excess and deficiency in cash trading. This is the view of the majority of scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and later periods. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. He says: The proof of this is the hadith of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) "Sell barley as you wish in exchange for wheat". A group of scholars; They do not like to see wheat being sold double for barley. Malik b. Enes says so, but the first view is more correct.
1286-) According to the narration from Nafi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I and Ibn Umar went to Abu Said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "My two ears listened," and he narrated the following hadith to us: In return, you can only exchange the silver for the same, and the silver for the silver, so that one of them is not more or less than the other, do not sell what is not available with what is available." (Muslim, Musakat: 15; Nesai, Magic': 47) In this regard, Abu Bakr, Ömer, Osman, Abu Hüreyre, Hisham b. Âmir, Berâ, Zeyd b. Erkam, Fedâle b. Hadith was also narrated from Ubayd, Abu Bakr, Ibn Omar, Abu'd Darda and Bilal. This hadith of Abu Said about interest is hasan authentic, and the practice of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and scholars from later periods is according to this hadith. But from Ibn Abbas; “There is a narration that the interest, which he sees no harm in exchanging gold with gold, in excess or incomplete, and again with silver, in a different way, can only be realized in sales on credit.” Similarly, a similar view was conveyed from Ibn Abbas' friends. When this hadith narrated by Abu Said al-Khudri from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was transferred to him, it is reported that Ibn Abbas abandoned this view. The first view is more correct. The practice of scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods is according to this hadith. This is the view of Sûfyan as-Sevri, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq. Ibn'ul Mubarak; It has also been narrated that he said "There is no difference of opinion on money changer".
1287-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: I used to sell camels in the market place called Baki. In the meantime, I used to buy and give silver coins in exchange for gold coins, and gold coins in exchange for silver coins. I came to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and he was leaving Hafsa's house. I asked him about this subject; They said, "There is no harm if it is in return for its value." (Bukhari, Magic': 77; Nesai, Magic: 52) Only Simak b. Harb'in, Said b. We know it from the narration he made from Jubayr and Ibn Umar. Dâvûd, İbn Ebi Hind reported this hadith from Saîd b. It was narrated from Jubayr and Ibn Umar as maqquf. The practices of some scholars are according to this hadith and they are of the opinion that there is no harm in exchanging silver with gold and gold with silver. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and those who came after him; they don't welcome it.
1288-) Malik b. Evs b. According to the narration from Hadesan (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar b. I came to a meeting where he was in Khattab saying: "Who wants to exchange these coins?" Talha b. Ubeydullah said: "Bring the gold you have, show us, and then we will give you the silver worth of it when our servant comes." Thereupon, Omar said: No, I swear, you will immediately give him the silver coins and you will get the gold from him in cash, because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Exchanging gold for silver is interest, if it is cash, it is different… exchanging wheat for wheat on loan is interest, cash. If it is different… It is interest to exchange barley for barley on loan, if it is cash, it is different… It is interest to exchange dates with dates on loan, if it is cash, it is different…” (Bukhari, Magic: 79; Muslim, Müsakat: 16) This hadith is hasan. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. The meaning of the word “hae wa hae” in the hadith means “hand in hand” or “take it and give it to me”. That means pre-purchase.
1289-) According to the narration from the father of Salim (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "Whoever buys a newly grafted date palm, the fruit of that year belongs to the seller. If the customer has stipulated while buying, the fruits belong to the buyer.” Whoever buys a slave with property, the property of the slave belongs to the seller. If the customer makes a condition when buying, the slave's property will also belong to the customer." (Bukhari, Magic': 84; Muslim, Magic: 15) A hadith was also reported from Jabir on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. This hadith is also reported from Zuhri, Salim and Ibn Umar. It is as follows: “Whoever buys a newly grafted date palm, the fruit of that date palm that year belongs to the seller. If the buyer has stipulated it while buying, it belongs to the buyer. Again, whoever buys a slave with property, the property of the slave belongs to the seller, if the buyer has stipulated, the property of the slave belongs to the customer. This hadith was also reported from Nafi and Ibn Umar as follows: "Whoever buys a date palm with grafted dates, the date of that date belongs to the seller." According to the narration from Ibn Umar and Umar, he said: "Whoever buys a slave who has property, that slave's property belongs to the seller. If the buyer stipulates, it belongs to the customer.” Ubaydullah, Ibn Umar and others have narrated the two hadiths from Nafi in the same way. Some people narrate this hadith from Nafi and Ibn Umar. Ikrima b. Khalid narrated from Ibn 'Umar in a similar way to Salim's hadith. The practices of some scholars are according to this hadith. Shafii, Ahmed, Ishaq are among them. b. Ismail says: The hadith that Zuhri narrated from Salim from his father is the most authentic narration on this subject.
1290-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Unless two shoppers separate from each other, they are free, that is, they can make the trade, finalize it, or give up.” When Ibn Umar bought a property, if he was sitting, he would stand up for the sale to take place. (That is, he would have changed his position.) (Bukhari, Magic: 44; Muslim, Magic: 10) Abu Barze, Hakim b. Hızâm, Abdullah b. Abbas, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Samura and Abu Huraira. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. The practice of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and some scholars from other periods is according to this hadith. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. The subject of "separation" in the hadith; It is not changing the word, but changing the position, that is, leaving the place physically. They say. The meaning of the word "unless the scholars differ from each other" in the hadith is to change the "subject of the talk". They say: The first view is more correct. Because Ibn Umar personally narrated this hadith from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and he knows better the meaning of the hadith he narrated. Again, according to the narration from Ibn Umar, he would walk a few steps in order for his trade to take place. Likewise, it was narrated from Abu Barza in this way.
1291-) Hakim b. According to a narration from Hizam (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “As long as the shoppers do not separate from each other, they have the choice of making the trade or giving up. If the customer and the seller are truthful about the goods and money and reveal everything clearly, this will be a blessing in their shopping. If both parties hide certain features of goods and money and lie, the abundance in their shopping will be removed.” (Bukhari, Magic: 19; Muslim, Magic: 11) This hadith is authentic. It has also been narrated from Abu Barza al-Aslemi as follows. After the two men had exchanged a horse, they disagreed and applied to Abu Barza, both of whom were in a ship at that moment. Abu Barza said: I see that you are inseparable from each other, so the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "As long as the seller and the customer are not separated from each other, they are free." According to the hadith, you can either finish shopping or give up. and some scholars from others say “Separation of buyer and seller”; They say it means changing the subject and the word. Sûfyan as-Sevri is of this opinion. Malik b. It is also reported from Enes in the same way. It is reported from Mubarak that he said: "How can I reject the view that separation is not with words but with bodies." While an authentic hadith was reported from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) on this subject, this hadith supports this view. If there is a sale of Muhayyerlik, which is mentioned in the hadith of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), the meaning of the phrase …” is that the seller leaves the choice whether or not to buy the customer after he has finished the shopping. After that, the customer leaves the choice whether to take the customer or not. If the customer chooses to sell after that, even if they have not left the body, the customer does not have the right to cancel the sale. Shafi'i and others have interpreted this word in this way. Abdullah b. It is a hadith narrated by Amr from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam).
1292-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The buyer and the seller are free to do or not trade until they separate. However, if they have made a purchase as a choice, the option continues until the time they specify. It is not permissible for one of the parties to leave the trading place in bad faith in order to prevent the shopping. It is not halal.” (Abu Dawud, Magic: 51; Nesai, Magic: 11) This hadith is hasan. What is meant in this hadith is as follows: "After the shopping is over, it means that one of the two of them leaves with bad intentions so that the seller or the customer will not withdraw. Even if this separation is verbal, this separation is made at that time because of the danger of withdrawal." If there was no discretion after the sale, this hadith would have no meaning. Because the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “It is not permissible for one of the parties to leave with bad intentions in order to spoil the trade.”
1293-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Let the shoppers leave each other happy,” that is, the shopping should be by mutual consent. (Abu Dâvûd, Magic: 51; İbn Mâce, Trade: 18) This hadith is strange.
1294-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) left a Bedouin free to buy or not buy after he finished shopping.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
1295-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), there was a person who was always deceived in shopping, he was always deceived in his shopping. His family came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! They said take away your right to shop. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) called him and prevented him from doing business. Man; When I said I can't stop without shopping, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "When you shop, give me your money, but say there is no cheating." (Abu Dawud, Ijara: 66; Nasai, Magic: 12) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Umar on this subject. The hadith of Anas is hasan sahih. The practices of some scholars are according to this hadith and they say: "If a free person is incompetent in shopping and is always deceived, his right to trade can be prevented." Ahmed and Ishaq think like this. Some scholars also say that such an application cannot be made to anyone who is free and sane.
1296-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person buys an animal in which milk has accumulated in its udder, it is free until he milks it and experiences it, if he does not want it, he will return the animal. He should give a measure of dates, as he makes use of his milk in a short period of time.” (Bukhari, Magic: 64; Muslim, Magic: 7) A hadith was narrated on this subject by Anas and one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam).
1297-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a person buys an animal in which milk has been accumulated in its udder, that person is free for three days; If he does not receive it and returns it, he should also give a measure of food other than wheat.” (Muslim, Magic: 7; Bukhari, Magic: 64) This hadith is hasan authentic. Our friends practice according to this hadith, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. "La Semrae" means out of wheat.
1298-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh): “He sold a camel to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and made it a condition to ride the camel until he went home.” (Muslim, Musakat: 21) The hadith is hasan authentic. It has been narrated from Jabir in different ways. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith, and they accept it as permissible if there is only one condition to make a trade. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars, on the other hand, do not accept the condition in shopping, they say that the shopping is not completed when it is necessary.
1299-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A pledged animal is ridden on its back, and its milk is drunk. ” (Bukhari, Rehn: 4) This hadith is hasan authentic. As merfu of this hadith, we know only from the narration of Amir al-Sha'bi from Abu Huraira. Many people have narrated the hadith from Â'mesh, Abu Salih and Abu Huraira as mawkuf. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars are; They say, "What is left as a hostage cannot be used in any way".
1300-) Fedâle b. According to the narration from Ubayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: On the day of Khaybar, I bought a necklace of twelve dinars of gold and jewellery. I conveyed the situation to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and he said: "Unless gold and jewelery are separated, they cannot be sold." (Muslim, Musakat: 16; Abu Dawud, Magic: 13)
1301-) Qutayba, from Abu Shuca through Ibn'ul Mubarak, Said b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Yazid with the same deed. This hadith is hasan authentic. The practices of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others are based on this hadith. They are of the opinion that a sword decorated with stones or silver, a belt decorated with silver or similar things should not be sold without separation. Ibn al-Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmad and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others allowed the buying and selling of such materials.
1302-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she wanted to buy the slave named Berire and set her free, and those who sold her stipulated that the right of the parents should belong to them. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do not look at what they stipulate, for the right of custody belongs to the person who freed the slave.” (Bukhari, Feraiz: 18; Muslim, Itk: 2) It is the legal closeness between the person who frees a slave he owns because he has freed him, and that slave, therefore, the person who frees him will also have the inheritance and other rights of the slave. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Umar on this subject. The hadith of Aisha is hasan sound and the practices of scholars are based on this hadith. One of the narrators of the hadith, Mansur b. Mu'temir; He was tagged as "Abu Attab". Abu Bakr al-Attar al-Basrī, quoting from Ali al-Madini, said: Yahya b. I heard from Said that he was saying: If a hadith from Mansur was transmitted to you, it means that your palm is filled with goodness. Do not look to anyone else, Yahya continued: Among those who narrated from Ibrahim Nahai and Mujahid, I did not see anyone stronger than Mansur. Mohammed; Abdullah b. Abdurrahman b. He told us that Mahdi said: “Mansur is the strongest of the people of Kufa.”
1303-) Hakim b. According to the narration from Hızâm (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent Hakîm b. He sent Hızâm to buy sacrifices with one dinar. When the sacrifice he bought for one dinar was given a profit, he sold it and bought another dinar instead. He came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) with a sacrifice and a dinar. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Slay the sheep as a sacrifice, and distribute the dinar as charity." (Ebû Dâvûd, Magic: 27) Hakim b. We know the hadith of Khidr only in this way. Habib b. ebî Sabit, I think Hakîm b. He did not hear any hadith from Khzam.
1304-) According to the narration from Urwa al-Bariki' (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave me a dinar to buy a sheep. I bought two sheep for him, sold one for one dinar, came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) with a dinar and a sheep, and explained the situation, he said: "May Allah make your trade fruitful for you." Later on, Urve would go to the market place of Kufa called Kunase and make big profits. Thus, he became one of the riches of Kufa. (Bukhari, Menakib: 28; Abu Dawud, Magic: 27)
1305-) Ahmed b. Saîd ed Dârimî, through Habban Saîd b. Zayd (he is the brother of Hammad b. Zayd) and said: Zubayr b. Hırrit narrated a similar hadith by quoting from Abu Labit. Some scholars applied the decree of this hadith and expressed their opinions according to this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars have not taken the ruling of this hadith. Shafii and Hammad b. Zayd's brother Said b. Zayd is one of them. Labîd's name is Limâze b. It is Zayyad.
1306-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a hadd is applied to a slave or inherited, he gets a share of the inheritance according to the amount that he can free himself. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued as follows; The amount of the diet to be paid to the mukatab slave is paid as his free diet, and the rest is paid to his master by taking the slave diet.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Diyat: 20) slave: It means a slave whose freedom is conditional upon completion of paying a certain wage. In inheritance and other matters, as much as he pays the price of freedom, the rest is paid to his master as the price of slavery. A hadith has also been narrated from Umm Salama on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Yahya b. Ibn Kathir narrated from Ikrima in the same way from Ibn Abbas. Khalid al-Hazza narrated from Ikrima as Ali's word from Ali. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith. Many of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and later periods said: "Even if a mukatab slave is found to be worth a dirham that he cannot pay, he cannot escape from slavery." Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1307-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather, he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) giving his sermon, saying: "If a person tells his slave that he will be free in exchange for a hundred arrows, that slave is also ten units or ten dirhams. Even if he had paid all his debt, he would not have been freed from slavery because he could not pay the remaining amount.” (Abu Dawud, Diyat: 20; Ibn Majah, Itk: 3) This hadith is hasan garib. The practice of many scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith, and they say: "A slave is considered a slave if there is an unpaid amount on him." Haccac b. Ertae, Amr b. He narrated similarly from Shuayb.
1308-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If one of you women were a mukatab slave, and that slave had enough money to pay the mukatab price, that slave would be freed from that moment on. Since there will be a foreign man, the lady who owns that slave should cover herself just as she does for other men.” Because that slave is no longer a member of that house. (Abu Dawud, Diyat: 20; Ibn Majah, Itk: 3) This hadith is hasan sahih. The meaning of this hadith is stated by scholars by saying, "This is the case for taqwa," and they say: "Even if a mukateb slave has enough money to pay for it, he will not be considered freed unless he pays it."
1309-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a man finds his own commercial property with a bankrupt person, he has more right than others to buy that property.” (Muslim, Musakat: 15) Hadith was also reported from Samura and Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. Shafii, Ahmed, Ishaq are among them. Some scholars are; They say, "He is like other creditors, he is no different from them." The people of Küfe are of this opinion.
1310-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We had wine, the property of an orphan. I also told him that it belonged to him, they ordered him to pour it out.” (Nesai, Magic': 90) In this regard, Enes b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik. The hadith of Abu Said is hasan authentic. This hadith has been similarly reported from people other than the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith, and they do not even welcome the evaluation of wine by making vinegar. The reason why this is not welcomed is that: -Allah knows better- There is wine to make vinegar in the house of a Muslim. Some scholars have said that if it has turned into vinegar, vinegar made from that wine can be eaten. Abu'l Veddak's name; Cebr b. Nevf.
1311-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Give the trust to the person who entrusted it to you. Do not betray the one who betrays you.” (Abu Dawud, Magic: 79) This hadith is hasan garib. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith, and they say: If a person has a receivable on another, the creditor has no right to take from him as much as the debtor would have received if a certain amount of property passed. Some scholars allow it. Sevrî is of this opinion and says: If the creditor has a gold receivable, if the debtor's silver belongs to him, he cannot seize that silver instead of the gold he will get, due to the difference in gender. However, if some of the gold of the debtor will pass in return for the gold that the creditor will receive, then he can seize and take as much of the gold as he will receive.
1312-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say in his farewell pilgrimage sermon: “The borrowed thing must be given to its place. The guarantor is like the debtor, he will pay the debt. The debt will definitely be paid.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Magic: 88; İbn Mâce, Loyalty: 5) Semure, Safvan b. Hadith was also narrated from Umayya and Anas. The hadith of Abu Umama is hasan garib. This hadith was also narrated in other ways, in the same way, by Abu Umama.
1313-) According to the narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The hand is responsible for keeping it until he pays for a loan that belongs to someone else.” (Abu Dawud, Magic: 88; Ibn Mâce, Sadakat: 5) says: Hasan forgets this hadith and says: "The borrower is the person you trust, if the borrowed property is damaged, he does not need to make compensation." This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and his successors is according to this hadith, and they say: Shafii and Ahmad are of the same opinion. Some scholars other than the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) do not need to compensate the borrower in case of damage, but if he does something wrong while using the trust, then he will make up for it. Sûfyan es Sevrî, İshâk and the people of Küfe are of this opinion.
1314-) Ma'mer b. According to the narration from Fadle (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “No one does hoarding except those who sin.” I said to Said: O Abu Muhammad! You are also stocking. He said: Ma'mer was also a stockist. (Muslim, Musakat: 26; Abu Dâvûd, İcara: 47) Said b. It is narrated that Musayyeb only stockpiled olive oil, wheat and similar things. On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Umar, Ali, Abu Umama, and Ibn Umar. The hadith of Ma'mar is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith and they do not tolerate stockpiling food. Some scholars, on the other hand, have said that stocks can be made other than foodstuffs. Mubarak says: There is no harm in stocking cotton, leather, and similar items.
1315-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Do not meet the goods on the way to the market before they come to the market, do not milk the animals to be sold and do not make the udder swollen. Do not raise prices artificially, do not advertise in order to sell each other's goods.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Mas'ud and Abu Huraira on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith and they do not tolerate the sale of an animal that accumulates milk in its udder. Muhaffele: It means an animal with a puffy udder. It is an animal that has not been milked by its owner for a few days and has a puffy udder, which is done so that the customer thinks he has a lot of milk. This is a kind of deception and cheating.
1316-) Abdullah b. According to what was reported from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Whoever takes false oaths in order to take a Muslim's property from him will enter the presence of Allah while Allah is angry with him. Eş'as b. Kays says: This word has also been said about me. There was a land issue between me and a Jew. When the Jew denied my rights, I took him before the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked me: "Do you have any evidence and witnesses?" he commanded. I said no too. Then he commanded the Jew to "take an oath". Then I said I would take an oath and take my property. Thereupon, Allah sent down the 77th verse of 3 Al-i Imran; “As a matter of fact, those who change their promises and oaths to Allah for a small gain will not be able to benefit from the blessings of the next world. On the Day of Judgment, Allah will neither speak to them nor look at them, nor will He cleanse them of their sins. For them is a painful chastisement.” (Muslim, Faith: 61) In this regard, Vâil b. Hucr, Abu Musa, Abu Umare b. Sa'lebe al-Ansari and Imran b. A hadith was also narrated from Husayn. The hadith of Mas'ud is hasan authentic.
1317-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "If the buyer and the seller disagree, the word is the word of the seller, the buyer is imaginary." (Abu Dawud, Magic: 72; Nesai, Magic: 82) This hadith is mursal. Because Avn b. Abdullah could not catch up with Ibn Mas'ud. Again, this hadith was written by Qasim b. It was narrated from Ibn Mas'ud by Abdurrahman as a mursal in the same way. Ishaq b. Mansur says: Ahmed b. I asked Hanbel: "The buyer and the seller disagree and there is no evidence." Ahmed: "The word is as the owner says, or on both sides, one returns the property and the other money." Isaac says the same. Whoever has the word, the oath falls to him. This is how it was reported from some scholars from Tabi'un. Shurayh and others hold this view.
1318-) Iyas b. According to the narration from Abd el Muzeni (radiyallahu anh): “The Prophet (pbuh) forbade the sale of water.” (Ebû Dâvûd, İcara: 61; Nesai, Magic: 89) In this regard, Câbir, Büheyse and his father, Abu Hüreyre, Âişe, Enes and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Iyas is hasan authentic. The practice of the majority of scholars is according to this hadith. They do not welcome the sale of water. Ibn al-Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmad and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars have allowed the sale of water. Hasan al-Basri is one of them.
1319-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The drinking of water cannot be prohibited for animals grazing on pastures and pastures, because with this prohibition, grazing of animals is prevented.” (Bukhari, Musakat: 3; Muslim, Musakat: 8) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ebul Minhal's name is Abdurrahman b. He is my Mut and he is from Kufa. Habib b. Abi Thabit narrated hadith from him. Minhal Seyyar b. Selame is from Basra and is a friend of Abu Barze al Eslemi.
1320-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “He forbade charging a male animal for insemination.” (Abu Dawud, Ijara: 40; Muslim, Musakat: 8) There are also hadiths related to this issue from Abu Hurayra, Anas and Abu Said. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. Some scholars have allowed something to be bought as a gift or treat.
1321-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked if a man from the Kilab tribe would be charged for the insemination of a male animal, but our Prophet forbade it.” When the man said: "We give the male animal for this job and therefore we are given something as a treat or gift"; “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) allowed it.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Ibrahim b. Humayd, Hisham b. We know from the narration he made from Urwa.
1322-) Rafi' b. According to a hadith (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The wages received for taking blood is dirty and it is forbidden. The fee that the prostitute receives for adultery is also filthy and forbidden. The money received in exchange for the sale of the dog is also filthy, and the sale of dogs is prohibited.” (Muslim, Musakat: 9; Nesai, Magic': 91) On this subject, Ömer, Ali, İbn Mes'ûd, Abu Mes'ud, Jabir, Abu Huraira, Ibn Abbas, Ibn Omar, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Jafar. The hadith of Rafi is hasan authentic. The practice of the majority of scholars is according to this hadith, and they do not tolerate the income from the sale of dogs. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars have allowed the buying and selling of hunting dogs.
1323-) According to the narration from Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: banned.” (Nesai, Magic: 91; Muslim, Musakat: 9) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1324-) According to the narration from the father of Ibn Muhayyisa, brother of Beni Harisa (radiyallahu anh), he asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) for permission to receive a fee for taking blood, but the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade him from this fee. . However, when he was constantly asking for permission, he said: "Use the money you took as fodder money for your camel or by feeding it to your slave." (Ebû Dâvûd, İcara: 38; Müsli, Müsakat: 11) Rafi' b. Hadîç, Ebû Cuhayfe, Câbir and Sâib b. Hadith was also narrated from Yazid. The hadith of Muhayyisa is hasan sound, and the practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. b. Hanbal says: "If the person who takes blood asks me for money, I will forbid him, and I will act according to the decree of this hadith.
1325-) According to the narration from Humayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: Anas was asked about the earnings of the person who took blood, and Anas said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had blood drawn. A slave named Abu Tayba received blood. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) ordered that two measures of food be given to him. He talked to the owners of this slave and they reduced the tax they received from the slave a little. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The most valuable way of treatment is to have blood drawn or it is one of your best medicines." (Muslim, Musakat: 11) Hadith on this subject was also reported from Ali, Ibn Abbas and Ibn Omar. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and others allowed that a person who takes blood can receive a wage. Shafi'i is one of them.
1326-) According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade people from earning money from the sale of dogs and cats.” (Abu Dawud, Ijara: 62; Ibn Mâce, Ticarat: 9) There is confusion in the document of this hadith. The profit from the sale of cats is not very solid. This hadith was narrated from A'mesh, some of A'mesh's men and Jabir, and they got into confusion about A'mesh in the narration of this hadith. Some scholars do not tolerate profits from the sale of cats, while others allow it. Ahmed and Ishaq are among those who give permission. Fudayl also narrated it from A'mesh, Abu Hazim and Abu Huraira in a different way.
1327-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade the earnings from eating cat meat and selling cats.” (Abu Dawud, Ijara: 62; Ibn Majah, Tijarat: 9) This hadith is strange. Apart from Abdurrezzak, Amr b. We do not know many people who narrate from Zayd.
1328-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade income from the trading of dogs other than hunting dogs.” (Nesai, Magic': 92; Muslim, Musakat: 10) This hadith is not authentic as it is. Ebûl Mühezzim's name is Yazîd b. He is Sufyan. Shu'ba spoke about him and said that he was weak. Another hadith similar to this was reported from Jabir, and his proof is not sound.
1329-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not sell the belly dancers who will be singing, do not buy them, do not teach them songs and make them artists, do not use their sales or the money earned through them. no its not. The money obtained from their trading or obtained through them is haram. Here is the following verse about this and similar things: “There are some people; They try to deceive and console people with these fairy tales, by buying empty words such as fairy tales, songs and songs, in order to mislead people from the way of Allah and make fun of them, without relying on any real knowledge and ignorance. , Trade: 11) In this regard, Umar b. Hadith was also narrated from Khattab. This is how we know the hadith of Abu Umama only from here. Some scholars such as Ali b. Talking about Yazid, they said that he was weak, that he was from Damascus.
1330-) According to a narration from Abu Ayyub (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Whoever makes a difference between the mother and child in the purchase and sale of a concubine, Allah will make that person with his loved ones on the Day of Judgment. opens it up.” (Ibn Majah, Trade: 46) This hadith is hasan garib.
1331-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) donated two slave slaves to me, and I sold one of them. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked me what did your slave do to make him invisible. So I reported my status, take it back; They ordered him back.” (Ibn Majah, Trade: 46) This hadith is hasan garib. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others do not tolerate that the prisoners of war, who are relatives, are separated from each other during the sale. Some scholars, on the other hand, have allowed those who were born and raised in the Islamic country to separate from each other. The first view is more correct. According to what is reported from An Nahai, he separated the mother and the child from each other in the sale. When asked the reason for this; He said, "I asked permission from that mother and she consented."
1332-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ruled as follows: "The benefit and income obtained from the purchased property belongs to the person who takes responsibility and risk." In other words, it is stated that whoever is responsible for a property, its income will also belong to him. (Abu Dawud, Ijara: 71; Nesai, Magic: 15) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith has been narrated in different ways, and the practice of scholars is according to this hadith.
1333-) Again, according to the narration from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ruled as follows: “The benefit and income obtained from the purchased property belongs to the person who takes responsibility and risk.” (Ibn Majah, Trade: 43; Abu Dâvûd, Magic: 71) This hadith was written by Hisham b. The narration of Urwa is hasan sahih garib. Muslim b. Khalid ez Zencî reported this hadith from Hisham b. He narrated from Urwa. Jarir also narrated from Hisham in the same way. There is a hidden flaw (Tedlis) in the hadith of Jarir. Jarir made tedlis in this hadith because he was Hisham b. He did not hear any hadith from Urwa. The meaning of the sentence "el Haracu we Zaman" in the hadith can be explained as follows: The person who buys the slave uses the slave for a while and may gain some gains through the slave, then finds a fault in the slave and returns it to the person from whom he bought it. In this case, the profit he earns belongs to the customer who bought the slave. Because if the slave was destroyed while in the customer's hands, if he died, he would disappear from the customer's descendants. This rule is also valid in all similar matters, that is, "The income obtained from the purchased goods belongs to the person whose responsibility belongs to him." Muhammed b. Ismail reported this hadith from Umar b. Ali found it strange as a narration. So I asked him if there was a hidden defect (tedlis). “No,” he said.
1334-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “People who are traveling should eat as much as they need from the fruit orchards while they are passing the orchards, but do not stuff them into their pockets or containers.” (Ibn Mâce, Ticarât: 67) Abdullah b. Amr, Abbad b. Shurahbil Rafi' b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr, Abu Lahm's freed slave Umayr and Abu Huraira. The hadith of Ibn Umar is strange. Only Yahya b. We know from the narration of Sulaym. Scholars have allowed travelers to eat the fruit of the gardens. Others do not like to eat unless they pay for it.
1335-) Rafi' b. According to what was narrated from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I used to stone the Ansar's dates and drop them. They caught me and took me to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "O Rafi'! Why do you stone their dates?” I said: O Messenger of Allah, because of hunger. They said: "Eat what is spilled under stoning, may Allah feed you and deceive you." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is hasan garib.
1336-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was asked about the condition of the fruit on its branch and he said: (Abu Dawud, Lukata: 10; Nesai, Kat'us Sarik: 12) This hadith is hasan.
1337-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the purchases of Muhakala, Müzabane, Muhabere and Sunya, that is, exempting from the sale of an unknown part of the goods sold. If there is a known amount, there is no harm in it.” (Muslim, Spell: 16) It is a form of exchange in which the wheat is estimated to be exchanged with the wheat in the ear and exchanged. It is a form of sale in the form of selling or exchanging the fresh dates on the tree in exchange for dried dates. To lease the land in exchange for a certain amount of the crop. It is the exclusion of something that is not specified in the sale from the sale. It's okay if it's obvious. This hadith is Yunus b. As Ubayd narrated from Ata and Jabir, it is hasan sahih garib.
1338-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever buys a food item should not sell it until it is completely delivered! Ibn Abbas says: "I think that everything is like food." (Bukhari, Magic: 54; Muslim, Magic: 8) Hadith on this subject was also reported from Jabir, Ibn Omar and Abu Huraira. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. The practice of the majority of scholars is according to this hadith, and they did not tolerate the customer's food being sold before receiving it. Some scholars, on the other hand, have allowed that anyone who buys something that is not weighed in edible or non-edible measure can sell it before receiving it completely. The subject on which scholars are strict on this issue is food. This is the view of Ahmed and Ishaq.
1339-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Let not one of you sell against the sale of another, again, let not one of you be fair against the worldliness of your other brother.” (Bukhari, Magic: 58; Nesai, Magic: 19) A hadith was also reported from Abu Huraira and Samura on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. It is also narrated that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "A Muslim does not bargain on the bargain of his Muslim brother." According to some scholars, the purpose of the sale in this hadith is this bargain.
1340-) According to the narration from Abu Talha (radiyallahu anh), he said: “O Messenger of Allah! I bought wine for the orphans under my care. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Put the wine and break your cup." (Ebû Dâvûd, Eşribe: 1; İbn Mâce, Ticârat: 11) Hadith was also reported from Jabir, Aisha, Abu Said, Ibn Mas'ud, Ibn Omar and Enes. Abu Talha hadith -Sevri reported this hadith by Süddî, Yahya b. He narrated from Abbad and Anas saying "Abu Talha was with him". This narration is more authentic than Lays's narration.
1341-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed ten people regarding alcohol; “To the person who squeezes the material to be made, to the person who provides the material to be compressed, to the drinker, to the person who carries it, to the person who is transported to him, to the person who offers it to someone else, to the person who makes the trade, to the person who eats his earnings, to the person who buys it and is bought for himself.” (Ibn Majah, Esribe: 6; Abu Dâvûd, Esribe: 3) The hadith of Anas is strange. A similar hadith is also reported from Ibn Abbas, Ibn Mas'ud, and Ibn Umar.
1342-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed ten people on the issue of alcohol: “The person who squeezes the stuff to be made with, the person who squeezes it, the person who supplies it, the drinker, the person who carries it, the person who carries it, the person who serves it and gives it to him. one who offers it to another, one who trades, one who eats his earnings, one who buys and what is bought for himself.” (Ibn Majah, Eşribe: 6) The hadith of Anas is strange. A similar hadith is also reported from Ibn Abbas, Ibn Mas'ud, and Ibn Umar.
1343-) Samura b. According to what is reported from Jundub (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you passes by a herd with milking animals, if the owner is there, let him get permission from him, let him milk the milk and drink it when he is allowed, and if there is no one at the head of the herd, he should call the owner three times. If anyone answers, let him get his permission. (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 85) A hadith was also narrated from Omar and Abu Said on this subject. The hadith of Samura is hasan garib. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Ali al-Madinî says: It is true that Hasan heard hadith from Samura. Some hadith scholars talked about Hasan's narration from Samura and said, "He narrates hadith from Samura's page".
1344-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), Jabir heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Allah and His Messenger; He has forbidden the sale of alcohol, self-dead animals, pigs and idols.” Thereupon, O Messenger of Allah! it was said. How about the tallow of a self-dead animal? Ships are lubricated, skins are dyed with those oils, and people use that oil in their lamps. After that, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "No, it is haram." The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) continued: "May Allah damn the Jews, Allah had forbidden them to use essential oil, so they melted it and sold it and ate its money." (Bukhari, Magic: 112; Muslim, Musaka: 13) A hadith was also reported from Omar and Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound. The practices of scholars are according to this hadith.
1345-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A bad example does not suit us Muslims. A person who returns from his donation is like a dog licking his vomit.” (Bukhari, Hibe: 28; Muslim, Hibat: 2) It is narrated that Ibn Omar quotes the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) as follows: “It is not permissible for a person to give a gift and then turn away from it. Only the father can return the gift he made for his child.”
1346-) Amr b. Shuayb narrated a similar hadith from Tawus, from Ibn Umar and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith, and they say: "Whoever makes a donation to one of his close relatives, that person has no right to withdraw from that donation. and whoever gives a donation to someone who is not a close relative can withdraw from his donation as long as he does not receive a reward. Sûfyan as-Sevri is of this opinion. He says: It is not permissible for a person to return from a gift he has given. However, the father can return the gift given to his child. Shafii, Abdullah b. He uses the hadith "It is not permissible for a person to return from his gift, but a father can return a gift he has given to his child" narrated by Umar as evidence and says so.
1347-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade the sale of the Muhakala ve Müzâbene model, but the Arıyye model allowed the sale. (Abu Dawud, Magic': 33; Ibn Majah: Ticarat: 55) It is the exchange of the fruit of several date trees, presumably by giving them dried dates, in order to make their children eat fresh dates. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Huraira and Jabir on this subject. Zayd b. The fixed hadith is narrated in this way. Muhammed b. Ishaq reported this hadith Ayyub, Ubeydullah b. Umar, Malik b. Narrated by Anas, Nafi' and Ibn 'Umar: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade bargain and negotiation sales. In the same year, Zayd b. It has been reported from Sabit and it is as "he allowed the sale of ariyya". This figure is Muhammad b. It is more authentic than the narration of Ishaq.
1348-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) permitted the sale of ariyya (ariyya) in less than five vesaks.” (Abu Dawud, Magic': 33; Ibn Majah: Ticarat: 55)
1349-) Qutaybe from Malik, Dâvûd b. He narrated a similar hadith from Husayn. Again, this hadith is narrated from Malik: "The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) allowed it to be sold to arya in quantities of five or less."
1350-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “By estimating the amount of dried dates that the fresh fruit on the tree can produce when it dries, he allowed it to be sold for that many dried dates.” (Ibn Majah, Ticarat: 55; Abu Dâvûd, Magic': 18) This hadith is hasan authentic. The hadith of Abu Huraira is also hasan authentic. The practices of some scholars are according to this hadith. Shafi'i, Ahmad and Ishaq are among them and they say: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the bargaining and mutabanen and allowed the araya type of sale. While saying this, Zayd b. They bring the Hadith of Thabit and Abu Huraira as evidence and accept the sale of less than five documents permissible. According to these scholars, the meaning of this hadith is that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave such permission to make it easy for the people. Because, people, we can only buy fresh dates in exchange for dried dates. They complained that we had no other option. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) allowed them to eat fresh dates, presumably to replace the fresh dates with dried dates if they had less than five vesak.
1351-) Rafi' b. Hadîç (radiy-Allâhu anh) and Sahl b. According to what is reported from Hasma, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "The sale of muzabene, that is, the sale of fresh dates in exchange for dried dates, only allowed "Araya" owners. Likewise, he forbade the buying and selling of raisins with raisins and any fruit by guesswork.” (Abu Dawud, Magic'; 21; Ibn Mâce, Tijarat: 55) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is.
1352-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), -Qutayba narrated this hadith as a merfu.- The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not anger the customer by increasing the price of that good by pretending to deceive someone." (Bukhari, Magic: 60; Muslim, Magic: 4) Hadith on this subject was also reported from Ibn Omar and Anas. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith, and they do not tolerate cheating by angering customers. “Necş” When the customer comes to the seller, it is called the act of angering the customer, which is done only to deceive that customer without the intention of buying it by giving a price higher than the value of that good, which means a deception. He says: If a person tempts the customer for the seller, he will sin because of what he has done, but shopping is permissible. Because it is not the seller who cheats.
1353-) Suveyd b. According to the narration from Kays (radiyallahu anh), he said: I and Mahreme (Mahrefe) brought cloth from el Abdi Hecer. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) came to us and bargained for some baggy fabric, and we had a shop assistant working for a fee who did the measuring work. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to this clerk, "When measuring, increase in favor of the customer." (Abu Dawud, Magic: 7; Nesai, Magic: 54) A hadith was also reported from Jabir and Abu Huraira on this subject. The hadith of Suwayd is hasan authentic. Scholars consider it mustahab to have excess in measure and weighing in favor of the customer. He narrated this hadith from Simak and said "Abu Safwan" and said the same hadith.
1354-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever gives time to the debtor who is in trouble or donates all or some of his debt to the debtor, Allah will set his throne on the Day when there is no shadow on the Day of Judgment. will overshadow its shadow.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ebul Yeser, Abu Qatada, Huzeyfe, Ibn Mas'ud, Ubade and Jabir. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan sahih in this form.
1355-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A person from the past societies was brought to account, and nothing was found in the name of charity. It was known that this rich person, who was with people, ordered his staff to postpone the debts of those who were short-handed. God; We are more worthy of this gift than that person, so give up his sins.” (Muslim, Musakat: 6) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ebul Yeser's name is Ka'b b. It is Amr.
1356-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is unjust and cruel for a rich person to delay his debt. And whoever is transferred to a person who has the means to be paid, should apply to him.” (Abu Dawud, Magic': 10; Muslim, Musakat: 7) Ibn Omar and Sharid b. A hadith was also narrated from Suveyd al-Sakafi.
1357-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is unjust and cruel for a rich person to delay his debt. And whoever is transferred to a person who has the opportunity to be paid, should apply to him, and he should not be in the situation of making two sales in one sale.” (Muslim, Musakat: 7; Abu Dawud, Magic': 10) The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan authentic. The meaning of this hadith is as follows: If one of you is referred to someone who is trusted and has money to receive his debt, he should accept this transfer. Some scholars say: If the creditor is transferred to a person who is able and trusted, if he accepts this transfer, the transferor will be cleared of his debt and the creditor will not have the right to return to the transferor. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars are; If the creditor falls into trouble due to the bankruptcy of the person to whom it was transferred, he can return to the first creditor. These scholars accept the statement of Osman and other scholars, “It is not possible for a Muslim's property to be wasted” as evidence. says: The meaning of the hadith "It is not possible for a Muslim's property to be a waste" is this: When the creditor is transferred to another person, he thinks that he has money, but he is a broken person. In this case, there is a situation where a Muslim's property is wasted. This hadith is valid in such cases.
1358-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade sales in the form of argumentation and mulamasa.” (Bukhari, Magic: 62; Muslim, Magic: 1) The model of touching and touching is shopping. It is a transaction in which two people touch each other's clothes or touch the ware with their hands without thinking about each other, and there is deception. It is the exchange of throwing and throwing. It is a form of selling, which is deception, similar to gambling, in such a way that shopping occurs by throwing a stone. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Said and Ibn Umar on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. It is the seller's saying, when I threw a piece of property at you, that transaction took place between the two of us. If: If you touch a commodity, shopping takes place. Even if he does not see and knows the quality and number of that good, or even if it is in a container... This kind of shopping is the model of ignorance, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade them.
1359-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) came to Madina, people were buying fruit on credit with cash. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said; He said, "Whoever is going to buy fruit and goods on credit with cash, should do it in a certain scale, with a certain weight and with a certain maturity." (Nesâî, Magic': 72; Muslim, Müsakat: 25) İbn ebi Evfâ and Abdurrahman b. Hadith was also narrated from Ebza. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith, and in cash and on loan; They have allowed the purchase of food, clothing, clothes and everything whose quantity is known. They put forward different opinions about buying animals on credit with cash. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others say that animals can be sold on loan for cash. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and his successors do not approve of it. Sûfyan es Sevrî and the people of Küfe are of this opinion. Minhal's name; Abdurrahman b. He is my Mut.
1360-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Whoever has a partnership in a real estate should not sell his share in that real estate without offering it to a shareholder." (Muslim, Musakat: 28; Nesai, Magic': 109) The certificate of this hadith is not absolute. I heard from Muhammad, he said: Suleyman al-Yeşkûrî's, Câbir b. It is said that Abdullah died while he was alive, and neither Qatada nor Abu Bishr heard hadiths from him. b. Bukhari says: We do not know that any of them listened to hadiths from Suleiman al-Yeshkuri. Amr b. If it is a dinar, it is different… Maybe Amr b. Dinar, Câbir b. While Abdullah was alive, he may have listened to hadiths from Suleyman al-Yeshkuri. He continues as follows: However: Qatada narrates hadiths from the pages that Suleiman al-Yeshkuri wrote, not from himself. His, Jabir b. He had a book in which he collected the hadiths he narrated from Abdullah. Ali b. al Medînî's Yahya b. Quoting from Said and Süleyman et Taymi, he says: Jabir b. They took Abdullah's hadith notes to Hasan al-Basri, he took them or narrated them. They took him to Qatada and he narrated it. Then they brought it to me, I did not narrate it, he says: "I refused."
1361-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade sales in the form of mukhakala, mukabane, mukhabarah and muaveme. He allowed the sale of Araya.” (Muslim, Magic: 16; Abu Dâvûd, Magic': 18) Muzabene and Muhabere: See the event numbered 1290. Selling the fruit of a tree that is several years old before its fruit grows. See incident 1300. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1362-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: In the time of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), prices rose, upon which O Messenger of Allah! They said put a limit on the prices, the prices are too high. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is Allah who sets prices, and Allah who expands and gives a lot. It is God who gives sustenance. He said, "It is Allah who brings shortage and famine, I hope to reach Allah even though no one has the right to property or blood with me." (Abu Dawud, Magic: 49; Ibn Majah, Ticarat: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1363-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stopped by a heap of wheat and when he dipped his hand in the heap, his hand became wet. Thereupon he said: "O what is the owner of this heap?" The man said: “O Messenger of Allah! Rain fell from the sky," he said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Shouldn’t you put the wet part on the pile for the customer to see? Then he continued: “Whoever deceives is not one of us.” (Ibn Majah: Ticarat: 36; Abu Dawud, Ijara: 50) Ibn Omar, Ebul Hamza, Ibn Abbas, Burayde, Abu Bürde b. Niyâr and Huzeyfe b. Hadith was also narrated from Yaman. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith and they do not welcome cheating and say that cheating is haram.
1364-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) borrowed a camel of a certain age from someone, then gave him a camel that was better than his camel and said: “The best of you are are the best of you in terms of pay.” (Bukhari, Vekale: 5; Muslim, Musakat: 22) A hadith was also reported from Abu Rafi on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Shu'ba and Sufyan narrated this hadith from Salama. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. They see no harm in borrowing a camel of a certain age. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars do not like to borrow animals.
1365-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); A man asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) for what he would get and he acted harshly, and the Companions wanted to lynch him. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Do not touch him, because the owner of the right has the right to speak. They said to buy a camel and give it to him. They looked for such a camel, but they were able to find a camel superior to him. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Buy that camel and give it to him, no doubt the best of you is the one who behaves best in terms of payment." (Bukhari, Vekale: 6; Muslim, Musakat: 22)
1366-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. From Shu'be through Cafer, Salama b. He narrated a similar hadith from Kühehl to us. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1367-) According to a narration from Abu Rafi (radiyallahu anh), the freed slave of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) borrowed a young camel from a man, and then Zakat camels came to him. Abu Rafi' says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered me to pay for that man's camel. Me too; I could not find young camels among the camels, I said, they are all six or seven years old camels. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Give him one of them, because the best of people is the one who pays his debts best". (Muslim, Musakat: 22) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1368-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Allah loves those who are tolerant in selling, tolerant in buying and tolerant in paying." (Bukhari, Magic': 16; Nesai, Magic': 104) A hadith was also reported from Jabir on this subject. This hadith is garib. Some people have narrated this hadith from Yunus, Said al-Makburi and Abu Huraira.
1369-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Allah forgave a man among the previous nations. He was still generous and tolerant when he asked for it.” (Bukhari, Magic: 16) This hadith is sound hasan garib as it is.
1370-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When you see someone selling and buying in the mosque; Say, "May Allah not give profit to your trade". Say, "When you see someone who is looking for his lost in the mosque, may Allah not let you find him". (Muslim, Mesacid and Mevaziis Salat: 18) The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan garib. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith and they do not welcome shopping in mosques. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars have allowed this.
1371-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mevhib (radiyallahu anh), Osman (radiyallahu anh) told Abdullah, son of Omar, to go and be a judge of the people. Abdullah: “O Commander of the Believers, will you forgive me from this duty? Said. When Osman said, "What do you dislike about this job, your father used to do this job," Abdullah replied. I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "Whoever becomes a judge and judges with justice, he will have given his due." What can I expect beyond that? This hadith is long. (This much has been taken here.) (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also reported from Abu Huraira on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Umar is strange and its attribution is in my opinion not absolute. Abdulmalik, whom Mu'temir narrated from himself, was Abdulmalik b. Ebi Cemile.
1372-) Muhammed b. İsmail, Hüseyin b. From Bishr, Sharik, A'mesh, Sahl b. Narrated by Ubayda from Ibn Burayda's father, he said: “There are three types of adjudication and domination; two are in Hell and one is in Heaven. A judge knowingly and unjustly judges, this is Hell. A judge who usurps people's rights due to their ignorance and ignorance without researching evidence and documents, which is Hell. A judge who rules with truth and justice, which is Paradise.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Adiye: 3; İbn Mâce, Ahkam: 3)
1373-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever wishes to be a judge is left alone with himself, that is, he will not be helped by Allah. Whoever is brought to this view by force, Allah will send an angel to him and guide him to the right." (Ibn Majah, Ahkam: 1)
1374-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: A person who wants to be a judge while applying to intermediaries is left on his own, Allah does not help him. sends down an angel who will guide him to the truth. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. It is stronger than the narration of Israel from Abdul Â'la.
1375-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever is appointed to be a judge among people is as if he was slain without a knife.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 1; İbn Mâce, Ahkam: 1) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. It was also narrated from Abu Huraira in other ways.
1376-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When the judge gives the right decision by using all his strength, he will receive two rewards. Likewise, if he is wrong in his judgment, he will receive a reward.” (Bukhari, I'tisam: 21; Muslim, Akdiye: 6) Amr b. As and Ukbe b. A hadith was also narrated from Amir. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan garib in this form. This hadith is written by Sûfyan es Sevrî, Yahya b. We know that it was narrated from Said only by the narration of Abdurrezzak from Sufyan al-Sevri through Ma'mer.
1377-) It has been narrated from Muâz (radiy-Allâhu anh): “When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent Muâz to Yemen as a judge (judge), how would you judge him? He commanded. Muadh: I will judge according to what is in Allah's book. According to the Sunnah of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)… he said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If it is not in the Sunnah of the Messenger of Allah." Muâz said: I will find a verdict by making ijtihad with my own opinion and I will decide accordingly. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Praise be to Allah, who made the Messenger of Allah able to act in accordance with the wishes of Allah, the Messenger of Allah". (Abu Dawud: Akdıyye: 11)
1378-) Muhammed b. Beşşar (radiy-Allâhu anh), Muhammed b. Cafer, Abdurrahman b. Mahdi, from Shu'ba, Abu Avn, Haris b. They narrated a similar hadith to us from Amr, the son of his brother Mughira, the son of Shu'ba, a person from the people of Khimis, and Muadh. We know this hadith only in this way. In my opinion, the proof of this hadith is not absolute. Abu Avn es Sekafi's name is Muhammed b. It is Ubeydullah.
1379-) According to a narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The most beloved of those who believe in Allah on the Day of Judgment and the closest in terms of residence will be a just ruler. The one with whom Allah is most angry and farthest in terms of residence is the cruel ruler.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Abi Awfa. The hadith of Abu Said is hasan garib. We only know it as such.
1380-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Abi Awfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah is with the judge as long as he does not commit injustice or oppression. If he is unjust and wronged, Allah will move away from him and the devil will be with him.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. We know him only through the narration of Imran al-Kattan.
1381-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: “If two people appoint you as an arbitrator to judge between them, do not judge as soon as you listen to one of them. You know better what to give.” Ali says: I have been making this judgment ever since. (Abu Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 6; İbn Mâce, Ahkam: 1)
1382-) According to the narration from Ebul Hasen (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Amr b. Murra said to Muawiya: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "If any ruler slams his door in the face of the needy, the poor and the needy, Allah closes the gates of the heavens against his every need." Thereupon, Muawiya appointed an officer who looked after the needs of the people. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Umar on this subject. Amr b. The hadith of Murra is strange. This hadith has also been narrated in other ways. Amr b. Murre al-Cuheni is referred to by his nickname Abu Meryem.
1383-) A similar hadith was narrated from Abu Maryam, the friend of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Tirmidhi narrated it.) b. Abi Meryem is from Damascus. Burayd b. Ebi Meryem is from Kufa. Abu Meryem, Amr b. He is known as Murre al-Cuhenî.
1384-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Abi Bakra (radiyallahu anh), he said: Ubaydullah b. While Abu Bakr was in charge, my father wrote to him: Do not judge between two people when you are angry! For, I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say, "The judge should not judge between two people when he is angry." (Ibn Majah, Ahkam: 4; Abu Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 9) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Bakr's name is Nüfey.
1385-) Muâz b. According to a narration from Cebel (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent me as governor of Yemen; When I was about to set off, he sent a messenger after me and turned me away and said: "Do you know why I turned you away? Do not take anything without my permission because that is treason. Whoever commits treason in this world will be brought before Allah on the Day of Judgment with that treachery. That's why I summoned you, now you can go on your duty." (Tirmidhi narrated.) In this regard, Adıy b. Amîra, Büreyde, Müstevrid b. Hadith was also narrated from Shaddad, Abu Humayd and Ibn Umar. The hadith of Muadh is strange and we know it only in this form from the narration of Abu Usama, Davud al-Awdi.
1386-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed both the one who gives a bribe and the one who takes it. (Ebû Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 4; İbn Mâce, Ahkâm: 2) Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Aisha, Ibn Hadide and Umm Salama. The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan sahih, and this hadith is from Abu Salama b. Abdullah b. It was also narrated from Amr. It was also narrated from Abu Salama's father and it is not authentic. Abdullah b. I heard Abdurrahman said: Abu Salama's Abdullah b. The hadith he narrated from Amr is the best and most authentic narration on this subject.
1387-) Abdullah b. According to what was narrated from Amr, he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed both the one who gives a bribe and the one who takes it." (Abu Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 4; İbn Mâce, Ahkam: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1388-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Even if a piece is given to me, I will accept it. If I was invited to a piece of food, I would definitely go.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) Ali, Âisha, Muğîre b. Shu'be, Salman, Muaviye b. Hayde and Abdurrahman b. A hadith was also narrated from Alkame. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic.
1389-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "You are applying to me to settle your cases. Some of you may be more expressive than others in putting forward the proof that I am a human being like you. In such a case, I can pass judgment in favor of that person. For this reason, if I have judged something from his brother's right based on whose correct expression, I have cut a piece of fire for him. Do not let him take this piece that I cut with that judgment.” (Bukhari, Shahadat: 28; Muslim, Akdıyye 3) A hadith was also reported from Abu Huraira and Aisha on this subject. The hadith of Umm Salama is hasan authentic.
1390-) Vâil b. According to a narration from the father of Hujr (radiyallahu anh), he said: A man from Hadramaut and a man from Kinda came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The man from Hadremevt said: O Messenger of Allah! This man took my land from me, whereupon Kindeli said: That land is my property, he has no rights in this land. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to the man of Hadremevt, is there any witness or document showing that that land belongs to you? said. The man said no. In that case, you can only make this person you are claiming to take an oath when you say there is nothing else to do; The man said: This man is a liar. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'There is nothing I can do other than that. He says: When the Kindeli man was walking towards the pulpit to take an oath, when he turned his back, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If he takes an oath to take your property unjustly, he will enter the presence of Allah even though Allah has turned away from him." (Ebû Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 23; İbn Mâce, Ahkâm: 7) Ömer, İbn Abbas, Abdullah b. Amr and Eş'as b. Hadith was also narrated from Qays. Vâil b. The hadith of Hujr is hasan sound.
1391-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said in one of his sermons: "It is necessary for the defendant to take an oath to prove and bring evidence." (Ebû Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 23; İbn Mâce, Ahkâm: 7) There is a rumor in the document of this hadith. b. It is noted in the hadith that Ubeydullah al-Arzemi was weak in terms of memory. Ibn al-Mubarak and other hadith scholars say that he is weak.
1392-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is up to the defendant to take an oath.” (Abu Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 23; İbn Mâce, Ahkâm: 7) This hadith is hasan sound and the practice of scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith. It is also necessary for the defendant to do so”.
1393-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made an oath together with one witness.” Rabia says: Sa'd b. Ubade's son informed me and said: Among Sa'd's notes, "We found that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave his verdict by taking an oath together with a witness." (Abu Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 21; İbn Mâce, Ahkam: 31) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ali, Jabir, İbn Abbas and Sürrak. The hadith in which Abu Hurayra said, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made an oath together with one witness" is hasan garib.
1394-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made an oath together with a witness.” (Ibn Majah, Ahkam: 31)
1395-) Cafer b. According to the narration from the father of Muhammad (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave his verdict by making him take an oath together with one witness.” b. Muhammad: Ali also judged between you accordingly. (Abu Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 21; İbn Mâce, Ahkam: 31) This narration is more robust. Likewise, Sûfyan es Sevrî, Cafer b. He narrated from Muhammad and his father as a mursal. Abdulaziz b. ebî Seleme and Yahya b. Sulaym reported this hadith from Cafer b. They narrated from Muhammad from his father and from Ali. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith, and they are of the opinion that it is permissible in property and law to give an oath with only one witness. Malik b. Anas, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them and they say: "Only in civil and property cases, judgments are made on the basis of an oath together with a single witness. The people of Küfe and others do not agree with this view.
1396-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever frees his share, share or share in a slave and if this person has enough to cover the other half of the slave, he will also have that half. He pays his other partner's share at a normal price, and that slave is completely freed and becomes free. Ayyub says: Nafi' may have said in this hadith: "As much as he frees, he is freed." (Bukhari, Itk: 4) The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. Salim narrated a similar hadith from his father.
1397-) According to the narration of Salim (radiy-Allâhu anh) from his father, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever frees his share in a slave and has money to cover the whole of that slave, that slave will be freed from his property.” (Bukhari, Itk: 4) This hadith is hasan sahih.
1398-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever frees his share and share in a slave, that person has the wealth to meet the other share of that slave. salvation is from that person's property. If he has no property, the slave is given a fair value and the slave is employed in a job that is not difficult to earn enough money to pay the other shareholder's share. (Bukhari, Itk: 5; Muslim, Itk: 2) Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr.
1399-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Yahya b. From Said, Said b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abu Arube to us, and he called it Shakisan (hisseni) in this narration. This hadith is hasan authentic. Ebban b. Yezîd is also from Qatade, in the same way as Said b. He narrated it like the narration of Abi Aruba. Shu'ba narrated this hadith from Qatada and did not mention the issue of Siaya (working a slave and paying for himself). Sûfyan es Sevrî, the people of Küfe and İshâk think in this way. Some scholars say the following: "When a slave is a partner between two people and one of them frees his share, if he has property, he will also free the slave from his own property by paying the share of his partner. If he does not have any property, the slave is partially freed as much as he is freed and siaya (making him work and pay) is not made. Some scholars say so based on a hadith reported from Ibn Umar. This is the view of the people of Madinah. Malik b. Enes, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion.
1400-) According to the narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Donations made by saying “lifetime” are permissible for the person who is made, and are an inheritance for the people of the person who donates it.” In other words, that person will benefit from that property for life, and when that person dies, it passes to the heirs of the donor. (Ebû Dâvûd, Ticarat: 85) In this regard, Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit, Jabir, Abu Huraira, Aisha, Ibnuz Zubayr and Muawiya.
1401-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a person or his children are given a property saying it is for life, it belongs to the person to whom the property is given, it does not return to the giver because the inheritance has made a valid donation. ” (Bukhari, Hibe: 32; Muslim, Hibat: 22) It is the form of donation that I donated this property to someone else during his lifetime, or I donated this property to him as long as I am alive, or I donated this property to him as long as I am alive, sometimes it is mine after his death, sometimes It is one of the donation models of the jahiliyyah period, which can be added to the form of my heirs after my death. There are many different provisions; For detailed information, see the fiqh books. This hadith is hasan authentic. Ma'mer and others narrated from Zuhri in a similar way to the narration of Malik. Some of them did not mention the word "akibihi" (to their children) by quoting from Zuhri. This hadith is also narrated from Jabir in another way: This hadith, which does not pass on to offspring and offspring, is hasan. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith and they say: “The one who performs Umrah; As long as you and your children say that as long as they are alive, that property will belong to that person and will not return to the person who made the umra. But if he doesn't say that it is your children, the person who does umra will return when he dies." Malik b. Enes and Shafii hold this view. There is also the command "It is permissible for a person who has done Umrah" in a way other than (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) that some scholars also practice their practices according to this hadith and say: When the person who has made Umrah dies, even if it is not said to his heirs, that person's debt will be passed on. Sufyan as-Sevri, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion.
1402-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Umra is permissible and valid for a person. Rukba is also permissible and valid for anyone who does it again.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Ticarat: 87) It is a type of donation made in the form of giving this property to someone else by means of rukba, if you die before me, the property will return to me, but if I die first, the property will be yours. Such donations were made in the period of ignorance. This hadith is hasan. Some of them have narrated this hadith through Abu'z Zubayr with the same deed as a source from Jabir. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith: "Rukba is permissible like Umra," they say. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars from the people of Kufa and others, on the other hand, distinguish between umra and rukba and consider umra permissible and do not consider rukba permissible. The word “rukba” means: “This property is yours as long as you live. But if you die before me; That property will be mine.” In Ahmad and Ishaq they say: "Rukba is just like Umra, the property belongs to the person to whom it was given and does not return to the person who gave it."
1403-) Amr b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Awf al-Museumi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Peace is valid among Muslims. However, the peace that renders halal haram or makes haram halal is invalid. Muslims are bound by their conditions. But the conditions that make halal haram and haram halal are invalid." (Ibn Majah, Ahkam: 23) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1404-) It was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): (A'rec says I heard him personally) The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If one of you's neighbor asks for permission to put a tree head on your wall; Don't get in the way of this." When Abu Huraira said this, the people there bowed their heads as if they had said something unnecessary. Thereupon, Abu Huraira said: "Why do I see you as turning away from this sunnah, I swear by God, if you do not care about this business, I will put the tree head that will be placed on the wall of this house between your shoulders." (Bukhari, Mazâlim: 20; İbn Mâce, Ahkâm: 15) Ibn Abbas and Mücemmil b. Hadith was also narrated from the concubine. The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan sound and the practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. This is the Shafi'i view. Among them Malik b. Some scholars, including Enes, say: He can prevent his neighbor from putting the tree head on his own wall. The first view is more correct.
1405-) According to a narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The oath is on what the other party accepts and makes him swear.” He says: The oath is according to what the other party (the adversary) has confirmed you (if he has made you swear). (Muslim, Eyman: 4; Abu Dâvûd, Eyman: 7) This hadith is hasan garib. Abdullah b. Ebi Salih, Süheyl b. He is the brother of Abi Salih. This person only Huseym, Abdullah b. We know it from the narration he made from Abu Salih. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. According to what is reported from Ibrahim Nahai, he said: "If the one who gives the oath is cruel and unjust, the intention is the intention of the one who takes the oath.
1406-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "When you open new roads between the garden and the fields, make the width of the road seven args." (Abu Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 31; İbn Mâce, Ahkam: 16)
1407-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If you disagree about the road, make it seven cubits in width." (Abu Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 31; İbn Mâce, Ahkam: 16) This hadith is more authentic than Vekî's narration. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. Beşîr b. The hadith narrated by Ka'b el Adevi from Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Some say this hadith from Qatada, Bashir b. They narrated from Nahik and Abu Huraira that this narration is not very solid.
1408-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The divorced child left the mature child free to choose his mother or father regarding the children with whom the husband and wife could not get along.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Talak: 34; İbn Mâce, Ahkam: 22) Abdullah b. Amr and his grandfather Abdulhamid b. A hadith was also narrated from Jafar. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. Abu Maymuna's name is Sulaym. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith, and they say: If there is a disagreement about the child, the child is free to choose the parents. . If he has reached the age of seven, the child is free to choose the parents. Hilal b. Abu Maimune; Hilal b. Ali b. It is Usama. He is from Medina, from Yahya b. Ebi Kathir, Malik b. Enes and Füheyl b. Solomon narrated hadith.
1409-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The most lawful thing you eat is from your own earnings, and your children are from your earnings.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Magic: 77; Nesai, Magic; 1) On this subject, Jabir and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. This hadith is hasan authentic. Some reported this hadith as Umāra b. They narrate from Umair from her mother and from Aisha. The majority, on the other hand, narrate it by saying, "From his aunt and Aisha". The practice of some scholars from the Companions of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith, and they say: "The hand of the father is free in the property of the child, he can take whatever he wishes." Some scholars also say, "The child takes from his property only when he is in need of that property".
1410-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “One of the wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) sent him a plate of food, but Aisha spilled it with her hand.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Food is compensated with food and pots and pans." (Ibn Majah, Ahkam 14; Abu Dawud, Ijara: 89) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1411-) According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) borrowed a plate, but the plate was lost, and he compensated the plate to its owners.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is not very sound. In my opinion, Suwayd wants to say the hadith, which is the narration of Sufyan al-Thawri. The hadith of As-Sawri is more authentic. Abu Dawud's name was Amr b. It is Sa'd.
1412-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "When I was fourteen years old, I was presented to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to join an army prepared to go to war. He refused to accept my participation in the war. The next year, at the age of fifteen, I was presented to him to join an army ready for war, this time he accepted me.” says: This hadith was reported by Umar b. When I narrated to Abdulaziz; "This; is the age limit between young and old…” and stated in writing that this limit is fifteen years old. (Bukhari, Maghazi: 31)
1413-) Ibn Abi Omar, Sufyan b. Ubeydullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Umar, Nafi, and Ibn Umar, and in this narration: “Umar b. He did not mention the section "Abdulaziz in writing that this is the age limit between juveniles and seniors". In the narration of Uyeyna, Nafi' says: "Buhadith Omar b. When I told Abdulaziz, this is the age limit between those who could not participate in the war and those who could join the war. This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of some of the scholars is according to this hadith, and Sûfyan es Sevrî, İbn'ül Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them and they say: ” and Ishaq say the following: Entering puberty is known with three patterns: 1- To reach the age of fifteen, 2- To be inflamed, 3- If the age and inflamation are not known, pubic hair growth.
1414-) According to what is reported from Barâ (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: My uncle, Abu Bürde b. Niyâr; He stopped by me with a banner in his hand, I said, where are you going? He said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) commissioned me to cut the neck of a man who married his father's wife and bring him his head." Said. (Ebû Dâvûd, Hudûd: 26; İbn Mâce, Hudûd: 35) Hadith was also narrated from Kurretel and Muzeni on this subject. The hadith of barâ is hasan garib. Muhammed b. Ishaq reported this hadith from Adiy b. From Sabit, Abdullah b. He narrated from Yazid and Bara. Likewise, this hadith is from Eş'as, Adiyy, Yazid b. It was also narrated from al-Bara and his father. This hadith is from Esh'as, Adiyy, Yazid b. It was also narrated from Bara and his uncle.
1415-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Zubayr (radiyallahu anh), a man from the Ansar filed a claim with Zubayr about the waterways of the Harre creek, where they watered the date palms, and the irrigation order. The water passing through this stream would first stop by Zubayr's date grove and then pass to Ansari's date grove. Once, when Zubayr was going to hold the water and water the date grove, Ansari said: "Let the water come to us", but Zubayr did not want to leave his date grove without watering and give the watering turn to his neighbor. The two sides had a judgment in the presence of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to Zubayr: "O Zubayr, water your field and then release the water towards your neighbor." He was enraged and said: “Did you favor him because he still has a son? Said. Upon this disrespectful statement, the color of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) changed and he said: "O Zubayr, water your garden and do not leave the water until it goes over the wall." says: I think the following verse was revealed about this incident: “No, no! By your Lord, they will not be truly believers until you make the Prophet (pbuh) the arbitrator in all matters in which they disagree, and then they follow your decision with complete submission without feeling any distress in their hearts.” (4 Nisa: 65) (Bukhari, Musakat: 8) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Ebî Hamza, Zühri'den, Urve b. He narrated from Zubayr and Zubayr, and in this narration, “Abdullah b. He did not say from Zubayr. Again, Abdullah b. Wahb; From Leys, Yunus, Zuhri, Urve and Abdullah b. He narrated to us a similar narration from Zubayr.
1416-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man from the Ansar freed all six of his slaves at a time close to his death, and when this situation reached the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he spoke harshly about that person, and Calling the slaves, he divided them into three and drew lots among them, freeing two of them and leaving all four as slaves. (Muslim, Eyman: 12; Abu Dâvûd, Itk: 10) hadith Imran b. It has also been narrated in different ways from Husayn. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Huraira on this subject. Imran b. The hadith of Husayn is hasan sound and the practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith. Malik, Shafii, Ahmad and Ishaq are among them and they are of the opinion of drawing lots on this and similar issues. and other scholars do not agree with the view of drawing lots, and they say: “One-third of each slave is considered to be freed, and these slaves are worked for a certain period of time to pay the value of the other two-thirds and they pay the price themselves.” The name of Ebul Mühelleb was Abdurrahman b. He is Amr al-Curmi and not Abu Qilab. Muawiya b. Also called amr. The name of Abu Kilaba al-Curmi was Abdullah b. It is Zayd.
1417-) Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever buys a person who is forbidden to marry or a blood relative with whom he cannot marry, as a slave, that slave and concubine are free.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Itk: 7; İbn Mâce, Itk: 5) Only Hammad b. We know from the narration of Salama. Some people related this hadith from Qatada, Hasan and Omar with similar expressions.
1418-) Ukbe b. Mukrem al-Ammi al-Basri and others quoted Muhammad b. From Bekir el Bürsanî, Hammad b. Narrated from Salama, Qatada, Asim al-Ahvel, Hasan and Samura, they said: "Whoever buys a person who is forbidden to marry or a blood relative with whom he cannot marry, as a slave, that slave and concubine are free." In this hadith, Asim al-Ahvel'i Muhammad b. Apart from Bekir Hammad b. We do not know anyone who mentions Salama, some scholars do their practices according to this hadith. It was also narrated from Umar that "Whoever buys a person whose marriage is forbidden or a blood relative with whom he cannot marry, as a slave, that slave and concubine is free" is narrated from Damre b. Rabia, from Sevrî, Abdullah b. Narrated by Dinar from Ibn Umar. Damre was not followed in this hadith, and this hadith is wrong by the hadithists.
1419-) Rafi' b. Hadic (radiyallahu anh) narrated that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever cultivates the land of a person without permission from his owner, he has nothing of his crops, only his expenses are paid to him." (Abu Dâvûd, Magic: 32; İbn Mâce, Rühûn: 13) This hadith is hasan garib. That this hadith is from the narration of Abu Ishaq, Sharik b. We know from the narration of Abdullah. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith, and Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1420-) Muhammed b. I asked Ismail about this hadith, he said it is a hasan hadith. He said that I know only from Sharik's narration that this hadith is from the narration of Abu Ishaq, and continued as follows: Ma'qil b. Malik al Basrî, Ukbe b. from Ata through al Esam, Rafi' b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from hadith.
1421-) Numân b. According to what is reported from Bashir (radiyallahu anh), his father donated a slave to one of his sons, and he came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to be a witness to this affair. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Did you give the same to your other children as you gave to him?" When my father said no, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Then take the slave back from him." (Bukhari, Grant: 10; Muslim, Hibat: 3) This hadith is hasan sahih. Numân b. It has been narrated from Bashir in different ways, and the practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. They want equal treatment among children. Some even say: "Equality should be observed even in kissing." In some scholars, men and women should be treated equally in donations and gifts. Sûfyan es Sevrî also thinks like this. Some scholars say that equality between children is achieved by giving the man the share of two women. As in the inheritance division, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion.
1422-) According to the narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "If a neighbor is put up for sale on his neighbor's house and land, he has more rights than others." (Abu Dawud, Ijara: 73) Hadith was also narrated from Sharid, Abu Rafi' and Anas on this subject. The hadith of Samura is hasan authentic. Isa b. Yunus, Said b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abu Aruba, Qatada and Anas. Again, this hadith was narrated from Said, Qatada, Hasen and Samura. The narration, which is authentic in the eyes of scholars, is the narration of Hasan from Samura. Qatade's narration from Enes only to Îsâ b. We know from the narration of Yunus. b. Abdurrahman et Taifî's, Amr b. The narration on this subject from Sharid and his father is hasan. Abraham b. Meysere, on the other hand, Amr b. Sharid narrates from Abu Rafi. I heard from Muhammad, he was saying that in my opinion, both hadiths are correct.
1423-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The neighbor has the right to buy the property of his neighbor when it is for sale. It is expected by other buyers that that neighbor will use his right to Şüf'a. Even if they are close enough to use the same road, and even if they are far away in the neighbor and lost, he has the most right.” (Abu Dawud, Magic: 73; Ibn Majah, Şuf'a: 2) This hadith is strange. This hadith was narrated by Abdulmalik b. We do not know of anyone other than Abi Sufyan who narrated from Ata and Jabir. Shu'ba: Abdulmalik b. Abu Suleiman was mentioned because of this hadith. He is a reliable and reliable person according to hadith scholars. Because of the narration here, we do not know that anyone other than Shu'ba spoke about him. Vekî' transmitted this hadith through Shu'ba to Abdulmalik b. It was narrated from Abi Suleiman. It is reported from Sûfyan es-Sevri that Mubarak said: “Abdulmalik b. Abi Suleiman is a sound measure in science." According to this hadith, even if a person is not present at the time it is put up for sale, he is more entitled to the neighbor's supplication. Even if his absence is prolonged, he has the right to Shuf when he comes.
1424-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "It is valid in everything that is not divided into shif'a, there is no shuf'a when the boundaries are determined and their paths diverged." (Ibn Majah, Shuf'a: 3; Abu Dawud, Ijara: 73) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some of them have narrated this hadith as mursal through Abu Salama. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was like this. Hattab, Osman b. Affan is one of them. Some of the jurists of the law were of the same opinion, and Umar b. Abdulaziz and others are among them. The scholars of Madinah are of the same opinion. Yahya b. Said el Ensârî, Rabia b. Abi Abdurrahman, Malik b. Enes is among them. Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion, but they are of the opinion that there is a right to suffice for goods whose path and boundaries are not determined. They do not recognize the right of suffocation to neighbors who are not mixed with each other as a road and a border. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others say: "Suf'a is valid for the neighbor" and they point to the following hadith of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), which was narrated as merfu, as evidence: “The neighbor is more worthy of the one next to it.” Sevri, Ibn al-Mubarak and the people of Kufa are of this opinion.
1425-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The partner has the right to suffice and he has the right to suffice in everything." (Tirmidhi narrated it.) We know this hadith in this way only through the narration of Abu Hamza es Sukkari. Many people refer to this hadith as Abdulaziz b. Rufey' narrated from Ibn Abi Mulayka as a mursal, which is more authentic.
1426-) Hennad, Abu Bakr b. Through Ayyaş, Abdulaziz b. He narrated a similar hadith in terms of meaning from Ibn Abi Mulayka from Rüfay, and in this narration, "From Ibn Abbas" was not used. Likewise, many people like Abdulaziz b. He narrated from Rüfeyh in a similar way, and in these narrations it is not said "from Ibn Abbas". This narration is more authentic than the narration of Abu Hamza. Abu Hamza is a reliable person, it is possible that the mistake made is from someone other than Abu Hamza.
1427-) Hennad, Abdulaziz b. From Rüfey, from Ibn Abi Mülayke, from Abu Bakr b. He narrated a similar hadith of the drunkard to us. Most of the men say that suf'a only happens in houses and lands, and they do not agree with the view that suf'a is in everything. Some scholars are of the opinion that "there is reason in everything" and the first view is more correct.
1428-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Khalid al-Cuheni (radiyallahu anh), a man asked about the condition of the found goods. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Declare for a year, get to know your features, then use it, and if the owner comes, pay it to him immediately. Man: O Messenger of Allah, what is the condition of the lost sheep? When he said that, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Take it, it is either your believing brother or your wolf. The man said: “O Messenger of Allah, what will happen to the lost camels? She asked. Zayd b. Khalid said: "Thereupon, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) got angry, his cheeks or face reddened, and he said: What's wrong with him? He has strong feet and a water bag with him until he finds his owner…” (Bukhari, Lukata: 2; Ibn Mace, Lukata: 1) b. The hadith of Khalid is hasan sahih. It has been narrated from him in different ways. Zayd b. The hadith of Yazid from Khalid, the freedman of Munbais, is also hasan sahih. It has been narrated from him in different ways.
1429-) Zayd b. According to the narration, Khalid al-Cuheni (radiyallahu anh) was asked about the verdict of the lost property, and he said: Otherwise, identify and learn all of its features and use it, and if the owner comes, you pay.” (Bukhari, Lukata: 2; Ibn Mace, Lukata: 1) Ubay b. From Ka'b, Abdullah b. From Amr, Carûd b. Mualla, İyaz b. From Hımar and Cerir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah. Zayd b. The hadith of Khalid is hasan garib in this form. Ahmed b. Hanbal says: This hadith is the most authentic hadith reported on this subject. It has been reported in different ways. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith. They have introduced the lost property for a period of one year and allowed that it can be used if the owner is not found. Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others say: "He introduces it for a year and if the owner comes, he will give it to him, otherwise he will give charity." Sûfyan es Sevrî, Abdullah b. This is how the blessed Kufalis think; They say, "If the person who finds the lost property is rich, he cannot benefit from that property". He says he can benefit even if he is rich. Because Ubay b. Ka'b found a bag of gold containing one hundred dinars in the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered him to introduce it, announce it and make use of it. Ubey b. Ka'b was one of the rich companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), who had a lot of wealth. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered him to introduce and announce that property, and to eat it if the owner was not found. If the lost property had been halal only for those who were allowed to receive alms, Ali b. It would not be halal for Abi Talib. Because Ali b. Abi Talib found a dinar in the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), introduced it, and could not find its owner, so he ordered him to eat it. It was not halal for Ali to eat alms. Some scholars have said that if the lost item is a little thing, it can benefit from it without being announced. Others say, “If it is less than one dinar, it will be advertised for a week.” Ishaq b. This is Abraham's view.
1430-) Suveyd b. According to the narration from Gafele (radiyallahu anh), he said: “Zayd b. Suhan and Salman b. I went out with Rabia and found a whip (in the narration of Ibn Numayr, he said, I found a whip and bought it). Then Ubay b. When I came to Ka'b, I asked the verdict of this and explained the situation to him. He said: You did well. At the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), I found a bag containing one hundred dinars. I brought it to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). I declared it for a year, but the owner did not come out, then I brought it back to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Promote and announce for one more year. After declaring it for another year, I brought it to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) again. Announce one more year and promote it. Then, determine all kinds of features and if the owner comes, give the bag to him, if not, take advantage of it” or he said. (Bukhari, Lukata: 10; Muslim, Lukata: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1431-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: A piece of land fell to Umar's share in Khaybar. Omar: O Messenger of Allah! I have never owned anything better than the one I received in Khaybar. Now what will you order me about this property? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If you wish, distribute the originals of the foundation as charity. Upon this, Omar dedicated it as follows: The original, that is, that piece of land will not be sold, donated or inherited. Umar gave the income of this land to the poor, their relatives, the way of freeing the slaves and captives, the travelers and guests as alms. There is no sin for a trustee to eat from the income of that foundation under normal conditions and to feed it to a friend. Avn says: Muhammad b. When I reminded Sirin of this hadith, he said, "By not being a collector." Ibn 'Awn continues: Another person read this hadith on a piece of red leather as "The trustee can eat, provided that he does not accumulate wealth". Ismail says: I used that hadith from Ubeydullah b. I read next to Ömer; it was there "provided that we do not accumulate capital". (Bukhari, Shurut: 19; Muslim, Vasiyyet: 4) This hadith is hasan sahih. The practice of scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith. We do not know of any disagreement among previous scholars regarding this foundation as to whether it is permissible to make a foundation of land or anything else.
1432-) It was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When a person dies, the record of deeds is closed, but the record of these three people is not closed, the rewards continue to be written; Charity is a concubine (foundation), knowledge that is benefited from, and a good righteous child who prays for him.” (Muslim, Vesaya: 3; Abu Dâvûd, Vesaya: 14) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1433-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “An animal's injury is wasted, there is no penalty, no diet is required, no penalty is required for a person falling into a dug well, for accidents that may occur in mines. There is no penalty, there is one-fifth Zakat in the treasures extracted from the underground.” (Bukhari, Zakat: 67; Muslim, Hudud: 11)
1434-) Kutayba from Ibn Shihab through Lays, Said b. He narrated a similar hadith from Musayyeb, Abu Salama and Abu Huraira. In this regard, Câbir, Amr b. Avn b. From Avf el Müzeni and Ubade b. A hadith has also been narrated from Samit. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. El Ensari narrated from Ma'n to Malik b. He told us what Enes said. The Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) statement: "An animal's injury is wasted" means that there is no penalty, no diet is required. Some scholars have interpreted the phrase "an animal's injury is useless" as follows: "The owner does not have to pay anything for the injury and all kinds of damage caused by the animal that escaped from the owner's hand." There is no penalty for accidents that may occur in mines. Again, if a person digs a water well for the benefit of everyone, even if a person falls into that well, there is no need to pay a diet to the owner of the well. As for the phrase "There is one-fifth Zakat in the treasury": Rikaz are gold and silver things buried in the ground in the past: Whoever finds such a thing, one fifth of it. He pays the government as a tax, the rest is his own.
1435-) Said b. According to the narration from Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever cultivates a derelict, uncultivated land and revives it by planting it, that land is his. There is no right for a cruel vein.” (Abu Dâvûd, Harâc: 35) Vein: It is a person who takes something that does not belong to him in order to usurp it, or a person who plants a tree on someone else's land to prove that the land belongs to him. This hadith is hasan garib. Some people like Hisham b. They narrated from Urwa and his father as mursal. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them and say: “He can cultivate dead soil, plant it, and revive it without the permission of the administrator.” Some scholars say: "He cannot cultivate and plant dead soil without the permission of the administrator." The first view is more correct. In this regard, Jabir Amr b. Hadith was also narrated from Avf el Muzeni, Kathir's grandfather and Samura. Musa Muhammed b. Al-Musenna narrated to us that he said: I asked Ebul Walid et Tayalisi the meaning of the phrase "There is no right for a cruel vein," and he said: "A person who usurps something that does not belong to him by force." I said: “Plant a tree on someone else's land? I said, "Yes," he said.
1436-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Whoever regenerates a derelict, uncultivated land by cultivating and planting it, that piece of land belongs to him." (Abu Dawud, Haraj: 35) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1437-) Ebyâz b. According to a narration from Hammal (radiy-Allâhu anh), he came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and asked that the salt mines containing the salt mine be given to him, but the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forgave him. When Ebyaz turned and left, one of those present; “Do you know what you donated to him? You donated an uninterrupted flow of water,” he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took Tuzla back from him. This time, Ebyaz asked him to donate land from the places where there are erak trees, but the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "There may be distant and dead lands that old camels cannot reach."
1438-) Qutayba acknowledged this hadith and said, "Yes, it is true." (Ibn Majah, Pledge: 17; Abu Dâvûd, Haraç: 34) ebî Amr, Muhammed b. Yahya b. He has conveyed a similar hadith to us with this deed from Kays al-Maaribi. Mearib: It is a region in Yemen. A hadith has also been narrated from Vâil and Esma bint ebî Bakr on this subject. The hadith of Ebyâz is strange. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith and they are of the opinion that the head of state can donate land.
1439-) Alkame b. According to the narration from Vâil's father, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had given him a piece of land in Hadremawt.
1440-) Mahmud said: Nadr transferred this hadith to us from Shu'ba and added the following: "He sent Muawiyah with him to give that land to him." (Abu Dawud, Haraç: 36) This hadith is hasan.
1441-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a Muslim plants a tree or a crop and a person eats a bird or an animal from it, those who eat it will be charity for him.” (Bukhari, Müzarea: 1; Muslim, Müsakat: 2) In this regard, Abu Ayyub, Jabir, Umm Mübeşşir and Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Khalid. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic.
1442-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He made a cultivating agreement with the people of Khaybar, half of the crops grown in the land of Khaybar belong to them.” (Bukhari, Müzarea: 5; Muslim, Müsakat: 1) On this subject, Anas, İbn Abbas, Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit and Jabir. This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith; Some scholars preferred that the seed be from the land owner. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars, on the other hand, do not welcome the agricultural partnership in the form of one-third or one-fourth, and they see no harm in musakat in one-third or one-fourth of dates. It is to take care of the vines and dates of a vineyard and date palm, provided that some of its fruit is taken. Malik b. Enes and Shafii hold this view. Some scholars say that no form of agricultural partnership is permissible, and that the land can be rented for gold and silver.
1443-) Rafi' b. According to a hadith (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated, he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade us from any useful work. When one of us owned land, we would lease it to someone in exchange for some of the crop or for money; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) should not do that. (Bukhari, Muzarea: 5; Muslim, Musakat: 2)
1444-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He did not forbid agriculture partnership, but ordered partners to be tolerant towards each other.” (Bukhari, Muzarea: 5; Muslim, Musaka: 3) This hadith is hasan authentic. There is confusion in Rafi's hadith. This hadith is related to Rafi' b. It was narrated from Hadiç's uncles, and again through him, one of his uncles, Zuhayr b. It was also reported from Rafi. Thus, this hadith was narrated from Rafi in different ways. In this regard, Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit and Jabir.
1445-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) decreed that the diet of a person who was killed by mistake would consist of these camels: “Twenty female camels that were two years old and twenty male camels that were two years old. , twenty female camels that have turned three years old, twenty female camels that have turned five years old, and twenty female camels that have turned four years old. (All of them make up a hundred camels)” (Ibn Majah: Diet: 6; Abu Dâvûd, Diyat: 16)
1446-) Abdullah b. From Amr, Ebû Hisham er Rifâî, İbn Ebî Zaide and Ebî Halid el Ahmer and Haccac b. A similar hadith was reported from Ertae. We know the hadith of Ibn Mas'ud as merfu only in this form. Abdullah b. It was also narrated by taking mewkuf from Mas'ud. The practice of some of the scholars is according to this hadith, and Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. they have collectively decided that the diet can be taken in three years and by paying one third of each year. They are of the opinion that the diet of killing by mistake = burdening the heirs with wisdom. Some scholars say that Âkile is one of the male relatives of the murderer from the father's side. Malik and Shafi'i are among them. Scholars, on the other hand, impose the diet on men, except for women and children who are relatives from the father's side. They say that every man should pay a quarter dinar. Some scholars say it pays half a dinar. In this case, if the job of paying the diet is over, if not, the surrounding tribes are also asked to make their payments.
1447-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person kills a believer knowingly; It is left to the parents of the murdered person. The diet consists of thirty female camels at the age of four, thirty female camels at the age of five, and forty pregnant camels. If there is an amount that they agree on, that amount belongs to them. (Ebû Dâvûd, Diyât: 16; İbn Mâce, Diyât: 6) Abdullah b. The hadith of Amr is hasan garib.
1448-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) determined the monetary value of the diet as twelve thousand dirhams.” (Abu Dawud, Diyat: 16; Ibn Majah, Diyat: 6)
1449-) Said b. Abdurrahman el Mahzûmî, Sûfyan b. Through Uyeyna Amr b. He narrated a similar hadith from Dinar and Ikrima, but he did not say "from Ibn Abbas" in this narration. Many words have been said about the narration of Ibn Uyeyna. Muhammed b. We do not know of anyone other than Muslim who narrated this hadith from Ibn Abbas. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith, and Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars are of the opinion that the diet is ten thousand dirhams. Sûfyan es Sevrî and the people of Küfe are among them. He says: I know that the diet is only from camels and that is the price of a hundred camels or its price.
1450-) Amr b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Shuayb (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "There is a diet of five camels for each injury in wounds that are deep enough to reach the bone." (Ibn Majah, Diyat: 20; Abu Dâvûd, Diyat: 18) This hadith is hasan. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are of the opinion that five camels should be given for injuries.
1451-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The diet of the fingers and toes is equal. The diet for each finger is ten camels.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Diyât: 18; İbn Mâce, Diyat: 18) In this regard, Abu Musa and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan sahih in this form. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. Shafii, Ahmed, Ishaq and Sufyan es Sevri are among them.
1452-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “This and that, that is, the little finger and the thumb are equal in diet.” (Ibn Majah, Diyat: 19; Abu Dâvûd, Diyat: 18) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1453-) According to what is reported from Abus Sefer (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A man from Quraysh broke the tooth of a man from Ansar. When Muawiya backed the person who broke the tooth, the man who broke the tooth said to Muawiya: "O commander of the believers, this man broke my tooth." Muawiya said: "We will make you satisfied". When the other party tried to oppress Muawiya by oppressing Muawiya, he did not consent to this and said, "Take care of yourself with your opponent." Abud Darda, who was sitting next to Muawiya, said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) as follows: The word that my heart has memorized that my two ears have heard is as follows: elevates his rank and erases his sin.” The man from the Ansar: "Did you hear this from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) yourself?" he asked, Abu'd Darda said: "My ears listened and my heart understood." Ansarli said: "Then I'm donating that tooth to him." Muawiya said: I will definitely reward you and ordered that some goods be given to him. (Ibn Majah, Diyât: 35) This hadith is strange and we know it only in this way. We have no information that Abus Sefer listened to hadiths from Abu'd Darda. The name of Abus Sefer; Said b. It is also said that he is Ahmed Ibn Muhammad es Sevri.
1454-) According to what is narrated from Enes (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “A concubine with silver jewelry on it went out of the city. A Jew grabbed her and crushed her head with a stone and took her jewelry. In her last moments, the concubine was reached and she was brought to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked: Who wanted to kill you? So the concubine said no, pointing with her head, then? said. When he finally said the name of the Jew, he nodded yes, and the Jew was caught and confessed to his crime. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered that the head of that Jew was crushed between two stones in the same way.” (Muslim, Kasama: 3; Nesai, Kasama: 11) This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars, on the other hand, are of the opinion that "the short cut can only be made with a sword".
1455-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The destruction of the world in the sight of Allah is better than killing a Muslim person." (Nesai, Tahrîmüddem: 5)
1456-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. Ya'la b. From Ata, from his father, Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Amr without merfu. This narration is more authentic than the narration of Ibn Abi Adiyy. Sa'd Ibn Abbas, Abu Said, Abu Huraira, Ukbe b. Hadith was also narrated from Amir, Ibn Mas'ud and Burayda. Abdullah b. In this way, Ibn Abi Adiyy narrated the hadith of Amr from Shu'ba, Ya'la b. From Ata, from his father Abdullah b. Narrated by Amr. Muhammed b. Cafer and others from Shu'ba, Ya'la b. They narrated from Ata without merfu. Likewise, Sûfyan es Sevrî, Ya'la b. It was narrated from Ata, which is more authentic than the abrogated one.
1457-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The first case to be seen among the slaves on the Day of Judgment is blood feuds." (Bukhari, Rikaak: 48; Muslim, Kasame: 8) The hadith of Abdullah is hasan. Many people have narrated this hadith from A'mash as merfu. Some of them also narrated from Â'meş without being merfu.
1458-) Again, according to what is reported from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The first case to be decided between the servants is blood feuds.” (Bukhari, Rikaak: 48; Muslim, Kasame: 8)
1459-) According to the narration from Ebul Hakam al-Baceli, he said: I heard it from Abu Said al-Khudri and Abu Hurayra; They reminded us that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If the people of the heavens and the earth unite to shed the blood of a Muslim, Allah will throw them all facedown into Hell." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Abdurrahman b. He is Nu'min and is from Kufa.
1460-) Suraka b. Malik b. According to a narration from Ju'shum (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I was with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). (Reported by Tirmidhi.) We know that this hadith is from Suraka's narration only in this way. The evidence of this hadith is not very strong because this hadith is from Ismail b. Abbas, Müsenna b. He narrated from Sabbah. Musenna b. Sabbah is a person who is seen as weak in the hadith. Again, this hadith was transmitted to Haccac b. From Ertae, Amr b. It is also narrated from Shuayb, his father and grandfather. Again, this hadith is Amr b. It is also narrated from Shuayb as mursal. There is confusion in this hadith. The application of scholars is according to this hadith; “If a father kills his son, he will not be killed in return, and if a father accuses his son of adultery, the penalty of qazf is not applied.”
1461-) Umar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Retaliation is not inflicted on a father because he killed his child.” (Ibn Majah, Diyat: 22)
1462-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Penalties are not applied in mosques! A father cannot be killed for killing his child.” (Ibn Mâce, Diyat: 22) As this hadith is merfu, only İsmail b. We know from the narration of Muslim. Ismail b. Muslim; He is from Mecca. Some hadith scholars talked about this person in terms of his memory.
1463-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The blood of a person who accepts that I am the servant and messenger of Allah and accepts that I am the servant and messenger of Allah, who does not know anyone to be obeyed except Allah, can only have blood. It becomes halal with one of these three things; 1- A married person who commits adultery, 2- Soul against soul, 3- A person who leaves his religion and leaves the Islamic community.” (Abu Dâvûd, Hudud: 1) A hadith was also narrated from Osman, Aisha and Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Mas'ud is hasan authentic.
1464-) According to a narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Beware, whoever kills someone who is under the protection of Allah and His Messenger, he will break his promise to Allah and will smell the fragrance of Paradise." can't even smell it. However, the scent of Paradise can be heard from a distance of seventy years.” (Ibn Majah, Diyât: 32) A hadith was also reported from Abu Bakr on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. This hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways.
1465-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave their parents a diet that would be paid to a Muslim after two people belonging to the Amir tribe were killed by mistake. Because these two people received assurance from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We only know this way. The name of Abu Sa'd al Bakkal was Said b. He is Merzuban.
1466-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When Allah bestowed the conquest on His Prophet, he gave a speech praising Allah and said: Whoever has a relative killed, that person should choose one of the two views. is in the state. He will either forgive or ask for retaliation.” (Bukhari, Diyat: 7; Ibn Mâce, Diyat: 3) In this regard, Vâil b. Hucr, Enes, Abu Sureyh, Huveylid b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr.
1467-) According to the narration from Abu Shurayh al-Ka'bî (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is not people who make Mecca holy! God has made it sacred. Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should never shed blood or cut down any of his trees. If someone tries to give permission to kill a person by saying to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) that killing is permissible on the day of conquest, beware, he has made it permissible for me at a certain time, not for everyone else. You people of the tribe of Huzaa! You killed this person from the tribe of Huzayl, I will pay his diet, after that, if a relative is killed, his family is free between two things. They either want retaliation by preferring the murderer to be killed, or they take a diet.” (Muslim, Hajj, 82; Nesai, Menasik: 110) This hadith is hasan authentic. Shayban likewise Yahya b. Abi Kathir narrated the like. It was narrated that Shurayh al-Huzai quoted the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) as follows: "If a relative of a person is killed, that person either asks for the murderer's short cut or pardons or takes a diet." Some scholars are of this opinion, and Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1468-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man was killed during the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and the murderer was handed over to the deceased's guardian. The murderer said: "O Messenger of Allah, I did not want to kill him." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to the deceased's guardian: "Be careful if he is telling the truth and if you kill him despite this, you will go to Hell!" The man released the murderer. The murderer's hands were tied behind his back, so he dragged his strap and left, and this man was called the strapped person from now on. (Ebû Dâvûd, Diyât: 3; İbn Mâce, Diyat: 34) This hadith is hasan authentic. “Nis'a” = means rope and tether.
1469-) According to the narration from the father of Burayda (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would send a commander to an army, he would advise him as follows: He said: In the name of Allah, fight in the way of Allah, fight the disbelievers who cover up the truths from Allah! your war; but do not be treacherous, do not cut off the eyes and noses of the people you killed, do not kill children…” This hadith is long. (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 140) In this regard, Abdullah b. From Mes'ud, Şeddâd b. From Evs, Imran b. From Husayn, Enes, Samura, Muğîre, Ya'la b. Hadith was also narrated from Murra and Abu Ayyub. The hadith of Burayda is hasan sound, and scholars do not tolerate gouging out the eyes and cutting off the ears and noses of the enemy soldiers during the war.
1470-) Şeddâd b. According to what is narrated from Aws (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Allah has ordered to behave well in everything, even when you kill it, kill it in the least painful way. sharpen it and do not cause much pain to the animal.” (Nesai, Dehaya: 22; Muslim, Sayd: 11) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ebûl Eş'as es San'ani's name is Şurahbil b. It is Udde.
1471-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He ordered that a man who caused the abortion of a child in the womb be given a male slave or concubine as punishment.” The man who was given this punishment said: “A diet for a child who does not eat, does not drink, does not make a sound? We will give, it is not necessary to give anything in such things” Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “This man speaks like a poet. Yes, it is necessary to give gurre, that is, a slave and concubine in Jenin.” (Nesâî, Kasame: 38; Muslim, Kasame: 11) Hamel İbn Malik b. Nabiğa and Muğîre b. A hadith was also reported from Shu'ba. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith, and some say: They said: Gurrah: It is a male slave or concubine or five hundred dirhams. Some scholars have said that it is a horse or a mule.
1472-) Muğîre b. It was narrated from Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh). two women were in a man's marriage (kuma). One of them threw stones or tent poles at the other, causing the fetus in its womb to fall. For this reason, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) decreed that a gurra, that is, a slave or concubine, be given to the aborted fetus, and the payment was given to the male relatives of that woman. (Bukhari, Diyat: 27; Muslim, Kasame: 17)
1473-) Hasan says: Zayd b. Hubab transmitted us a similar hadith from Mansur through Sufyan. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1474-) According to the narration from Abu Juhayfa (radiyallahu anh), he said: I said to Ali, O leader of the believers: Can you tell us about the things that are not in the book of Allah but that you know among the things you have noted? He said: What I know for the sake of the one who creates living things and plants by spreading crops and all kinds of seeds: It consists of Allah's making a person understanding in the Qur'an and what is in the written paper. What do I have on the written paper? I asked. He said: In it are the provisions of the diet, the liberation of the captive, and not killing a believer as retaliation for the disbeliever.” (Bukhari, Diyat: 23) In this regard, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Ali is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Malik b. Enes, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them and say: "A believer cannot be killed in exchange for an unbeliever." Some scholars say: “If an unbeliever who is in the custody of the Islamic state or a Muslim is killed; A Muslim who kills him will be killed in return for the person killed.”
1475-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A Muslim cannot be killed by retaliation for an unbeliever."
1476-) According to a narration in the same document, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The diet of an unbeliever is half of the diet of a Muslim." (Nesâî, Kasame: 36; İbn Mâce, Diyat: 13) Abdullah b. The hadith of Amr is hasan. Scholars have put forward different views on the diet of Jews and Christians. Some scholars on the diet of Jews and Christians, Umar b. Based on the hadith reported from Abdulaziz, they say: "The diet of a Jew and a Christian is half of the diet of a Muslim." Ahmed b. Hanbal is one of them. Umar b. It is reported that Khattab said: “The diet of Jews and Christians is four thousand dirhams, and that of Magi is eight hundred dirhams.” b. Enes, Shafii and Ishaq are of this opinion. Some scholars say that the diet of Jews and Christians is like the diet of Muslims. Sûfyan es Sevrî and the people of Küfe are among them.
1477-) According to the narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever kills his slave, kill him, and whoever cuts off his slave's organs, we will cut off his organs." (Abu Dâvûd, Diyât: 7; Nesai, Kasame: 9) This hadith is hasan garib. The practice of some of the scholars of nature is according to this hadith, and İbrahim Nehai is one of them. Some scholars say: There is no retaliation between the free and the slave in the matter of life and organs. Hasan Basri, Ata b. Ebi Rebah, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Some scholars also say: "If a person kills his own slave, retaliation is not done, but if he kills someone else's slave, retaliation is done." Sûfyan es Sevrî and the people of Küfe are among them.
1478-) Said b. According to what is reported from Müseyyeb (radiy-Allâhu anh), Omar used to say: “The diet is on relatives from the father's side, the wife does not inherit anything from her husband's diet.” Dahhak b. Sûfyan al-Kılâbî informed Umar that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) had written to him that he should make the wife of Ushaim ed Dababî heir because of her husband's diet. (Ibn Majah, Diyât: 12; Abu Dâvûd, Feraiz: 18) This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith.
1479-) According to the narration from Qatada (radiyallahu anh), he said: Zurare b. Evfâ's, Imrân b. I heard him quote Husayn as follows: A man bit a man's hand, and when the man withdrew his hand, the other man's two teeth were knocked out. They appealed to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) to rule, and he said: "Does any of you bite his brother like a strong male camel bites? There is no diet for your falling teeth.” Thereupon, Allah revealed the verse: “…a tooth for a tooth, and injuries have a similar response to that wound…”. (5 Maide: 45) (Bukhari, Diyat: 17; Nesai, Kasame: 18) Ya'la b. Umayya and his brother Salama b. A hadith was also narrated from Umayya. Imran b. The hadith of Husayn is hasan authentic.
1480-) Behz b. According to the narration from Hakim's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father and grandfather: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) imprisoned a man on an accusation, then released him when his guilt was not proven.” (Abu Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 29; Nesai, Kat-us Sarik: 2) A hadith was also reported from Abu Hurayra on this subject. The hadith narrated by Behz from his father and grandfather is hasan. Ismail b. Ibrahim reported this hadith from Behz b. He narrated it in a longer way than Hakim.
1481-) Said b. Zayd b. Amr b. According to the narration from Nufayl (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever is killed while defending his property, he is like a martyr. And whoever steals an inch of land, on the Day of Judgment, that earth will be put around his neck like a ring in seven layers.” (Bukhari, Mazâlim: 13; Muslim, Musâkat: 30) b. Black el Marvezî added to this event. Ma'mer says: Since he reached me from Zuhri, he did not hear anything from him. The redundancy in this hadith is: "He who is killed for the sake of his property is a martyr." Likewise, Shuayb b. Abi Hamza has this hadith from Zuhri, Talha b. Abdullah, Abdurrahman b. Amr b. From Sahl and Said b. It was narrated from Zayd. Again, Sûfyan b. Uyeyne, from Zühri, Talha b. Abdullah, Said b. Zayd, and in this narration Sufyan b. Abdurrahman b. Amr b. He did not mention Sahl. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1482-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever is killed in defense of his property, he is a martyr.” (Bukhari, Mazâlim: 13; Muslim, Musakat: 30) Ali, Said b. Hadith was also narrated from Zayd, Abu Huraira, Ibn Omar, Ibn Abbas and Jabir. Abdullah b. The hadith of Amr is hasan and has been narrated in different ways. Some scholars: “They have allowed a person to fight and defend for his life and property.” Ibn al-Mubarak says: A person fights for his property even if it is two dirhams.
1483-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If someone's property is wanted to be taken unjustly and he is shot and killed, he is a martyr." (Bukhari, Mazâlim: 13; Muslim, Musakat: 30) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1484-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Abdurrahman b. From Sufyan through Mahdi, Abdullah b. Hasen, Ibrahim b. Muhammed b. Talha, Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Amr.
1485-) Said b. Zayd (radiyallahu anh) said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "Whoever is killed in defense of his property is a martyr, whoever is killed for the sake of his religion is a martyr, whoever is killed in defense of his blood, but whose child is killed in self-defense, is killed. He is a martyr." (Bukhari, Mazâlim: 33) This hadith is hasan authentic. Many people had the same hadith as Ibrahim b. They narrated similarly from Sa'd. Abraham b. Sa'd b. Abdurrahman b. He is the son of Avf ez-Zuhri.
1486-) Rafi' b. According to a hadith (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Abdullah b. Sahl b. Zayd and Muhayyisa b. Mas'ud b. Zayd went on a journey, and when they arrived in Khyber they separated from each other for their own business. After a while Muhayyisa, Abdullah b. He found Sahl murdered. Someone had killed him, buried him. Then Huveyyisa b. Mes'ud, Abdurrahman b. Sahl and Muhayyisa came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Although Abdurahman was the youngest of these people, he acted to speak before his friends. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Be respectful to the elders". Thereupon, Abdurrahman remained silent and those two friends spoke, then he spoke with them where necessary. Abdullah b. They told us where Sahl was killed. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, “Do you swear fifty times to gain rights against your dead friend or murderer? He commanded. They said, "How can we take an oath when we haven't seen the murderer?" Then let the Jews save you from taking an oath with fifty oaths. Others said: How can we accept the oaths of an infidel people? Seeing this situation; The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave the diet of the killed person himself. (Muslim, Kasame: 1; Nesai, Kasame: 3)
1487-) Hasan b. Ali al Hallal; Yazid b. Through Harun Yahya b. Said from Buseyr b. From Yesâr, Sahl b. from ebî Hasme to Rafi' b. He narrated a similar hadith in terms of hadith. This hadith is hasan authentic and the application of scholars is according to this hadith regarding Kasama. Some fiqh scholars from Madinah are of the opinion that qisas can be applied because of the kasama. The people of Küfe and some scholars say: “Kasama does not require a short diet, it requires a diet”.
1488-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The pen has been lifted from three persons; from a person who sleeps until he wakes up, from a child until he becomes sane, from insane and similar people until his mental balance is restored.” (Ibn Majah, Talak: 15) A hadith was also narrated from Aisha on this subject. The hadith of Ali is hasan garib in this form. Again, this hadith was narrated from Ali in different ways. In some of these narrations, instead of the sentence “From a child until he becomes a teenager; The sentence "From a child until the mind is mature" is included. We do not know that Hasan al-Basri listened to hadiths from Ali. This hadith; Ata b. It was narrated from Saib, Abu Zabyan and Ali in a similar way. A'mash: He narrated this hadith from Abu Zabyan, Ibn Abbas and Ali as mawkuf. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. We do not know that Hasan-i Basri lived during the caliphate of Ali (radiyallahu anh) and heard hadiths from him. Abu Zabyan's name is Husayn b. He is Jundup.
1489-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Try to abolish punishments from Muslims as much as you can, and if you find a way out, clear the way and avoid punishment. It is much better for the authority in the ruling authority to err in forgiveness than to err on punishment.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
1490-) Yezîd b. This hadith from Ziyâd is given to us by Muhammad b. He narrated it as mawkuf like Rabia's narration. In this regard, Abu Huraira and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. Only Muhammad b. Rebia's, Yazid b. We know it from Ziyâd ed Dımışkî, with the narration of Urve and Aisha. Vekî' said the same hadith, Yazid b. He narrated from Ziyâd in a similar way, without merfu. Waki's narration is more authentic. Many of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) narrated the same way. Yazid b. Ziyâd ed Dımışki is a weak person in hadith. Yazid b. Ziyâd ed Dımışki is a weak person in hadith. Yezi b. Abî Ziyâd al-Kûfi, on the other hand, is stronger and older than him.
1491-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever relieves a believer from his worldly troubles, Allah will relieve him of one of his troubles in the Hereafter. Whoever covers up a Muslim's fault and fault, Allah will cover his servant's fault in this world and in the hereafter, and as long as the servant helps his brother, Allah will always help that person." (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 60; İbn Mâce, Mukaddime: 17) Ukbe b. Hadith was also narrated from Amir and Ibn Umar. Thus, many narrators narrated the hadith of Abu Huraira from A'mash, Abu Salih, Abu Huraira, like the narration of Abu Avana.
1492-) Esbat b. Muhammad narrated the same hadith from A'mash, Abu Salih and Abu Huraira in a similar way. This narration is more authentic than the first narration. Ubayd b. Esbat b. Muhammad relayed this hadith to us and said: My father told me this hadith from A'mesh.
1493-) According to the narration from the father of Salim (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A Muslim is a Muslim's religious brother. He does not do injustice to him. A Muslim does not abandon a Muslim in danger either. Whoever meets a need of his Muslim brother; Allah removes one of his troubles. Whoever removes a Muslim's distress, Allah will relieve him of his distress on the Day of Judgment. Whoever covers the faults and faults of a Muslim in the world, Allah will cover his mistake and fault on the Day of Judgment and ignore it.” (Bukhari, Mazâlim: 3; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 38) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
1494-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked Maiz, the son of Malik: Is the news about you true? He commanded. Maiz said: What kind of news has been conveyed to you about me? When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "I have been informed that you committed adultery with the concubine of your family," Maiz said, "Yes," and he testified against himself four times. He was stoned to death upon the order of the Messenger of Allah. (Bukhari, Muharîbin: 6; Muslim, Hudud: 5) In this regard, Saib b. Hadith was also narrated from Yazid. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic. Shu'ba reported this hadith from Simak b. From Harb and Said b. He narrated from Jubayr as a mursal and did not say "from Ibn Abbas" in this narration.
1495-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), Maiz al-Aslemî came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said that he had committed adultery. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) turned away from him. Maiz came from the other side and said that he committed adultery again. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) turned away from him again. Maiz came from the other side and admitted that he definitely committed adultery. In his fourth confession, upon the order of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he was taken to the Hare location outside Medina and stoned. Hearing the pain of the stones, he fled with all his might. As he passed a man with a camel's jawbone in his hand, that man struck him with the camel's jawbone. They told the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about this situation and said that he had attempted to escape because of the pain caused by the stones and fear of death. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "You should have left him." (Abu Dawud, Diyad: 3; Muslim, Hudud: 5) This hadith is hasan. It has also been narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways. Likewise, this hadith is from Zuhri, Abu Salama, Jabir b. It was also narrated from Abdullah in a similar way.
1496-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), a man from the tribe of Eslem came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and confessed that he had committed adultery. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) turned away from him. The man confessed again. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) turned away again, and when he witnessed that he committed adultery against himself four times, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, “Do you have madness? he commanded. Man: He said no. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), are you married? Said. The man said yes. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered and this person was stoned in the open air prayer hall. He fled with the pain of the stones, and was caught behind him and stoned to death. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) praised that person but did not perform the funeral prayer. (Nesai, Cenaiz: 63; Abu Dâvûd, Hudûd: 23) This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith, and if he witnesses that he has committed adultery against himself four times, he will be punished. Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. Some scholars are; They say that even if he testifies once that he has committed adultery, he will be punished. Malik b. Enes and Shafii are of this opinion and the evidence they are based on; Abu Huraira and Zayd b. There is a hadith reported from Khalid: Two men applied to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and one of them said: O Messenger of Allah, my son committed adultery with this man's wife… The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “O Unays! He said go to this man's wife, and if she confesses her crime, stoning her. He didn't say if he confessed four times." (This hadith will come back in greater detail later in 1433.)
1497-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) reported that the case of a woman who stole from the Mahzum tribe concerned the Quraysh tribe and they said: Who can talk to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) about that woman? Then Usama b. They decided that no one would dare to do this except Zayd. Thereupon, Usama spoke to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do you intercede for a punishment imposed by Allah?" He got up and gave a sermon and said: The reason why those before you were destroyed was this: "If a famous person stealing, they would not punish him, and when a poor and lonely person stole, they would punish him. I swear by Allah that if Fatima, Muhammad's daughter, had stolen, I would have cut off her hand as well.” (Muslim, Hudûd: 2; Nesai, Kat-us Sarik: 6) In this regard, Mes'ud b. Acma - Mes'ud b. It is also called A'cem - hadiths were also narrated from Ibn Omar and Jabir. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic.
1498-) Umar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) applied the penalty of stoning. Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) applied the punishment of stoning, so I applied the punishment of stoning. Because I am afraid that some people will deny and fall into disbelief when they cannot find the punishment of stoning in Allah's book. (Muslim, Hudûd: 4; Abu Dâvûd, Hudûd: 23) A hadith was also narrated from Ali on this subject. The hadith of Omar is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Umar in different ways.
1499-) Umar b. According to what was reported from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Allah sent Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with the true religion and sent down a book to him. There was a verse of stoning in the book he downloaded, so he did stoning himself, and then we applied the punishment of stoning. I am scared. Pay attention, if there is evidence for a person who commits adultery even though he is married, he is pregnant or he confesses, stoning is right and must be done. (Muslim, Hudûd: 4; Abu Dâvûd, Hudûd: 23) A hadith was also narrated from Ali on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic and has been narrated from Umar in different ways.
1500-) Abu Huraira, Zayd b. According to the narration from Khalid and Shibl (radiy-Allâhu anhum), they said: While all three of these people were with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), two people arguing from each other came and one of them started his speech as follows: “O Messenger of Allah. ! For God's sake, you will judge between us by the book of God. Thereupon, another person who is more understanding than this person; He said, "Yes, judge between us according to the book of Allah, let me speak." He started his speech as follows: My son was this man's worker, then he committed adultery with his wife, and they informed me that my son's punishment was stoning. In return for this punishment, I gave a hundred sheep and a servant as ransom. Then I met people who knew this business and they said: His son must be hit with a hundred lashes, he will be exiled in a year. They said that stoning will be applied to this man's wife. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "By Allah, in whose hand is my existence, I will judge between us by the book of Allah: A hundred sheep and servants will be returned to you, and your son will be given a hundred sticks and a year of exile. Oh Unays! Go to this man's wife and if she confesses, stoning her. Uneys went to the woman and when he confessed his crime, he stoning her. (Bukhari, Muharibîn: 6; Muslim, Hudûd: 5)
1501-) Ishaq b. Mûsâ al-Ansari, from Ma'n, from Ibn Shihab, from Ubeydullah b. Abdullah, Abu Huraira, Zayd b. He narrated a similar hadith from Khalid al-Juheni in terms of meaning.
1502-) Again, Qutayba narrated to us a similar hadith of Malik in terms of meaning from Ibn Shihab through Lays. In this regard, Abu Bakr, Ubede b. Samit, Abu Huraira, Abu Said, Ibn Abbas, Jabir b. Semure, Hezzal, Bureyde, Seleme b. Muhabbik, Abu Barze and Imran b. A hadith was also narrated from Husayn. Ebû Hüreyre Zeyd b. The hadith of Khalid is hasan sound. Likewise, Malik b. Enes; Ma'mer and many others from Zürî, Ubeydullah b. Abdullah b. From Utbe, Abu Huraira and Zayd b. He narrated from Khalid.
1503-) In the same vein, they narrated from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) as follows: "If the concubine commits adultery, strike her with a hundred lashes, and if she commits adultery the fourth time, sell it and sell it, even for a worthless piece of string." b. Uyeyne; Zuhri, Ubeydullah, Abu Huraira, Zayd b. Narrating from Khalid and Shibl, he says: "We were with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)..." Uyeyna recorded both hadiths collectively from Abu Hurayra to Zayd b. He narrates from Khalid and Shibl. In this hadith narrated by Ibn Uyayna, he fell into delusion. Sûfyan b. Uyayna confused the two hadiths. The narration by Muhammad b. al Velid ez Zebidi, Yunus b. Ubeyde, Zuhri's brother's son from Zuhri, Ubeydullah, Abu Huraira and Zayd b. It is a narration from Khalid that; It begins as follows: "If the slave girl commits adultery, strike her with a hundred lashes..." From Ubeybullah, Shibl b. Halid, Abdullah b. It was narrated from Malik al-Awsi that he said: If the concubine commits adultery…” This is the narration that is accepted as authentic by hadith scholars. Shibl b. Khalid did not catch up with the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Shibl was only Abdullah b. He narrates hadith through Malik al-Awsi. That is the correct one. The narration of Ibn Uyayna is not very acceptable. From Ibn Uyeyna, Shibl b. It was reported that he said Hamid, which is a mistake. In fact, he Shibl b. He is Khalid. Likewise, Shibl b. It is called Huleyd.
1504-) Ubade b. According to the narration from Samit (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Take the punishment of adultery from me. Allah has set forth a regulation for those women who commit adultery; The penalty for a married person to commit adultery with a married person is one hundred lashes and stoned death, and for a bachelor to commit adultery with a single spouse, the penalty is to be exiled for a hundred lashes and a year.” (Muslim, Hudûd: 5; Ibn Mâce, Hudûd: 7) This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) is according to this hadith. Ali b. Ebî Tâlib, Übey b. Ka'b, Abdullah b. Mas'ud, others are among them and they say: "If a married person commits adultery, he will be shot with a hundred lashes and stoning to death." Some scholars also shared this view. Isaac is one of them. Some scholars, including Abu Bakr, Umar and others, among the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say, "When a married person commits adultery, he is stoning, and a hundred lashes are not struck." According to the hadiths mentioning the events of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), Maiz and other people, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) only ordered stoning, not one hundred lashes. The practice of some scholars is also according to this hadith, and Sûfyan es Sevrî, İbn'ül Mubarak, Shafii and Ahmed are of this opinion.
1505-) Imran b. According to what is reported from Husayn (radiyallahu anh), a woman from the tribe of Juhayna confessed to committing adultery in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said, "I am pregnant." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) called the woman's relatives and said, "Treat this woman well, and let me know when she gives birth." When the situation was reported to him, the woman's dress was tied tightly so that it would not be opened during the punishment, she was ordered to be stoning and she was strangled. Finally, he performed the funeral prayer for that woman. Thereupon, Umar said: “O Messenger of Allah! You have stoned him and then you perform the funeral prayer.” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: That woman made such a repentance that if her repentance was distributed to seventy people from Medina, it would be enough for all of them. What do you seek better than a woman's willingness to spare her life to Allah? (Muslim, Hudûd: 7; Abu Dâvûd, Hudûd: 24) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1506-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) stoning a Jewish man and a Jewish woman for the crime of adultery they committed. (Muslim, Hudûd: 6; Abu Dâvûd, Hudûd: 25) This hadith is a bit long. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1507-) According to the narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) stoning a Jewish man and a Jewish woman for the crime of adultery they committed. (Muslim, Hudûd: 6; Abu Dâvûd, Hudûd: 25) Ibn Omar, Bera, Jabir, Ibn ebi Evfa, Abdullah b. Haris b. Hadith was also narrated from Juz' and Ibn Abbas. Jabir b. The hadith of Samura is hasan garib, and the practice of the majority of scholars is according to this hadith and they say: "If Jews and Christians, called People of the Book, sue each other and take their cases to Muslim judges, the Sunnah of the Book and the rules applied to Muslims are applied between them." Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. Scholars, on the other hand, say that the people of the book are not punished in the case of adultery, and the first opinion is more correct.
1508-) According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) struck a hundred lashes against single fornicators and exiled him. Likewise, during his caliphate, Umar shot and exiled a hundred crutches.” (Abu Dawud, Hudud: 23) In this regard, Abu Hurayra, Zayd b. Halit and Ubade b. A hadith was also narrated from Samit. The Hadith of Ibn Omar is strange. Many people refer to this hadith as Abdullah b. They narrated from Idris as merfu.
1509-) Others reported the same hadith from Abdullah b. Narrating from Idris, Ubeydullah, Nafi and Ibn Omar: “Abu Bakr also stabbed and exiled. Omar also stabbed and exiled.” Likewise, Abu Said al-Asec narrated this hadith. Abdullah b. İdris also transferred it to us. Similar to this hadith, with a different narration from Ibn Idris, Ubeydullah b. It was also narrated from Omar. Likewise, Muhammad b. Narrated in Ishaq from Nafi and Ibn Omar: “Abu Bakr also stabbed and exiled him. They said, “Omar also stabbed and exiled again”; They did not say that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) stabbed and exiled him. Authentic news that he exiled him from Abu Huraira, Zayd b. Halid, Ubade b. Fixed and reached us from others. The practice of scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) is according to this hadith, and Abu Bakr, Omar, Ali, Ubay b. Ka'b, Abdullah b. Mas'ud, Abu Zer and others are among them. It has been narrated by many of the jurists of the period of the Tabi'un. es Sevri, Malik b. Enes, Abdullah b. Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are among those who adopt this view.
1510-) Ubade b. According to the narration from Samit (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We were sitting next to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)… Then the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “To not associate anything with Allah's decree and authority, not to steal, not to commit adultery. He said that you will pledge allegiance to me, that is, you will accept my political authority, and he read the verse: “…they will not attribute divinity to anything other than Allah, they will not steal, they will not commit adultery …”. (60 Mümtahine: 12) and continued as follows. Whoever among you keeps this promise, Allah will reward him. Whoever is punished for one of these crimes in this world, that punishment is atonement for himself. Whoever commits a crime and Allah covers his crime in this world, his job is up to Allah. If Allah wills, He will forgive him, if He wills, He will punish him.” (Bukhari, Hudûd: 9; Muslim, Hudûd: 10) Ali, Cerir b. Abdullah and Huzeyme b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit. Ubade b. The sâmit hadith is hasan authentic. Shafi'i says: I have not heard a better hadith on this subject that it will be expiation for the person to whom the punishment is applied! Again, Shafi'i says: It is more pleasant for me if a person who commits a sin and whose sin is covered by Allah hides his sin and repent by being alone with his Lord. It is also narrated that Abu Bakr and Umar ordered a man to cover his sin.
1511-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If one of you has a maid for adultery, she should be punished by hitting her with a stick three times according to the book of Allah, and in the fourth time with a hair rope. let him sell it, even if it is in return.” (Abu Dâvûd, Hudûd: 32; Bukhari, Muharibîn: 22) The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith, and they are of the opinion that a person can impose punishment on his slave and concubine without the authority of the state. Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion. Some scholars say that they are handed over to the state authority, and that the owner of slaves and concubines does not impose the punishment himself. The first view is more correct.
1512-) According to the narration from Abu Abdurrahman es Sulemi (radiy-Allâhu anh), Ali gave a sermon and said: “O people! Apply the punishment for the crimes they have committed to your male and female slaves, who are and are married. A concubine of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) committed adultery and he ordered me to be crucified. When I came to him to do this duty, I found him at the beginning of his postpartum period. I was afraid that if I carried out the punishment, I would kill him or die. I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and told him about the situation. you did it” he said. (Bukhari, Muharibîn: 2; Abu Dâvûd, Hudûd: 33) This hadith is hasan authentic. Süddî's name is İsmail b. Abdurrahman. Being from the lineage of Tabin, Enes b. He heard a hadith from Malik. Ali b. He also saw the son of Abi Talib, Husayn.
1513-) According to what is reported from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) struck the drinker forty times with his two shoes as a punishment.” Mis'ar says: I think this punishment was for drinking alcohol. (Ebû Dâvûd, Hudud, 35; Bukhari, Hudud: 5) Ali, Abdurrahman b. Azhar, Abu Huraira, Saib, Ibn Abbas and Ukbe b. Hadith was also narrated from Haris. The hadith of Abu Said is hasan authentic. Abus Siddik al Bâcî's name was Bekir b. It is Amr. Bekir b. It is called Kays.
1514-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), a drunken man was brought to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) struck him with a forked palm stick for forty times. This is exactly what Abu Bakr did during his caliphate. During the caliphate of Umar, he consulted with the scholars of the Companions. Abdurrahman b. After Avf said that the lightest of the Shari'a punishments is eighty lashes, Omar ordered it in this way, and the punishment for the one who drinks alcohol was eighty lashes. (Bukhari, Hudûd: 5; Muslim, Hudûd: 8) The hadith of Anas is hasan sound. The practice of some of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith, and they say, "The punishment for those who drink alcohol is eighty lashes".
1515-) According to a narration from Muawiya (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever drinks alcohol, punish him by hitting him with a stick, and if he continues to drink, kill him the fourth time.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Hudûd: 36; İbn Mâce, Hudûd: 17) In this regard, Ebû Hüreyre, Şerid, Şurahbil b. Evs, Cerir, Ebû'r Ramed el Belevi and Abdullah b. The hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Muawiya was also narrated by Thawri from Asim, Abu Salih and Muawiya. In Ibn Jureyc and Ma'mer, Süheyl b. They narrated from Abu Salih, his father, and Abu Huraira. I heard him say: The hadith narrated by Abu Salih through Muawiya is more authentic than what Abu Salih narrated from Abu Huraira. This punishment applied to the drinker was like this in the first days, but later it was abrogated. Muhammed b. Ishaq's Muhammed b. From Münkedir, from Câbir b. The narration he made from Abdullah is as follows: "Whoever drinks alcohol, get a stick as a punishment, and if he continues to drink, kill him at the fourth time." Jabir says: After this statement, a man who drank alcohol was brought to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) for the fourth time, but he punished him with a stick and did not kill him. Zührî, Kabîsa b. He narrates a similar hadith through Zueyb and says: Thus, the death penalty was abolished and it was allowed. The practice of the majority of scholars is according to this hadith, and we do not know that there was a conflict between them in the past or today. One of the proofs supporting this issue is the following hadith, which was narrated from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in different ways: The blood of a Muslim who testifies that there is no god but Allah and that I am the Messenger of Allah is lawful only if one of the following three things: “Soul against soul, adulterous married person, and one who abandons his religion.”
1516-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cut off the thief's hand at a quarter dinar and above.” (Bukhari, Hudûd: 14; Muslim, Hudûd: 1) The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. This hadith has been narrated from Amra and Aisha in various ways as merfu. Some people, on the other hand, narrated from Amre and Aisha as mawkuf.
1517-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cut off his hand because of a shield worth three dirhams." (Bukhari, Hudûd: 14; Muslim, Hudûd: 1) Sa'd, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Ibn Abbas, Abu Huraira and Ayman. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) is according to this hadith. Abu Bakr as Siddiq cut his hand for five dirhams. It is reported that Osman and Ali cut their hands for a quarter dinar. According to the narration from Abu Huraira and Abu Said: "A hand is cut off in five dirhams." The practice of some of the jurists of the Tabin period is according to this hadith, and Malik b. Enes, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishak are among them and they are of the opinion that "A quarter of a dinar or more is cut off". According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud, he said: "Cutting a hand is only due to theft worth one dinar or ten dirham." This hadith is from Qasim b. It is a mursal hadith narrated by Abdurrahman from Ibn Mas'ud. Because Qasim did not hear a hadith from Ibn Mas'ud. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith, and the people of Sufyan as-Sevri and Küfe are of the same opinion and say: "There is no cutting of hands under ten dirhams." According to what is reported from Ali, the proof of the hadith "No hand less than ten dirhams is cut off" is not absolute.
1518-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Muhayriz (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Fudale b. Is it sunnah to put the hand cut on Ubayd on the neck of the thief? I asked him, and he replied: A thief was brought to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and when his crime was proven, his hand was cut off, then the hand that was cut off according to the order was put on his neck.” (Nesai, Kat'us Sarik: 18; Abu Dâvûd, Hudûd: 22) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Umar b. Ali el Mukaddemi's Haccac b. We know it from his narration from Ertae. Abdurrahman b. He is Muhayriz's brother.
1519-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There is no punishment for beheading a person who betrays something he has bought, who loots or pickpockets.” (Nesai, Kat'us Sarik: 13; Abu Dâvûd: Hudûd: 14) This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. Muğîre b. Muslim narrated the same from Abdulaziz al-Kasmeli's brother. Ali b. al-Madini; He was from Basra and narrated a similar hadith of Ibn Jurayj from Abu'z Zubayr and Jabir.
1520-) Rafi' b. According to what is reported from Hadiç (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “There is no penalty for cutting hands, neither on fruit nor on edible products such as chewing gum.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Hudûd: 13; Nesâî, Kat'us Sarik: 11) Likewise, some hadithists Yahya b. Said, Muhammed b. Yahya b. From Habban, his uncle Vasi' b. From Habban and Rafi' b. From Hadîç, Leys b. They narrated it like the narration of Sa'd. b. Enes and many others reported this hadith from Yahya b. Said, Muhammed b. Yahya b. From Habban, Rafi' b. He narrated from Hadîç, “Vasi' b. They did not mention "Habban".
1521-) Büsr b. According to the narration from Ertae (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "There is no cutting of hands in theft in war." (Ebû Dâvûd, Hudûd: 19; Nesai, Kat'us Sarik: 16) This hadith is strange. Others from Ibn Lehia have narrated this hadith in a similar way in the same document. Busr b. Busr b. They said ebî Ertae. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith, and Evzai is one of them. They are of the opinion that the hand of the sentenced person may not be cut off in war because of the fear that he may join the ranks of the enemy. When the commander leaves the war zone and reaches the land of Islam, a penalty is applied to the person who does something that requires punishment. Evzâî is of the same opinion.
1522-) Habib b. According to the narration from Salim (radiyallahu anh), he said: “The situation of a man who had sexual intercourse with his wife's concubine Numan b. It was presented to Bashir, and he said: I will settle this case, as the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) gave it. If the woman has made that concubine lawful for her husband, I will punish her with a hundred lashes, and if she has not made it lawful, I will punish her as stoning.” (Abu Dawud, Hudûd: 27; Ibn Mâce, Hudûd: 8)
1523-) Ali b. Hucr, from Abu Bishr through Huseym, from Habib b. From Sâlim, Numân b. He narrated a similar one from Bashir. According to what he narrated from Qatada, he said: Habib b. Thus it was written for Salim. Ebû Bishr, Habib b. He did not hear any hadith from Salim. In this way, Khalid b. Hadith was also narrated from Urfuta. In this regard, Salama b. Hadith was also narrated from Muhabbit. There is confusion in the hadith of Numan's hadith. I heard from Muhammad, he said: Qatada reported this hadith from Habib b. He did not hear it from Salim and only Khalid b. He narrated from Urfuta. Scholars disagreed about the man who had sexual intercourse with his wife's concubine. They say that many of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) were stoned to death, including Ali and Ibn Umar. If Ibn Mas'ud is not punished, only Tazir (reprimanding) punishment is applied. Ahmed and Ishaq, Numan b. They practiced according to the hadith of Bashir.
1524-) Vâil b. According to a narration from Hujr's (radiyallahu anh) father, he said: A woman was raped by force during the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) removed the punishment from the woman and applied it to the person who did this by force. The narrator says: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not mention a wage = mahr that should be paid for a woman. (Ibn Majah: Hudûd: 30) This hadith is garib and its ticker is not absolute. It has been reported in other ways as well. I heard from Muhammad saying: Abdulcebbar b. Vâil b. Hucr could not catch up with his father, so he did not hear hadith from his father. He is said to have been born a few months after his father's death. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith, and they are of the opinion that "No one who is forced should be punished".
1525-) Alkame b. According to the narration from the father of Vâil al-Kindi (radiy-Allâhu anh): During the time of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), a man caught a woman who was going out of her house to pray in congregation in the mosque, and raped her by falling on her. was passing. The woman said: This is the man who made me so and so. A group of immigrants was passing by, and the woman said to me that the man did such and such. They caught the person who the woman thought raped her and brought her to her. The woman said: Yes, that's it. Thereupon, they brought the man to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). When he ordered her to be stoned to death, the person who really raped the woman stood up and said, "O Messenger of Allah, I am the one to whom this punishment will be imposed." The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to the woman, go and may Allah forgive you. He also said heartfelt words to the man who was caught innocently, and said to the real guilty man: "Kill him by stoning" and continued as follows. This man repented so much that if the people of Medina had repented in that way, it would have been expiation for the sins of all the people of Medina. (Musnad: 25980) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. Alkame b. Vâil b. Hujr heard a hadith from his father. Alkame's brother Abdulcebbar b. It is greater than Vail. Abdulcebbar b. Vail did not hear hadith from his father.
1526-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If you see someone having intercourse with an animal, kill him and the animal. To Ibn Abbas: What is the crime of the animal? He was asked, He replied, "I did not hear anything from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) on this subject, but I think that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not like eating the meat of such an animal and making use of it. This has always been the case until today.” (Abu Dawud, Hudûd: 29) hadith only Amr b. We know it from the narration of Abi Amr from Ikrima and Ibn Abbas.
1527-) According to the narration of Sûfyan es-Sevri from Asım, from Abu Ruzeyn, from Ibn Abbas, he said: "There is no need for punishment for anyone who approaches an animal with sexual intercourse." as Muhammad b. Beşşar, Abdurrahman b. He conveyed this hadith to us from Sufyan through the Mahdi. The hadith is more authentic than the first narration. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith, and Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1528-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If you see anyone doing the deed of the people of Lut, kill them both." (Abu Dâvûd, Hudûd: 28; Ibn Mâce, Hudûd: 12) A hadith was also reported from Jabir and Abu Huraira on this subject. This hadith is known in this form only with this narration of Ibn Abbas. Muhammed b. Ishaq narrated this hadith from Amr b. Narrated by Abu Amr, he says: “It is accursed who did what the people of Lot did. Killing is not mentioned here, but it is recorded that anyone who approaches an animal is also cursed.” hadith Asim b. Ömer, Süheyl b. "Kill the perpetrator and the perpetrator," quoted from Ebi Salih, his father, and Abu Huraira. There is a rumor in the hadith of this hadith. This hadith is Suhayl b. Abi Salih and Asim b. We do not know that anyone other than Omar al-Umari narrated it. Asim b. It has been noted that Umar was weak in hadith in terms of his memory. Scholars have put forward different views on the punishment of the person who commits it, and some of them are of the opinion that he should be stoned to death, whether married or single. Malik, Shafii, Ishaq are among them. Some scholars and fiqh scholars of the Tabiun period, Hasan al Basrî, İbrahim Nehai, Atâ b. Abi Rebah and others say the following: The punishment for homosexuality is like the punishment for adultery. The people of Sevri and Küfe also hold the same view.
1529-) According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he says: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The most fearful thing about my Ummah is the work of the people of Lut.” (Ibn Majah, Hudûd: 12) This hadith is hasan garib. Only in this way we know that Abdullah b. Muhammed b. Ukayl b. Abi Talib narrated from Jabir.
1530-) According to the narration from Ikrima (radiyallahu anh), Ali (radiyallahu anh) punished a community that turned from Islam by burning it. When this situation reached Ibn 'Abbas, if it were me, I would have killed them upon the word of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) because the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever changes his religion, kill him". I would not burn them with the word "Do not punish them with the punishment of Allah". When this word reached Ali's ears, he said, "Ibn Abbas told the truth." (Ebû Dâvûd, Diyât: 1; İbn Mâce, Hudûd: 2) This hadith is sound hasan. According to this hadith, the application of scholars to people who have converted from Islam. There are different opinions about the woman who converted from Islam. Some scholars say that they are killed, Evzâî, Ahmed and İshâk are among them. Others say that he is imprisoned, not killed. Others of Sufyan as-Sevri and the people of Küfe hold this view.
1531-) It was narrated from Abu Musa (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “He is not one of us who draws weapons against us” (Bukhari, Fitan: 7; Ibn Mace, Hudud: 19) Ibn Omar, Ibn'uz Zubayr, Abu Huraira and Salamah b. Hadith was narrated from Ekwa. The hadith of Abu Musa is hasan authentic.
1532-) According to a narration from Jundub (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The punishment of a magician is to be killed with a sword." (Tirmidhi narrated it.) We know this hadith as merfu only in this form. It has been said that Muslim al-Makki was weak in hadith. Ismail b. As for Muslim al Abdi al Basri, Vekî said, “He is a reliable person, he narrated hadiths from Hasan. The authentic narration is a narration from Jundup. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith, and Malik b. Enes is one of them. Shafii says: "If a magician does something that leads to unbelief, he will be killed. He is of the opinion that he will not be killed if he does something that does not lead to blasphemy.
1533-) According to what is reported from Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If you see someone who has stolen booty, burn his belongings." Salih says: Sâlim b. I went to Maslama when he was with Abdullah. Maslama found someone who betrayed the booty, and upon Sālim's transmission of this hadith, he ordered his belongings to be burned, and a Mushaf was found among his belongings. Sālim said: Sell this and distribute the price as charity. (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 85; Darimi, Siyer: 49) This hadith is strange. But this is how we know it. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith, and Evzâî, Ahmed and İshâk are among them. I asked Muhammad about this hadith and he said: This hadith was only reported by Salih b. Muhammed b. Zaide narrates that this person is Abu Waqid al-Leysi and his narrations are munkar (unwelcome). Muhammad continues: Many hadiths were narrated from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) about treason against loot and it is not ordered in these hadiths to burn that property. This hadith is garib.
1534-) It was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "If a man says to a man, O Jew, strike him with twenty lashes, and if he says to a man, 'feminized man', strike him with twenty lashes. kill it too.” (Ibn Majah, Hudud: 38) We know this hadith only in this way, Ibrahim b. It is said that Ismail was weak in hadith. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith, and they say: Whoever marries someone who is forbidden to marry on purpose, the punishment is to be killed. He says: Whoever marries his mother is killed. He says: Whoever marries someone (brother, aunt, aunt) who is forbidden to marry will be killed. This hadith was also narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in different ways. Berâ b. Âzib and Kurre b. According to the narration from Iyas al Muzeni, a man married to his father's wife and our Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered her to be killed.
1535-) Ebû Bürde b. According to a narration from Niyar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "No more than ten sticks are struck, except for any punishment from Allah's punishments." (That is, the maximum of ta'zir punishments is ten sticks.) (Bukhari, Muharibîn: 28; İbn Mâce, Hudûd: 32) This hadith is hasan garib and we know it only in this way. Scholars have put forward different views about the punishment of ta'zir (reprimanding). This is the best hadith on this subject. Ibn Lehia relates this hadith from Bukayr, and by mistake in his narration, Abdurrahman b. Jabir b. Abdullah's father says that this is a mistake. The narration by Leys b. It is the narration of Sa'd, which is the narration of Abdurrahman b. Jabir b. Abdullah through Ebû Bürde b. It is a narration from Niyâr.
1536-) Âizullah b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), I heard from Abu Sa'lebe al-Husheni: "O Messenger of Allah! I said that we are hunters (What is your advice to us?). They said: "When you release your dog on the hunt and make basmala, eat what that dog catches for you." I said: “Is that prey the same even if it dies? They said: "Yes, it is the same even if it dies." Again I said: We are shooters, what should we do? They said: Eat the prey you hunt with your bow and arrow. Again, I said: We are travelers, we stop by the countries of Christians, Jews and Magi, we can't find any containers other than the ones they use, what should we do? He said: If you cannot find any other containers, wash them with water and eat and drink in those vessels. (Bukhari, Zebaih: 10; Abu Dâvûd, Sayd: 22) Adiyy b. Hadith was also narrated from Hatim. This hadith is hasan authentic. Âizullah b. Abdullah; Abu Idris es Havlani. Abu Sa'lebe al-Husheni's name is Cürsûm. Cürsûm b. It is called Nâşib. It is called Ibn Qays.
1537-) Adiy b. According to the narration from Hatim (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I said, O Messenger of Allah: We are releasing our trained animals onto the game animals, what do you recommend to us? They said: "Eat what you catch for you." Again, O Messenger of Allah! Said. Even if the prey they caught dies? Unless another untrained dog joins them, yes you can eat it even if it dies.” I asked again: We hunt animals with harpoons or arrows, what is your advice on this matter? They said, "Eat the animal you killed with the pointed end of your arrow and harpoon, and don't eat the animal you killed by hitting it with your side." (Bukhari, Zebaih: 3; Muslim, Sayd: 1)
1538-) Muhammed b. Yahya, Muhammed b. They narrated a similar hadith from Sufyan and Mansur through Yusuf. It is also said that “Arrow and harpoon were also asked”. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1539-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "It is forbidden to eat the game animals hunted by the dogs of the Magi." (Ibn Majah: Sayd: 4) This hadith is strange and we know it only as it is. The practice of the majority of scholars is according to this hadith and they do not allow the meat of the game hunted by the Magi dog to be eaten. Kasim b. Abi Berze, Kasim b. He is Nafi' al-Makki.
1540-) Adiy b. According to a narration from Hatim (radiyallahu anh), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) about the condition of the animal that Şahin and Doğan were hunting. They said: "Eat the prey he caught for you." (Abu Dâvûd, Sayd: 22) We know this hadith only through the narration of Mucalid from Sha'bi. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. They see no harm in eating the animals hunted by Atmaca and Şahin. Mujahid says: The falcon is a type of bird used in hunting, and it has been interpreted as the birds of prey and dogs that Allah revealed in the verse “…as for the game animals you train, eat whatever they catch for you…” (5 Maida: 4). Some scholars have allowed that even if Doğan eats from the animal he hunts, he can be eaten from the meat of that game and they say the following. Training the falcon means: “It means to come when called. Some jurists do not like to eat the game that Doğan caught. The majority of jurists say, "Even if the falcon eats from the animals it catches, we eat its meat."
1541-) Adiy b. According to the narration from Hatim (radiyallahu anh), he said: O Messenger of Allah! He shoots my prey, the next day I find my arrow stuck in his body, what should I do? Said. They said: “If you don't see the scar that was killed and injured by the predator, eat it when you realize that your arrow killed that animal.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Sayd: 22; İbn Mâce, Sayd: 6) This hadith is hasan authentic. The practices of scholars are according to this hadith. Shu'ba reported this hadith by Abu Bishr and Abdulmalik b. Meysere, Said b. From Cübeyr, Adiyy b. He narrated the same from Hatim, Abu Sa'lebe al-Husheni. Both hadiths are valid. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Sa'lebe al-Husheni on this subject.
1542-) Adıy b. According to the narration from Hatim (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about hunting, he said: “When shooting your arrow, say basmala, even if you find the animal dead, eat from it, but if you find it fallen into the water, do not eat it because in this case You don't know if the water or the arrow killed him." (Ebû Dâvûd, Sayd: 22; İbn Mâce, Sayd: 6) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1543-) Adıy b. According to the narration from Hatim (radiyallahu anh), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) about the animal that the trained dog hunted, and he said: "When you release your trained dog, if you shoot it in the basmala, then eat the prey caught for you, if the trained dog eats the animal it caught." do not eat from it, for it has caught it for itself.” “O Messenger of Allah! I said, "What would happen if our dogs were mixed with other dogs?" They said: "You only recited to your own dog, but not to anyone else." Sufyan says: He did not like to eat the prey." (Abu Dâvûd, Sayd: 22; Ibn Mâce, Sayd: 6) The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith. In other words, they are of the opinion that an animal that falls into the water after being hunted or slaughtered cannot be eaten. Some scholars say about the slaughtered animal: If an animal that falls into the water after its throat is cut, dies in the water, its meat is eaten. Abdullah b. Mubarak is of this opinion. Most scholars say that if a dog eats an animal it catches, that animal is inedible. Sûfyan, Abdullah b. Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion. Some scholars from among the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others allowed that even if the dog ate from the animal it caught, it could be eaten from its meat.
1544-) Adiy b. According to the narration from Hatim (radiy-Allâhu anh), I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about the condition of the animal that was hunted with harpoon and arrow, and he said: “Eat what you hunt with the sharp end of the harpoon and the arrow, and when it comes to the animal that he killed with the side of the arrow or harpoon, he "Vakîzdir" means he was killed by a coup, don't eat from it!" (Bukhari, Zebaih: 3; Muslim, Sayd: 1)
1545-) Ibn ebi Omar, from Zekeriyya through Sufyan, from Sha'bî, from Adiyy b. He narrated a similar hadith from Hatim to us. This hadith is authentic and the practice of scholars is according to this hadith.
1546-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), a man from Jabir's tribe hunted one or two rabbits, slaughtered them with sharp and pointed stones and put them in his repertoire. When he came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and asked about the situation, he ordered him to eat them. (Tirmidhi narrated.) In this regard, Muhammad b. Safvan, Rafi' and Adiyy b. Hadith was also narrated from Hatim. Some scholars allow animals to be slaughtered with sharp stones, and they do not see any harm in eating rabbit meat. This is the opinion of the majority of scholars. Some scholars do not like to eat rabbit meat. Sha'bi's men put forward different views on the narration of this hadith. Davud b. ebî Hind, from Şa'bî, Muhammed b. While they are narrating from Safwan saying; Asim b. Ahvel, from Şa'bî, Safvân b. From Muhammad or Muhammad b. They narrate from Safwan that Muhammad b. The narration of Safwan is more authentic. Jabir al-Cufi reported the same hadith from Shabi, Jabir b. Abdullah narrated it like Qatada's narration from Sha'bi. It is probable that Sha'bi narrated from both. Muhammad says: The hadith narrated by Sha'bi from Jabir is not very acceptable.
1547-) According to the narration from Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade eating the meat of an animal that was tied up and crouched, and was targeted for shootings.” (Muslim, Sayd: 12) Irbad b. Hadith was also narrated from Sariye, Anas, Ibn Omar, Ibn Abbas, Jabir and Abu Huraira. The hadith of Abu'd Darda is strange.
1548-) Irbad b. According to the narration from the father of Sariye (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered to eat predatory animals, birds with claws, the meat of domestic donkeys, an animal that was tied as a target and killed, an animal that died without being cut from the mouth of a wolf or a predatory animal, and He forbade sexual intercourse with pregnant concubines obtained in the war until they gave birth.” (Muslim Sayd: 12; Ibn Mâce, Zebaih: 13) b. Yahya says: When Abu Âsım was asked about the meaning of "Mujaseme", he said, "It is a bird or creature standing and tied as a target and shooting at it." When asked about the meaning of "Halise", she gave the following answer: It is an animal that a person saves from the mouth of a wolf and a predator, and dies without being slaughtered.
1549-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade killing any living creature by targeting it." (Muslim, Sayd: 12; Ibn Mâce, Zebaih: 10) This hadith is authentic and the practice of scholars is according to this hadith.
1550-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Slaughter of the mother means the slaughter of the offspring.” (Ibn Majah, Zebaih: 15; Abu Dâvûd: Dahâyâ: 17) Hadiths on this subject were also narrated from Jabir, Abu Umama, Abu'd Darda and Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan authentic and has been narrated in other ways from Abu Said. This is the opinion of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Ebû'l Veddak's name is Cebr b. Nevf.
1551-) It was narrated from Abu Sa'lebe al-Husheni (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade eating the meat of any predatory animal." (Muslim, Sayd: 3; Ibn Majah, Zebaih: 14)
1552-) Said b. Abdurrahman al Mahzûmî and many others Sûfyan b. He narrated a similar one from Zuhri, Abu Idris al-Havlani, through Uyeyna. This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu İdris el Havlani's name is Aizullah b. Abdullah.
1553-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made it unlawful to eat domestic donkeys, the meat of mules, birds of prey and the meat of wild animals on the Day of Khaybar.” (Muslim, Sayd: 12; Ibn Mâce, Zebaih: 13) Abu Hurayra, Irbad b. Hadith was also narrated from Sariye and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Jabir is hasan garib.
1554-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He made it unlawful to eat the meat of all kinds of predatory animals.” (Muslim, Sayd: 3; Ibn Majah, Zebaih: 13) This hadith is hasan. This hadith is the practice of many scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and others. Abdullah b. Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1555-) According to the narration from Abu Vakid al-Leysi (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to Medina, the people of Medina were eating by cutting off the humps of camels and tails of sheep. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The pieces cut from a living animal are meyta = they are unclean and inedible like an animal that has died by itself." (Abu Dawud, Sayd: 23; Ibn Majah, Sayd: 8)
1556-) Ibrahim b. Yakub el Cevzacanî, Abdurrahman b. Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Dinar to us. This hadith is hasan garib. Only Zayd b. We know from Eslem's narration. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. The name of Ebû Vakîd el Leysi was Haris b. It is Avf.
1557-) According to the narration from the father of Abu'l Ushera (radiyallahu anh), he said: "O Messenger of Allah! Is it possible to cut it in the Islamic way only by cutting the throat and neck area? I asked. They said: "Even if you injure your thigh, it is more than strangling." Ahmed b. Menî', Yazîd b. Quoting from Harun, he says: “This work of wounding and cutting his thigh is of necessity, where it is impossible to cut his throat by falling into a well or similar narrow place.” (Ibn Maje, Zebaih: 9; Abu Dâvûd, Dahaya: 15) Rafi' b. Hadith was also narrated from hadith. This hadith is garib and only Hammad b. We know from the narration of Salama. We do not know any other narration of Abu'l Ushara from his father. There are different opinions on the name of Abu'l Ushara. Some scholars, like Usama b. They say I have a shortage. Yesâr b. It is also said to be Belz. It is also said that he was Ibn Belz. Others said that his name was Utârid in relation to his grandfather.
1558-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever kills a lice in the first hit, so much good will be rewarded for him. If he kills him in the second hit, so much and so much good deeds and good deeds are written for him, and if he kills him in the third hit, this and that much good deeds and good deeds are written for him." (Muslim, Selam: 38; Ibn Majah, Sayd: 12) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Mas'ud, Sa'd, Aisha and Umm Sharik on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
1559-) Sâlim b. Abdullah (radiyallahu anh) said, according to a narration from his father: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Kill the snakes, especially the snake with the stripe on its back and the snake with the short tail, because these two snakes; it destroys the eye and aborts the children of women.” (Muslim, Selam: 37; Bukhari, Bed-ül Halk: 15) Ibn Mas'ud, Aisha, Abu Huraira, Sahl b. A hadith was also narrated from Sa'd. This hadith is hasan authentic. The following was reported from Abu Lubabe through Ibn Umar: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade killing domesticated snakes, which live in houses, after that. Ibn Umar reported this hadith from Zayd b. He narrated from Khattab in the same way. Abdullah b. Mubarak says: The snake, which is not pleasant to kill, is thin and silver in color and walks upright without curling while walking.
1560-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Your houses have inhabitants made of snakes, narrow them three times, and if they appear to you again, kill them." (Muslim, Selam: 37; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 161) Ubeydullah b. Umar narrated this hadith from Abu Said through Sayfiy.
1561-) Malik b. Enes derives this hadith from Sayfîy, Hisham b. It was narrated from Abu's Saib, the freed slave of Zuhre, and from Abu Said, that there is a story about this hadith. El Ensari narrated from Ma'n in this way, and this narration was transmitted by Ubeydullah b. It is more authentic than the narration of Umar. Muhammed b. Aclan also narrates Sayfiy like Malik's narration.
1562-) According to the narration from Abu Layla (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When a snake appears where you are sitting, say to him: We want you to do no harm. If he bothers again after this prayer, kill him.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. We know that this hadith is from the narration of Thabit al-Bunani, as it is, only through the narration of Ibn Abi Layla.
1563-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mugaffel (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If dogs were not a lineage (ummah) by themselves like other societies, I would order them to be killed. If you're going to kill dogs, kill the black ones." (Ebû Dâvûd, Sayd: 21; İbn Mâce, Sayd: 1) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ibn Omar, Jabir, Abu Rafi' and Abu Ayyub. Abdullah b. The mugaffel hadith is hasan sahih. In some hadiths, it is narrated that the black dog is the devil. A completely black dog is a dog without a trace of whiteness. Some scholars do not tolerate the animal hunted by the black dog.
1564-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever keeps a dog other than hunting dog and sheep dog, or keeps a dog, two carats (scales) will be reduced from the rewards he earned in the past every day. ” (Bukhari, Zebaih: 6; Muslim, Musaka: 10) Abdullah b. Muğaffel, Ebû Hüreyre, Sûfyan b. A hadith was also narrated from Abu Zuhayr. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. A hadith was also narrated from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) with the addition of "crop dog (Agriculture dog)".
1565-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "He ordered all dogs to be killed except hunting dogs and sheep dogs." When it is said to Ibn Omar that Abu Huraira also called it "Agricultural dog"; Ibn Omar: He said that Abu Huraira may have remembered him because he was the owner of the crop. (Bukhari, Bed-ül Halk: 16; Muslim, Musakat: 10) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1566-) Abdullah b. Mugaffel (may Allah be pleased with him) said, "I was one of those who raised the branches of the tree and cast a shade for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) while giving a sermon under a tree. He said: If it were not for a lineage and an ummah in itself like societies, I would have ordered them to be killed, but you should kill the black ones among them. any house; If a dog breeds and keeps a dog other than sheep, agricultural and hunting dogs, one carat of good deeds will be reduced every day from their good deeds.” (Muslim, Tahara: 27; Ibn Majah, Sayd: 2) This hadith is hasan. This hadith is in other ways from Hasan to Abdullah b. It was narrated from Mugaffel.
1567-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever acquires and keeps a dog other than sheep, farm and hunting dog, one carat will be less than the good he earns every day.” (Bukhari, Bed-ül Halk: 15; Muslim, Musakat: 10) This hadith is hasan authentic. in a b. As narrated from Abi Rebah: "He allowed a person to have a dog even if he had a sheep." Ishaq b. Mansur, Haccac b. He narrated it from Ibn Jurayj and A'ta through Muhammad in this way.
1568-) Rafî' b. According to what was narrated from Hadic (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “O Messenger of Allah! We will face the enemy tomorrow, we don't even have a knife to slaughter an animal with us, what will we do? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Eat the animal that was slaughtered by using basmala with any sharp thing that can shed blood, provided that it does not have teeth or nails. Tooth; Beware of these two cutting tools that cause pain to the animal, because it is a bone and your jinn brothers have provisions, and nails are the way of cutting the Abyssinian people, who are an infidel society.” (Ibn Majah, Zebaih: 5; Muslim, Edahi: 4)
1569-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Yahya b. From Sûfyan es Sevrî through Said, from his father Abâye b. Rifaa b. Rafî' b. He narrated a similar hadith from Hadic and did not say "from Abaya's father" in his deed. This narration is more authentic. Abâye heard a hadith from his grandfather Rafi. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith and they do not consider it permissible to slaughter animals with bones and teeth.
1570-) Rafi b. According to a hadith, he said: "We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey, one of the camels ran away and they did not have a horse with them, so they could catch up with them. Meanwhile, a man fired an arrow at the camel, and because of this arrow that found its target, Allah stopped the camel there. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: These animals also have wildness like wild animals. Catch animals that do this as well.” (Muslim, Ezahi: 4; Ibn Majah, Zebaih: 9)
1571-) Mahmud b. Gaylân, from Sufyan through Vekî, from his father, from Abâye b. From Rifaa, his grandfather Rafî' b. He narrated a hadith similar to the hadith in Hadic, and did not say "From Abaya and his father" in this narration. This narration is more authentic. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. Shu'ba reported this hadith as Said b. He narrated from Mesrûk like the narration of Sufyan.
1572-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The son of Adam did not do anything more beloved to Allah than shedding blood on the day of sacrifice. That sacrifice will come on the Day of Judgment with its horns, hairs and nails. Before the blood of the victim falls to the ground, it is immediately accepted by Allah. For this reason, you will not be troubled by the sacrifices you have sacrificed, but have a good heart.” (Ibn Mâce, Edaha: 3) Imran b. Husayn and Zayd b. A hadith was also narrated from Arkam. This hadith is hasan garib. Hisham b. We know that it is from the narration of Urwa only in this way. Ebû'l Müsenna's name is Süleyman b. Yazid. Ibn Abi Fudayk narrated hadith from him. From the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); It has been narrated that he said about sacrifices: "For the one who sacrifices, a reward is given for each hair of the sacrifice." It was narrated that he said "in exchange for his horns".
1573-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sacrificed two horned, multicolored rams with his own hands. He uttered basmala, uttered takbir, and placed his foot on the right side of the rams while cutting.” (Bukhari, Edahi: 7; Muslim, Edahi: 3) The same hadith was reported from Ali, Aisha, Abu Huraira, Abu Ayyub, Jabir, Abu'd Derda, Abu Rafi', Ibn Omar, Abu Bakra on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1574-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he would personally sacrifice two animals; One for the sake of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the other for himself. (Abu Dâvûd, Dehâyâ: 1) This hadith is strange. We know this hadith only through the narration of Sharik. Some scholars allow a sacrifice to be made for the deceased. Some do not accept this. Abdullah b. Mubarak says: In my opinion, it is better for him to distribute the price as alms instead of sacrificing an animal. Even if he sacrifices himself, he should never eat his meat and give it all as charity. b. Al-Madinî and Muhammad say: Others from Sharik also narrated this hadith. I asked her what is Hasna's name, she didn't know. Muslim said her name was Hasen.
1575-) According to what was narrated from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sacrificed two rams with a black mouth, black around his eyes, and black feet.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Dahaya: 3; İbn Mâce, Edâhî: 4) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. This hadith was only reported by Hafs b. We know from the narration of Gıyas.
1576-) Berâ b. In the hadith he narrated from Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh) as a merfu, he says: “A lame animal, one-eyed animal, an animal with a known disease, weak, and weak animals are not sacrificed.” (Abu Dawud, Dahaya: 5; Ibn Majah, Edahi: 8)
1577-) Hennad; From Şu'be through İbn-ü ebî Zaide, Süleyman b. From Abdurrahman, Ubeyd b. From Feyruz, Berâ b. He narrated the similar meaning of this hadith from Azib. This hadith is hasan authentic. Only Ubayd b. We know from the narration of Fairuz from Bara that the practice of scholars is also according to this hadith.
1578-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abu Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us to pay attention to the eyes and ears when buying an animal for sacrifice, and not to sacrifice animals with cut ears, noses or broken horns.” (Abu Dawud, Dahaya: 5; Ibn Majah, Dahaya: 8)
1579-) Hasan b. Ali, Ubeydullah b. From Israel through Moses, from Abu Ishaq, from Shurayh b. Numan narrated a similar hadith from Ali and added the following: Reaction: The front of his ear is cut off. Mudabare: The back of the ear is cut off, Sharka: The ear is slit longitudinally, Harka: Animals with a round hole in the ear cannot be sacrificed. This hadith is hasan authentic. Shurayh b. Numan es Saidi is from Kufa. He is one of Ali's friends. Shurayh b. Hani, on the other hand, is from Kufa and his father Ali has a meeting with his friends. Shurayh b. Haris al Kindi, on the other hand, is Abu Umeyye al-Kazi and has a narration from Ali. All of them were friends of Ali and lived in the same period. The meaning of "Neşteşrife" in the hadith means to examine carefully.
1580-) According to the narration from Abu Kibash (radiyallahu anh), he said: I brought a full (male sheep) to Madina, things did not go well. I had the sheep in my hand. When I met Abu Hurayra, I asked him, and he said: What a nice sacrificial sacrificial sheep. Abu Kibash: Thereupon, people scrambled my full-bodied people. (Musnad: 8859) In this regard, Ibn Abbas, through his father, Hilal's daughter Umm Bilal, Jabir, Ukbe b. A hadith was also narrated from Amir and a man from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan sahih. It was also narrated from Abu Huraira as mawkuf. Osman b. Waqid; Ibn Muhammad b. Ziyd b. Abdullah b. Umar b. He is Hattab. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and his successors is according to this hadith. In other words, they say that it is permissible to sacrifice a full-fledged sheep.
1581-) Ukbe b. According to a narration from Amir (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) distributed the sacrificial animals that he was going to slaughter among his companions, and only one kid remained, which Ukba reminded the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Sacrifice him for yourself." (Abu Dawud, Dahaya: 5; Ibn Majah, Dahaya: 7) This hadith is hasan sahih. Vekî says: “Cez'a” is a breed of sheep that is over seven months old and one year old.
1582-) Ukbe b. This hadith, which was narrated from Amir in different ways, is as follows: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) distributed the qurbans he was going to slaughter himself to his Companions so that they could be slaughtered by proxy, and there was only one kid left. When I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) what would happen to him, he said, you sacrifice him too. as Muhammad b. From Beşşar, Yazid b. Quoting Harun and Abu Dawud, they said: Hisham ed Destevâi, Yahya b. from Abî Kesir, Bağçe, Abdullah b. Bedr, Ukbe b. Thus, he conveyed this hadith from Amir to us.
1583-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "We were together with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) once, and the feast of sacrifice came. We sacrificed as seven for the cattle and ten for the camel.” (Ibn Majah, Dahaya: 5) A hadith was also narrated on this subject from Abul Asad-is Sulemi's father, grandfather, and Abu Ayyub. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan garib. Only Fadl b. We know from the narration of Moses.
1584-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We slaughtered and sacrificed both the camel and the cattle for seven people, together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in Hudaybiyya. (Abu Dawud, Dahaya: 6; Ibn Majah: Dahaya: 5) This hadith is hasan sahih. The practice of scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Isaac, camel; Saying that it is enough for ten people as a sacrifice, he takes the hadith of Ibn Abbas as evidence.
1585-) According to the narration from Adiyy (radiyallahu anh), he said: Cattle; It becomes a sacrifice for seven people.” I said: "If a baby comes out of his womb?" "Cut your baby with him," he said. “What about the lame animal?” said. He said: "If he can go to the place where he will be sacrificed, he becomes a victim." I said: "What about the animal with a broken horn?" He said, "There is no harm, and we were ordered, or the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us: Carefully examine and remove the eyes and ears of the animals to be sacrificed." (Abu Dawud, Dehaya: 5; Ibn Majah, Dehaya: 8) This hadith is hasan authentic. Sufyan related this hadith to Salama b. He narrated from Küheyl.
1586-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade sacrificing an animal with broken horns and cut ears.” Qatada says: This situation Saîd b. I told Müseyyeb, he said that if the amount of hurt is half or more than half, it will not be sacrificed. (Nesai, Dahaya: 12; Abu Dâvûd, Dahaya: 5) This hadith is hasan sahih.
1587-) Umara b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: A'ta b. I heard from Yasar he was saying: I asked Abu Ayyub al-Ansari; He replied, "How were the sacrifices in the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) like this: "A person would sacrifice a single sacrifice for himself and his family, and they would eat its meat and give it to others. As a result, Muslims have come to sacrifice a few sacrifices, as you can see, that we will brag about each other.” (Ibn Majah, Dahaya: 10; Muwatta, Dahaya: 5) This hadith is hasan authentic. Umar b. Abdullah; He is from Medina. Malik b. Anas narrated hadith from him. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. Ahmad and Ishaq are among them, and they use the following hadith of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) as evidence: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sacrifices a ram and this sacrifice is for those who do not sacrifice for my Ummah." Some scholars also say: "One sheep is enough for only one person." Abdullah b. This is the view of people other than Mubarak and scholars.
1588-) Cebele b. According to the narration from Suhaym (radiyallahu anh), is it wajib to sacrifice a man to Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh)? she asked. Room; He said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and the Muslims sacrificed. When the man repeats the same question, don't you use your mind and understand what I'm saying? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and after him the Muslims sacrificed. (Ibn Majah, Dahaya: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic. The application of scholars is according to this hadith; Sacrifice is not wâjib. However, it is one of the Sunnahs of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). It is one of his favorite rituals. This is the view of Sufyan as-Swri and Ibn al-Mubarak.
1589-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stayed in Medina for ten years and used to sacrifice an animal every year. (Musnad: 4815) This hadith is hasan.
1590-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) delivered a sermon to us on the day of Eid-al-Adha and said: "None of you should sacrifice before performing the Eid prayer." Thereupon, my uncle stood up and said: “Today, people get tired of meat because of the abundance of meat. I hastened to slaughter my sacrifice to feed it to my family, household, and neighbors.” Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Sacrifice again!” He commanded. “O Messenger of Allah! I have a female milk goat with me, it's worth two sheep, can I slaughter it as a sacrifice?" The Messenger of Allah said: "Yes, it is good and sufficient for you, but it will not be enough for anyone after you." (Buhârî, Edâhî: 11; Muslim, Edâhî: 1) On this subject, Câbir, Cündüp, Enes, Uveymir b. Hadith was also narrated from Ash'ara, Ibn Omar and Abu Zayd'in il Ansari. This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of the majority of scholars is according to this hadith. In other words, a sacrifice cannot be made before the imam performs the Eid-al-Adha prayer, and some of the scholars allow the villagers to sacrifice after the dawn. Such is the view of Ibn al-Mubarak. Scholars have unanimously agreed that six months of the sheep is permissible in the sacrifice but six months of the goat is not.
1591-) According to what is reported from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said that in a year when the number of people who sacrificed animals was low, the poor people were high; They said, "None of you should eat the meat of the sacrifice he has slaughtered for more than three days." (Bukhari, Edahi: 16; Muslim, Edahi: 5) A hadith was also reported from Aisha and Enes on this subject. The hadith of Ibn 'Umar is hasan authentic, the prohibition here was in advance and it was allowed to store the meat of the sacrifice afterwards.
1592-) Süleyman b. According to the narration from the father of Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I have forbidden you not to eat the meat of the sacrifice for more than three days, so that those who sacrifice and those who do not sacrifice may be equal in eating meat. Since the number of them has increased, eat and keep as much as you want.” (Bukhari, Edahi: 16; Muslim, Edahi: 5) Hadiths on this subject were also narrated from Ibn Mas'ud, Aisha, Nubeysha, Abu Said, Qatada, Ibn-un Numan, Enes and Umm Salama. The hadith of Burayda is hasan sound and the practice of scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith.
1593-) Abis b. According to a narration from Rabia' (radiyallahu anh), he said to Aisha (radiyallahu anha), mother of believers: "Did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbid eating the meat of the sacrifice for more than three days? I asked. He said: “No, but he brought such a restriction because he wanted to feed the people who did not sacrifice because there were few people who sacrificed. For today, we keep the trotters of animals and eat them after ten days.” (Bukhari, Edahi: 16; Muslim, Edahi: 5) This hadith is hasan sahih. This hadith was also narrated from Aisha, the mother of the believers, in other ways.
1594-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "There is no sacrifice like the sacrifices of Faraa and Atire." Feraa: When the camel's first calf was born, it was slaughtered for idols. (Bukhari, Akika: 3-4; Muslim, Edahi: 6) In this regard, Nübeyşe, Mıhnef b. Hadith was also narrated from Sulaym, Abu'l Ushera and his father. This hadith is hasan authentic. Atîre: It is a sacrifice sacrificed in honor of the month of Rajab, the first of the haram months. The haram months are Rajab, Zilqada, Dhul-Hijjah and Muharram. The months of Hajj are Shawwal, Dhul-Qada and the first ten days of Dhul-Hijjah. It was also reported from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and others about the months of hajj.
1595-) Yusuf b. It was narrated from Mahek (radiyallahu anh). Yusuf b. Mahek and his friends went to Abdurrahman's daughter Hafsa and asked about the Akka sacrifice. Hafsa informed them that Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) told her: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered them to slaughter two sheep at the birth of a boy and a single sheep at the birth of a girl.” (Bukhari, Akika: 2; Ibn Mâce, Zebaih: 1) On this subject, Ali, Umm Kurz, Burayde, Samure, Abu Huraira, Abdullah b. Amr, Enes, Salman b. Hadith was also narrated from Amir and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic. Hafsa is the daughter of Abu Bakr.
1596-) Ubeydullah b. According to the narration from the father of Abu Rafi' (radiyallahu anh), he said: "When Ali's son Hasan was born from Fatima, I saw that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the adhan in his ear like the adhan for prayer." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 106) This hadith is hasan authentic. The narration of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) slaughtering a sheep for a boy and a sheep for two girls was also narrated in different ways. It is also reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sacrificed a single sheep for his grandson, Hasan. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith.
1597-) Salman b. According to the narration from Amir ed Dabbi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “After the birth of a boy, there is an aqiqah, sacrifice aqiqa on behalf of that boy and remove all kinds of oppression from the child.” (Bukhari, Akika: 2; Nesai, Akika: 2)
1598-) Hasan b. A'yen, from Ibn Uyeyna through Abdurrezzak, Asım b. Sulaym b. Ahvel, Hafsa bint Sirin, Rebab, Salman b. He informed us about a similar hadith from Amir. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1599-) Umm Kurz (radiyallahu anh) reported that she had asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about the truth, and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied: "Two sheep for a boy and one sheep for a girl. It doesn't matter if the sheep are male or female." (Nesai, Akika: 4; Abu Dâvûd, Dahaya: 20)
1600-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The best sacrifices are rams, and the best shrouds are the ones that are long and wide enough to cover their whole body." (Ibn Majah, Dahaya: 4) This hadith is strange. Ufeyr b. It has been noted that Ma'dan was weak in hadith.
1601-) Mıhnef b. According to a narration from Sulaym (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While I was on foundation in Arafat, I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: O Muslims, one sacrifice and one atire must be sacrificed every year for every family that can afford it. Do you know what atire is? It is the sacrifice that must be sacrificed in the month of Rajab. (Abu Dâvûd, Dahaya: 20; Nesai, Fera and Atîre: 1) This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only through the narration of Ibn 'Awn.
1602-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sacrificed a sheep for the birth of Hasan and said: Shave the head of the child, Fatima, and give charity as much as its weight. Fatima says: I weighed the hair, its weight was a little less than a dirham or a dirham. (Muvatta, Akika: 1) This hadith is hasan garib and its stock is not mutasil because; Ebû Cafer Muhammed b. Ali b. Huseyn, Ali b. Abi Talib did not reach him.
1603-) According to the narration from the father of Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) delivered a sermon, came down from the pulpit, brought two rams and slaughtered them.” (Nesai, Dahaya: 14; İbn Mâce, Dahaya: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1604-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I performed the Eid-al-Adha prayer with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in the prayer hall, when he finished his sermon, a ram was brought down from the pulpit, he cut it with his own hand and said: Bismillah Allahu Akbar, this sacrifice is from me and my ummah. for those who do not sacrifice.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Dahaya: 3; Nesai, Dahaya: 30) This hadith is strange in its form. The practice of scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith. In other words, one should say "Bismillah Allahu Akbar" while sacrificing. Ibn al-Mubarak is of this opinion. b. Abdullah b. It is said that Hantab did not hear any hadith from Jabir.
1605-) According to the narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Every child born is like a hostage in exchange for the aqiqa sacrifice to be slaughtered. On the seventh day of his birth, this sacrifice is sacrificed, his name is given, his head is shaved. (Ebû Dâvûd, Dahaya: 21; Nesâî, Akika: 5) b. Ali el Hallal, Yazid b. Through Harun, Said b. From Abu Arube, from Qatada, from Hasan, from Samura b. They narrated similar hadiths from Jundub. This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith, and they consider it recommended to sacrifice an aqiqa sacrifice on the seventh day of birth. They say that what is permissible for qurban is permissible in Akika.
1606-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A person who is going to sacrifice should not cut anything from the hair and nails on his body after seeing the Dhul-Hijjah crescent.” (Abu Dawud, Dahaya: 2; Ibn Majah, Dahaya: 11) This hadith is hasan authentic. Among the narrators, Umar b. The truth of Muslim Amr b. He is Muslim. From Muhammad b. Amr b. Alkame and many people have narrated hadith. This hadith is from Said b. It has been narrated from Musayyeb and Abu Salama in a similar way in different ways. This is the practice of some scholars. Said b. Müseyyeb is of the same opinion. Ahmed and Ishaq are of the same opinion. Some scholars have allowed shaving and nail clipping. Shafii is one of them and he brings the following hadith of Aisha as evidence. It is as follows: "The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) sent a sacrificial animal from Medina, but he would not abstain from the things that the person in ihram avoided."
1608-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) reported that she said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There is no prohibition for committing sins; that is, there is no fulfillment of such a prophecy. Its kaffarah is just like the kaffarah of an oath.” (Bukhari, Eymân ve'n-Nüzür: 28; İbn Mâce, Keffa: 16) On this subject, İbn Ömer, Câbir Imran b. A hadith was also narrated from Husayn. This narration is not authentic because Zuhri did not hear this hadith from Abu Salama. I heard from Muhammad, he says: This hadith is among them Musa b. Ukbe received from Zuhri, Süleyman b. From Erkam, Yahya b. It has been narrated from Abî Kathir, Abu Salama, Aisha; This is the real story.
1609-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There is no making a vow to commit a sin, that is, there is no fulfillment of such a vow. Its kaffarah is just like the kaffarah of an oath. (Bukhari, Ayman ve'n-Nuzûr: 28; İbn Mâce, Keffa: 16) This hadith is strange. This narration is stronger than the narration of Abu Safwan from Yunus. Abu Safwan was from Mecca and his name was Abdullah b. Said b. Abdulmalik b. It is Mervan. Humaydi, one of the leading hadithists, and many others narrated hadiths from him. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others said, "A vow cannot be made in the way of rebellion against Allah, and the expiation of such a thing is like the expiation of an oath." Ahmad and Ishaq are of the same opinion, and they accept the hadith that Zuhri also narrated from Abu Salama and Aisha as evidence. Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others said: "A vow cannot be made in the way of rebellion against Allah, and there is no expiation for it." Malik and Shafii also hold this view.
1610-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever dedicates to obeying Allah, let him fulfill his vow, and whoever dedicates to disobeying Allah should not rebel against Allah.” (Ibn Mâce, Keffa: 16; Nesâî, Eymân ve'n-Nüzûr: 28)
1611-) Hasan b. Ali el Hallal, Abdullah b. Through Nümeyr, Ubeydullah b. Umar, Talha b. From Abdulmalik el Eyli, Kasim b. They narrated a similar hadith from Muhammad and Aisha. This hadith is hasan authentic, and Yahya b. ebî Kesîr, Kâsım b. narrated from Muhammad. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith. Malik and Shafi'i are of this opinion and say: If he does not rebel against Allah, there is no need for an oath kaffarah. It is different if the vow is in rebellion against Allah.
1612-) Fixed b. According to the narration from Dahhak (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A servant does not have to dedicate something that a Muslim cannot achieve, that is; What is impossible is not dedicated.” (Ibn Mâce, Keffa: 16; Muslim, Nüzür: 3) Abdullah b. Amr and Imran b. A hadith was also narrated from Husayn. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1613-) Ukbe b. According to a narration from Amir (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The expiation of an oath is necessary for those who make a vow without mentioning his name." (Abu Dawud, Eyman: 25) This hadith is hasan sahih.
1614-) Abdurrahman b. According to a narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "O Abdurrahman! Don't ask for management, if you take on such a job even though you want to, you will be left alone with heavy responsibilities and alone. If the administration is given to you unwillingly, you will be helped in this business and you will not be alone. If you swear on one thing and find something else better than it, do it and pay the expiation for your oath.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Haraç: 2; Nesâî, Eyman: 14) Ali, Câbir, Adiyy b. Hatîm, Ebû'd Derda, Enes, Aisha, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Abu Huraira, Umm Salama and Abu Musa. Abdurrahman b. The hadith of Samura is hasan authentic.
1615-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever takes an oath not to do or to do something and then finds it better to break his oath, let him pay kaffarah instead of his oath and do what he has sworn. ” (Muslim, Eyman: 3; Nesai, Eyman: 14) A hadith was also narrated from Umm Salama on this subject. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith. It is permissible to pay kaffarah before breaking an oath. Malik, Shafii, Ahmad and Ishaq are of this opinion. Some scholars say the following: They say that it is more appropriate to pay kaffarah after breaking an oath. Sufyan as-Tevri says: It is more pleasant for me to pay kaffarah after breaking an oath. If he pays kaffarah before breaking his oath, that is also sufficient.
1616-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever takes an oath and says insha'Allah, if he wants to do that thing, he will not break his oath." (Abu Dâvûd: Eyman: 9; Nesai, Eyman: 18) A hadith was also reported from Abu Hurayra on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan. Ubeydullah b. Umar and others have narrated this hadith from Ibn Umar through Nafi'. Likewise, it has been narrated from Salim and Ibn Omar as mawkuf. We do not know anyone other than Ayyub es Sahtiyani who narrates this hadith with merfu. Ismail b. Ibrahim says: Ayyub used to narrate this hadith sometimes as merfu and sometimes as mawkuf. The practice of scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith, and if the exception, that is, inshallah, is close to the oath he made, he will not be deemed to have broken his oath. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Evzâî, Malik b. Enes, Abdullah b. Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion.
1617-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever takes an oath and says 'God willing' after his oath, will not be deemed to have broken his oath even if he does it." (Muslim, Eyman: 5; Ibn Mâce, Keffarat: 6) Muhammed b. When I asked Ismail about this hadith, he said: There is a mistake in the narration of this hadith. Abdurrazak erred in this hadith and shortened it from the following hadith narrated by Ma'mar from Ibn Tawus, his father, and Abu Huraira. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I swear by Allah, I will go around my seventy wives tonight, and each of them will give birth to a boy," said Sulaiman, son of David, and got together with women one by one. But none of the women gave birth, only one woman gave birth to half a child. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said that if Solomon had said insha'Allah, it would have been as he had said. He narrated this hadith from Ma'mar, Ibn Tawus and his father at length, and said "seventy women". This hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira in a different way, which begins as follows: "I swear by Allah, Suleiman, son of David, that I will be walking around seventy women tonight..."
1618-) Salim's father, Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh): "When Omar said on behalf of my father for my father's sake, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) heard this saying of him and said: Allah forbids you from swearing on behalf of your ancestors. After that, Omar, I never took an oath on behalf of my father, neither by my own words nor by someone else. I didn't take that word into my mouth." (Muslim, Eyman 1; Ibn Mâce, Keffa: 2) Sabit b. Dahhak, Ibn Abbas, Abu Huraira, Kuteyle and Abdurrahman b. A hadith was also narrated from Samura. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. Abu Ubayd says: I did not convey the meaning of the word "Vela Âsiran" in the hadith from someone else, that is, I did not include it in my language even if it was someone else's word.
1619-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): While Umar was in a caravan and was taking an oath on behalf of his father, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) reached him and said: “Allah forbids you from swearing on behalf of your ancestors. From now on, anyone who will take an oath should either swear by Allah or remain silent.” (Muslim, Eyman: 1; Ibn Majah, Kaffarah: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1620-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Ubayda (radiyallahu anh), when Ibn Umar heard a man say, "I swear by the Ka'ba no," he said: "One cannot swear by anyone but Allah. I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: Whoever takes an oath by other than Allah becomes a disbeliever or a polytheist.” (Muslim, Eyman: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Eyman: 4) This hadith is hasan. This hadith has been interpreted by some scholars as follows: "He becomes a disbeliever or a polytheist." The word was uttered to aggravate the verdict. The hadith of Ibn Umar is proof of this. Because, in that hadith, he said: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) heard that Omar took an oath for my father, saying on behalf of my father, Allah forbade you from such oaths." Likewise, the hadith narrated by Abu Huraira: "Whoever says the right of lat and uzza in his oath should immediately say la ilaha illallah" can be an evidence for this. This hadith is similar to the hadith "Riyah is shirk" narrated from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Some of the scholars interpreted the word “Vela yüşrik” in their (18 Kahf: 110th verse) as “not showing off”.
1621-) It was narrated from Enes (radiyallahu anh). He said: A woman dedicated to walking to the Ka'ba. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about the situation of this man, and he said: "Allah does not need that woman to go to the Ka'ba on foot. You command him to ride a thousand and go to the Ka'ba just like that." (Ebû Dâvûd, Eyman, 19; Muslim, Nüzür: 4) In this regard, Ebû Hüreyre, Ukbe b. Hadith was also narrated from Amir and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Anas is hasan sahih in this form. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith and they say: "If a woman dedicates to walking, she should ride a thousand and sacrifice a sheep."
1622-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) met an old man who was being taken away with his two sons on an armchair, what is wrong with him? She asked. They said: Committed to pilgrimage on foot; Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Allah does not need this person to torture himself. Anas: The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) ordered him to ride a thousand. (Abu Dawud, Eyman: 19; Muslim, Nüzür: 4)
1623-) Muhammed b. Müsenna, from Humayd through Ibn Abi Adiyy, from Enes; He narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) saw a person and conveyed a similar hadith. This hadith is authentic.
1624-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: does not change anything from fate; He who is stingy will have his wealth taken away from his hand.” (Muslim, Nüzür: 2; Ibn Mâce, Keffa: 15) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith of Abu Hurayra is hasan sound and the practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith. They do not welcome Nezr. Abdullah b. Blessed; He says the following about the unpleasantness of obedience in both serving Allah and disobeying Allah: If a person makes a warning about worshiping Allah and fulfills it, he will gain rewards in this regard, even though it is not pleasant to say.
1625-) It was narrated from Omar (radiyallahu anh). “O Messenger of Allah! said. In the period of ignorance, I had ordered one day to do Itikaf in the mosque, what should I do? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Fulfill your duty. (Muslim, Eyman: 7; Abu Dâvûd, Eyman: 25) Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Omar is hasan authentic. Some scholars apply according to this hadith and say: "If a Muslim person has anything from the period of ignorance on him that can serve as obedience and worship to Allah, he should immediately fulfill it." Some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and others say that there is no i'tikaf without fasting. Some other scholars, on the other hand, say that a person who denies i'tikaf does not need to fast unless he also prohibits fasting, and they use the hadith of Omar above as evidence. It is as follows: During the period of ignorance, Omar had forbidden to engage in Itikaf one night. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered him to fulfill his command, and he did not order him to fast. Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion.
1626-) Sâlim b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh)'s father, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) often used the following oath: "I swear by the one who changed their hearts from state to state, no." (Ebû Dâvûd, Eyman: 9; İbn Mâce, Kaffare: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1627-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Whoever frees a believing slave, one organ from that slave in exchange for every organ of that slave or even one of his organs. In exchange for that slave's genital organ, he saves that person's genital organ from the fire.” (Bukhari, Itk: 1; Muslim, Itk: 5) Aisha, Amr b. Abese, Ibn Abbas, Vasile b. Eska, Ebû Umâme, Ukbe b. Âmir and Ka'b b. A hadith was also narrated from Murra. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan sahih garib in this way. Hadd's name: Yazid b. Abdullah b. Usama b. He is had and a reliable person from Medina. From Malik b. Anas and many scholars narrated hadith.
1628-) Suveyd b. According to the narration from Mukarrin al-Muzeni (radiyallahu anh), he said: "We were seven brothers and we only had one servant. When one of my brothers slapped him, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us to set him free." (Muslim, Ayman: 8; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 123) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. Many people refer to this hadith as Husayn b. He narrated from Abdurrahman. Some narrators say in this hadith, "He slapped the concubine's face".
1629-) Constant b. According to a narration from Dahhak (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever falsely swears by a religion other than the religion of Islam and his nation, he is like the owner of the religion he professes.” (Bukhari, Eyman: 7; Ibn Mâce, Keffa: 3) This hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars have expressed different views on this issue. Some say: If a person takes an oath by a religion and system other than Islam, that is, if he becomes a Jew or a Christian or does what he would do, he has committed a major sin and there is no need for atonement for such a thing. This is the view of the people of Medina. Malik b. Anas and Abu Ubayd are of the same opinion. Some scholars from the time of the Tabi'un and others from the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say that in such a case, an oath must be made for that person. Ahmed and Ishaq are of this opinion.
1630-) Ukbe b. According to the narration from Amir (radiyallahu anh), he said: “O Messenger of Allah! I said: My sister has forbidden to go to the Ka'ba barefoot and barefoot. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Allah will not reward your sister for her wrongdoing. Let him ride a thousand, cover his head and fast for three days”. (Muslim, Nüzür: 4; Abu Dâvûd, Eyman: 19) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. This hadith is hasan and the application of scholars is according to this hadith. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1631-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever takes an oath and says in the name of lat and uzza in his oath should immediately say Lailahe illallah. Whoever says let's gamble, give alms immediately." (Muslim, Ayman: 2 Abu Dâvûd, Eyman: 3) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ebûl Muğre is from Hmıs and he is Havlani. His name is Abdulkuddûs b. It is Haccac.
1632-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), Sa'd b. When Ubade asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) for a fatwa about a minister whose mother was on him and died before he could pay; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "You fulfill that debt instead of him." (Muslim, Nazr: 1; Ibn Majah, Keffa: 19) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1633-) According to a narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh) and other companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If any Muslim person frees a Muslim slave, that slave is that person. causes salvation from fire. Each organ of the slave saves one of his organs from the fire. If any Muslim person frees two Muslim female slaves, those two women will cause the liberator to be saved from the fire. Each of their organs saves a part of that person from the fire. If any Muslim woman liberates a Muslim female slave, she will be saved from the fire. Every part of that concubine saves every part of her from the fire.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. This hadith shows that freeing the male slave is more valuable than freeing the concubine. As described in the hadith, this hadith is authentic in all its forms.
1634-) It was narrated from Abu'l Bahterî (radiy-Allâhu anh). One of the Islamic armies led by Salman-i Farisi besieged one of the Iranian fortresses. Soldiers said to Salman: O Abu Abdullah, will we not attack them? they said. He said, let me invite them to Islam, as I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). If you become a Muslim, you will have the same rights and the same responsibilities as us. If you insist on staying on your religion, pay us the jizya with your necks bowed, and we will leave you to live under our rule… Salman; He went on to speak to them in Persian: You are not praiseworthy in any way. If you do not accept all of our offers, we will fight you like every other society… They said: We do not pay jizya and we will fight you. Then the soldiers said to Salman: Let's not attack anymore? they said. Salman said no. After inviting the besieged people for three days, he ordered the soldiers to attack. Then we attacked and finally conquered the castle. (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 82) Burayde, Numan b. Mukarrin also narrated hadiths from Ibn Umar and Ibn Abbas. only Ata b. We know with the narration of Saib. I heard from Muhammad, he was saying: Ebul Bahterî did not reach Salman because he did not reach Ali; because Selman passed away before Ali. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith, and they envisaged inviting the unbelievers to Islam before the war. Ishaq b. This is the view of Abraham and he says: "If the invitation is made before the war, it will be good and it will increase the majesty of the Islamic soldiers." Some scholars say, "There is no need for an invitation today." Ahmed says: I do not know that today there is a person who does not know about Islam and should be invited. Shafi'i says: A war cannot be started without inviting the enemy to Islam. When the enemy armies do not allow this and rush to war, the invitation is considered to have reached them.
1635-) According to the narration from the father of Ibn Isam al-Muzeni (radiy-Allâhu anh), who was talking to the Prophet, he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would send an army and a raider unit, he would say to them: If you see a mosque and hear the call to prayer, do not kill anyone from the people of that region.” (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 91) The hadith of Ibn Uyeyna is strange.
1636-) According to what is reported from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went to Khaybar for war and arrived there at night. If he arrived at a community at night, he would not raid there but wait for morning to come. In the morning, the Jews left their castles with baskets and agricultural implements. Seeing the Islamic army in front of them, I swear by Muhammad with his strong and sufficient army! They called Muhammad, whose army consisted of five divisions. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Allahu akbar, Khaybar will definitely fall into our hands. If we, the soldiers of Islam, enter the land of a society, the morning of those infidels who have been warned will be very bad.” (Muslim, Jihad and Siyer: 1; Bukhari, Jihad and Siyer: 129)
1637-) It was narrated from Abu Talha (radiy-Allâhu anh): “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prevailed over a people and was victorious, he would stay in their land for three days.” (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 122) This hadith is hasan authentic. Likewise, the hadith numbered (1550) narrated by Humayd from Anas is hasan authentic. Some of his men allowed night raids and raids. Others do not tolerate night raids and raids. Ahmed and Ishaq say: They say there is no harm in raiding the enemy at night. The meaning of the word "Vafaka Muhammedün al hamîse" is "Muhammad's fully organized army".
1638-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered the dates of his rare sons to be cut and burned, and that burned date was the Buwayra date grove. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 5th verse of Surah Hashr. A hadith has also been reported. This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of some of the scholars is according to this hadith and they do not see any harm in cutting trees and demolishing castles. Some scholars do not like this. Evzâî is of this opinion and says: Abu Bakr forbade the cutting of the fruit-bearing tree and the demolition of buildings, and the Muslims after him did the same. He says: There is no harm in burning and destroying the enemy's lands as necessary and plucking the fruits. says: In some strategic situations this will perhaps be unavoidable. But it cannot be burned and destroyed in vain and pointless. And he says: If burning and destruction will intimidate and frighten the enemy, this is sunnah.
1639-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Allah has made me superior to the Prophets or my Ummah, and has made booty lawful for us.” (Muslim, Mesacid: 1) On this subject, Ali, Ebû Zerr, Abdullah b. The hadiths were also narrated from Amr, Abu Musa, and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Abu Umama is hasan sound. Seyyar is the freedman of the sons of Muaviye. Süleyman et Taymi and Abdullah b. Bahir and many others narrated hadiths from him.
1640-) Ali b. Hucr, İsmail b. A'lâ b. According to what Abdurrahman narrated from his father and Abu Hurayra, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "I was made superior and valuable to other Prophets in six matters: 1- Cevamiul Kelim = the ability to express a lot in a few words" was given to me. 2- I have always been victorious in wars because of fear of Allah in the hearts of my enemies. 3- The booty has been made lawful only for me among the nations. 4- The whole of the earth has been made a mosque and pure for me. 5- I was not sent to a single society, but to all humanity. 6- Prophethood ended with me, I am the last prophet.” (Muslim, Masajid: 5) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1641-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) allocated two shares for the horse and one share for the soldier while he was distributing the booty.” (Ibn Majah, Jihad: 36; Abu Dawud, Jihad; 143)
1642-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Abdurrahman b. Sulaym b. He narrated a similar hadith from Ahzar. In this regard, Mücemmi' b. Hadith was also narrated from the concubine, Ibn Abbas, Abu Amre and her father. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. The practice of many scholars from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others is according to this hadith. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Evzâî, Malik b. Anas, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafi'i, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them and say: “Three shares are given to the mounted warrior, two for his horse and one for himself. A single share is given to those who join the war as infantry.”
1643-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "The best number of companions in traveling is four people. The best and ideal of the detachments is the one with four hundred people.” The best of the armies is the one with four thousand people. The defeat of the army of twelve thousand is not because of the scarcity. (Abu Dâvûd, Jihad: 81; Dârimî, Siyer: 4) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was narrated by Jarir b. Many people other than Hazim did not narrate it as musnad. The same hadith is narrated from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as a mursal through Zuhri. This hadith is also related to Habban b. Ali al Anezi; From Ukayl, Zuhri, Ubeydullah b. Abdullah narrated from Ibn Abbas. Leys b. Sa'd; He also narrates this hadith from Ukayl and Zuhri as mursal.
1644-) Yazid b. According to what is reported from Hormuz (radiy-Allâhu anh), Necdet al-Haruri wrote a letter to Ibn Abbas and asked if the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) spared a place for women in the war and whether he gave them a share of the booty. Ibn Abbas replied to this letter: You write to me asking if the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had women join the war. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) used to make some of his women participate in the war. They also treated the wounded. They also took a small amount of booty. He hadn't appreciated a certain stake in them. (Muslim, Jihad: 48; Abu Dâvûd, Jihâd: 141) A hadith was also reported from Anas and Umm Atiyya on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of the majority of scholars is according to this hadith. Sûfyan as-Sevri and Shafii are of the same opinion. Some scholars say that women and children are also given shares. Evzâî is one of them. Evzâî says: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) also allocated shares for children in Khaybar. The imams and administrators of the Muslims also allocated a share for each child born in the war zone.
1645-) Evzâî continues as follows: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) reserved shares for women in Khaybar, and this has always been the practice of Muslims after that. Likewise, Ali b. Hasrem Isa b. Thus, they transferred it to us from Evzâî through Yunus. The meaning of the word "Yuhzeyne minel booty" in the hadith means that they were given something from the booty.
1646-) According to what is reported from Ab-il Lahm's freed slave, Umayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: I took part in the Khaybar expedition with my masters. They talked to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about me and told him that I was a slave. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered, and I was armed with a sword. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered me to be given some scrap items, then I showed the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) an amulet that I read and treated the mentally ill. The Chamber ordered me to discard parts of it and keep parts of it. (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 141; Muslim, Jihad: 48) hadiths were also reported from Ibn Abbas. The hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith, and the slave is not given any shares, but by giving something as a tip, the heart of the slave is taken. Sevri, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1647-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went out for the Battle of Badr, and when he arrived at the place called Harretül Veber, a man among the polytheists, known for his bravery and bravery, joined them. Then the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) asked, do you believe in Allah and His Messenger? When he said that, the man said no. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'Then come back and I will not seek help from a polytheist. (Muslim, Jihad: 51; Abu Dawud, Jihad: 142) The hadith is longer than the previous version. The hadith is hasan garib. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith and they say: "Dhimmis are not given a share of the booty, even if they fight together with the Muslims against the enemy. Some scholars say, "If they join the war with the Muslims, they can be given a share."
1648-) According to the narration from Zuhri, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) allocated a share of the booty to a group of Jews who fought with him. This is how Kutayba b. Said, Abdulvaris b. Through Said Urve b. He narrated from Thabit and Zuhri thus, this hadith is hasan garib.
1649-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in Khaybar with a group of Ash'aris. He gave us a share of the booty along with the conquerors of Khaybar.” (Bukhari, Maghazi: 40; Abu Dawud, Jihad: 140) the hadith is hasan sahih garib. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith. He says: Whoever joins the Muslims before the booty is distributed to the soldiers and their soldiers participating in the war will be given a share of the booty. He is known as Abu Burayda. He is a reliable person. Sufyan as-Sawri, Ibn Uyeyna and others narrated hadiths from him.
1650-) According to the narration from Abu Sa'lebe al-Husheni (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about the pots and pans used by the Magi, and he said, wash them cleanly, then cook food in them. He forbade eating the flesh of predators.” (Bukhari, Zebaih: 14; Abu Dâvûd, Et'ime: 32) hadith was narrated from Abu Sa'lebe in a different way. Abu Idris al Hawlani narrates from Abu Sa'lebe. Abu Idris al Hawlani did not hear a hadith from Abu Sa'lebe, but he narrated this hadith from Abu Asma and Abu Sa'lebe.
1651-) Hayve b. Narrated by Shurayh, he said: Rabia b. I heard from Yazîd ed Dımışki that he was saying: Ebû İdris el Havlani, Aizullah b. He informed us of Ubeydullah. I heard Abu Sa'labe al-Husheni say: "I came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: We are found in the countries of the people we call the People of the Book, and we eat from their pots." Thereupon, they said: If you find another vessel, do not eat from their vessels, if you cannot find another vessel, wash those vessels and eat from them. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1652-) Ubade b. According to the narration from Samit (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to send a detachment from the front, when they attacked the enemy forces and obtained a booty, one-fifth of that booty would belong to that platoon, and the remaining three-quarters would belong to that platoon. If the other soldiers were to become partners after the war, if a detachment attacked the enemy forces and gained something again, this time, after one-fifth of what they had achieved was gone, one-third of the remaining would become a partner of the platoon, and the rest of the soldiers from the whole army would become partners. This; That's how it was done for encouragement." (Ibn Mâce, Jihad: 35; Dârimî, Jihâd: 42) Ibn Abbas, Habib b. Maslama, Ma'n b. Yazid Ibn Omar and Salama b. Hadith was also narrated from Ekwa. The hadith of Ubade is hasan. This hadith was narrated from an unnamed man through Abu Sallam.
1653-) Hennad, through Abu'z Zinad, from his father, Ubeydullah b. Abdullah b. According to the narration from Ibn Abbas from Utba, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) bought the sword Zulfikar as nefal, that is, as an extra except for the distribution of the booty, on the day of Badr, which is the sword he dreamed about on the day of Uhud. The hadith is hasan garib. We know this form only through the narration of Ibn ebiz Zinad. more than one-fifth of the men put forward different views on the issue of redemption. b. Anas says: It did not reach me that the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) made commemorations in all the wars. I have learned that in some wars he made rebate, which is an application that he made before or after the booty, according to the opinion of the head of state. Mansur says: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to give one-fourth of it as nefal after he had set aside one-fifth. and this deduction would not exceed these rates. According to Ibn al-Musayyab's view, this hadith is a tenfil made out of all five. Isaac is of the same opinion.
1654-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever kills an enemy and has any evidence about it, his personal belongings will belong to that person.” (Bukhari, Homs: 18; Muslim, Jihad: 13) This hadith is a bit long.
1655-) Yahya b. He narrated a similar hadith to us with the same deed from Said. In this regard, Awf b. Malik, Khalid b. Hadith was also narrated from Walid, Enes, Samura. This hadith is hasan authentic. Muhammad is the freed slave of Abu Qatada. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is according to this hadith. Evzai, Shafii, Ahmed are among them. Scholars say that the head of state has the right to separate one-fifth from the personal belongings of the killed infidel. Tenfil says this means: “It consists of the head of state saying that whoever achieves something is his own, and whoever kills an enemy, his personal belongings belong to him, which is permissible. There is no one-fifth separation in this. says: Seleb, that is, the personal belongings of the person killed belong to the soldier who killed him. However, if there is a large amount of money and the head of state finds it appropriate to take one-fifth of it, it can be taken in this case. Umar b. As Khattab did.
1656-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the soldiers to sell their shares to each other before they were divided." (Darimi, Siyer: 36) hadiths were also reported from Abu Hurayra. This hadith is garib.
1657-) Irbad b. According to what Sariye (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported from her father: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade sexual intercourse with pregnant women obtained in war until they gave birth.” (Dârimî, Jihâd: 38) Rüfey' b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit. The hadith of Irbad is strange. The practices of scholars are according to this hadith, and Evzai says: If a person buys a pregnant concubine from a prisoner of war, it is like this according to the rule that sexual intercourse is not established with the concubine, which is reported from Omar, until she gives birth. Evzâî: As for free women, the sunnah is valid that they are ordered to wait for iddah. both of these words of Ali b. Hasrem, Isa b. They transferred it to me from Evzai through Yunus.
1658-) Kabîsa b. Hulb (radiyallahu anh) narrated from his father, that he said: "When I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about eating Christian food, he said: Do not let any doubt fall into your heart because of any food, otherwise you will be like Christians who are suspicious and go to extremes. ” (Ibn Majah, Jihad: 26; Bukhari, Zebaih: 14) This hadith is hasan.
1659-) Mahmud said: Ubeydullah b. Moses narrated a similar hadith from Israel, Simak, Kabisa and his father.
1660-) Again, Mahmud says: Vehb b. Cerîr, from Şu'be, from Simak, Mürî b. From Katari, Adiy b. They narrated a similar hadith from Hatim. The practices of the scholars are according to this hadith and it is permissible to eat the food of the people of the book.
1661-) According to a narration from Abu Ayyub (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: “Whoever separates his mother and child from the captives taken in war, Allah will separate him from his loved ones on the Day of Judgment. ” (Darimi, Siyer: 39) A hadith was also narrated from Ali on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib. According to this hadith, the practice of scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others said that it is not nice to distinguish between the mother, the child, the child from the father, and siblings among the captives captured during the war.
1662-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: Jibril came to him and said: "Let them, that is, your Companions, about the prisoners of Badr, on the condition that they either be killed or killed as many as them next year. Let them choose to take a ransom." The Companions said: "We prefer to receive ransom and be killed just as much". (Tirmidhi narrated.) Ibn Mas'ud, Enes, Abu Barze, Jubayr b. Hadith was also narrated from Mut'im. This hadith is hasan garib as the narration of As-Sawri. We know that this hadith is from the narration of Thawri only through the narration of Ibn Abi Zaide. Usama is also reported from Hisham, Ibn Sirin, Ubayda and Ali in a similar way. Avn; It is narrated from Ibn Sirin, Ubayda, and Ali as mursal. Dâvûd el Haferî's name is Ömer b. It is Sa'd.
1663-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) released one of the polytheists in exchange for two of the Muslims. (Darimi, Siyer: 28) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Kilaba's uncle is Abu'l Mühelleb. His name is Abdurrahman b. It is Amr. Muawiya b. It is also said that he is Amr. The name of Abu Kilaba was Abdullah b. Zayd al-Jammy. According to this hadith, the practice of the majority of scholars from the Companions and successors of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) is according to this hadith, and the head of state has the right to release whomever he wishes from the captives, to kill whomever he wishes, and to release whomever he wishes against ransom. They say. Some scholars prefer being killed to ransom. says: It is among the information that has reached us that the 4th verse of the chapter of Qital (Muhammad) was abrogated with the 191st verse of the chapter of al-Baqara and its provision was abolished. Similarly, Hennad narrated hadiths to us from Awzai through Ibn al-Mubarak. b. Mansur says: To Ahmed: Do you think it is more pleasant to kill the person who was taken prisoner or to be released with ransom? I asked. He replied: "There is nothing wrong with that if he can afford to ransom, and there is nothing wrong with being killed." Isaac says: I like it when captives are put to the sword, but I also like to do what is necessary to attract the attention of many people if it becomes a well-known person.
1664-) According to what Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh) reported: "A woman was found killed in one of the battles of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw this as ugly and forbade killing women and children." (Dârimî, Siyer: 25; Bukhari, Jihad: 146) Burayde, Rebah = Rebah b. Also called er Rabi. Aswad b. Seri' Ibn Abbas and Sa'b b. Hadith was also narrated from Cessamah. This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and others is suitable for this hadith. In other words, they do not tolerate the killing of children and women. Sûfyan es Sevrî and Shafii are among them. Some scholars, on the other hand, allowed to raid the enemy at night and meanwhile to kill women and children. This is the view of Ahmed and Ishaq; They allowed the raid at night.
1665-) Sa'b b. According to what was narrated from Cessâme (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I said: O Messenger of Allah. Our horses trampled some of the polytheists' women and children! In the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); They are a part of their father.” They commanded. (Muslim, Jihad and Siyer: 9; Abu Dawud, Jihad, 111) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1666-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent us with some soldiers to fight and if you find something from Quraysh or the like, burn them in the fire.” At the same time, he said: I ordered that we burn so-and-so in fire, but only Allah punishes with fire, if you catch them, kill them. (Bukhari, Jihad: 148; Dârimi, Siyer: 24) Ibn Abbas, Hamza b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr and Eslemi. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. The opinion of the scholars is also according to this hadith. Muhammed b. Ishaq attached the certificate of this hadith to Sulayman b. He added another person between Yesar and Abu Huraira. Many people narrate it like Lays's narration. But leys b. Sad's narration is more authentic and better.
1667-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever dies out of arrogance, treason against the spoils and out of debt; (if he does not fall into shirk) he will definitely enter Paradise.” (Ibn Majah, Charity: 12; Dârimî, Magic: 52) on the subject: Ebû Hüreyre and Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Khalid al-Juheni.
1668-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever's soul leaves his body without these three things, he will definitely enter Paradise (if he has not fallen into polytheism);
1669-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: It was said to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) that such and such a person had been martyred. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “No! I saw that person in Hell because of a dress he had stolen from the booty.” Then he said: “Get up! O Ali, declare three times: Only believers will enter Paradise.” (Muslim, Iyman: 48) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
1670-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would join the battle with Umm Sulaym and some women with her, they would distribute water and treat the wounded.” (Muslim, Jihad: 47; Abu Dâvûd, Jihâd: 32) A hadith was also reported from Rübeyyi' bint Muavviz on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1671-) It is narrated from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) accepted the gift Kisra sent him. Heads of state would send him gifts and he would accept them.” (Abu Dawud, Haraj: 33) hadiths were also narrated from Jabir on the subject. This hadith is hasan garib. Suveyr b. Ebî Fahîte's name is Said b. It is İlâka. Suez; He is referred to as Abu Jahm.
1672-) Iyaz b. According to the narration from Hımar (radiy-Allâhu anh): “Something or a camel was gifted to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) by a man. He said, "When he said no, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said that I was forbidden to accept the gifts of the polytheists." (Abu Dawud, Haraj: 33) This hadith is hasan authentic. The word “Zeb” mentioned above means gifts. It is narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) accepted the gifts of the polytheists. This is what it is called in this hadith. It is probable that while it was accepted at first, this prohibition was introduced later.
1673-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh): “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) received news that made him happy, he would immediately prostrate for Allah.” (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 162) This hadith is hasan garib; only in this way Bakar b. We know from the narration of Abdulaziz. Most of the scholars say that the practice is according to this hadith and that the prostration of gratitude can be done. Bekkar b. Abdulaziz b. Abî Bakra is a middle-class person in terms of hadith narration.
1674-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Even a woman can give security for her society, that is, she can give assurance to some people in things and in a way that will benefit Muslims.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also narrated from Umm Hani on the subject. This hadith is hasan garib. I asked Muhammad about this hadith. He said that this hadith is authentic. Kesîr b. Zeyd, Velid b. He heard a hadith from Rebah. Walid b. He heard a hadith from Abu Huraira in Rebah. Walid is a middle way person in terms of hadith narration.
1675-) Ebû Velid ed Dımışki, Velid b. Narrated by Muslim, from Ibn ebî Zi'b, from Saîd el Makburî, from Ukeyl b. Abi Talib, narrating from his freed slave, Abu Murra, from Umm Hani, said: “I have given protection to two of my husband's relatives. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “We have given assurance to those whom you have given assurance.” This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. They say that it is also valid for a woman to give security. and Isaac are of the same opinion and consider it valid for the woman and the slave to give security. This hadith has been narrated in different ways. Abu Murra = Akil b. He is the freed slave of Abi Talib. It is also said that Umm Hani was a freed slave, her name is; Yazid. b. According to what is reported from Khattab, it is also valid for the slave to give security. Ali b. Abi Talib and Abdullah b. According to what is reported from Amr: "Muslims take the dhimma (encumbrance) and protect the trust; even the lowest person represents this dhimma." According to scholars, the meaning of this hadith is the assurance given by one of the Muslims, and it applies to all. So it's all given.
1676-) Sulaym b. According to the narration from Amir (radiyallahu anh), he said: There was a contract between Muawiya and the Greeks. Before the expiry of this agreement, Muawiya had set out for the country of the Greeks. When the deal expired, he would raid them and fight them, saying; Allahu Akbar, someone came on a horse or on a horse, saying that you should keep your word, not betrayal. And they saw that this man was Amr b. When Muawiya, who was absurd, asked him about this issue, he said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) that he was saying: "If a person has an agreement with a community, until it expires, or before informing each other that they have mutually broken the agreement before its time, he said: let him reattach it, nor untie it.” Thereupon, Muawiya returned from the expedition. (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 152) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1677-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “A standard will be raised on the Day of Judgment for anyone who does not keep his word.” (Muslim, Jihad: 4; Abu Dâvûd, Jihâd: 150) Ali, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Mas'ud, Abu Said al-Khudri and Anas. This hadith is hasan authentic. Suveyd from Abu Ishaq, Umara b. Narrated by Umayr and Ali, "A standard will be raised for every person who does not keep his word." When I asked about the hadith, he replied: "I do not know that this hadith was narrated as merfu."
1678-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: In the Battle of the Trench, Sa'd b. Muâz was injured and one of his arm veins was severed, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) treated him by cauterizing him with fire. Sa'd's arm was swollen. Then he left the blood again and then cauterized it again, but his hand was swollen again. When Sa'd saw this situation, he said: "My God, don't take my life before I make me smile against Qurayza." Thereupon, the blood flowing from Sa'd's vein stopped, not a drop was shed until the sons of Qurayza came to abide by his decree. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) sent a message to him, and he decreed: benefit.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "You have complied with Allah's decree about them." These were four hundred people, and when their killing process was completed, Sa'd's vein burst and he died of blood loss. (Ebû Dâvûd, Medicine: 7; İbn Mâce, Medicine: 24) A hadith has also been reported from Abu Said and Atiyye al Kurazi on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1679-) Samura b. According to a narration from Jundub (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Kill the old people of the polytheists and spare the lives of the young children." (Abu Dâvûd, Jihad: 111) It means a child with an unfinished beard and mustache. This hadith is hasan sahih garib. b. Ertae narrated a similar one from Qatada.
1680-) According to what was reported from Atiyya al-Kurazi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We were shown to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on the day of the battle of Qurayza. I was one of those with a beard and mustache, and he set me free.” (Abu Dawud, Hudud: 18; Ibn Majah, Hudud: 4) This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of some scholars is according to this hadith, and they accepted the beard, mustache, skirt and armchair hair growth as adolescence. They say that it is known from the puberty hairs of children whose age and whether they have inflammation are unknown. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1681-) Amr b. According to the narration from the grandfather of Shuayb (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said in one of his sermons: “Keep your promises, even if they are in the period of ignorance, because Islam is more meticulous in this matter. Do not introduce innovations by making inheritance and similar contracts in Islam during the period of ignorance.” (Musnad: 2/485) Abdurrahman b. Awf, Umm Salama, Cubeyr b. Mut'ım, Abu Huraira, Ibn Abbas and Kays b. A hadith was also narrated from Asim. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1682-) Becale b. According to what is reported from Abde (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was the clerk of Muawiya, this letter came to us from Caliph Omar. In the letter, it was written: “Check and examine the situation of the Magi in your province and collect the jizya tax from them. Because Abdurrahman b. According to what Awf told me, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to collect jizya from the Magi of Hajar. (Bukhari, Cizye: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Haraç: 31) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1683-) According to the narration from Becale (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Umar told him that Abdurrahman b. He would not charge the jizya tax from the Magi until Avf gave the following news: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) received the jizya tax from the Magi of Hecer." This hadith is longer than the one reported here. (Bukhari, Cizye: 1; Dârimî, Siyer: 59)
1684-) Sâib b. According to the narration from Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) received jizya from the Bahrain Magi. Omar also took the jizya from the Iranian Magi. Again, Osman received the jizya tax from the Iranians.” (Muwatta, Zakat: 24) I asked Muhammad about the hadith and he said: It is a hadith narrated by Malik from Zuhri.
1685-) Ukbe b. According to the narration from Amîr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “O Messenger of Allah! We stop by some societies, they neither host us nor give us our due, we do not take them by force, we give up, what do you say? Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If they force you to take them, take them from them, even if by force. (Bukhari, Mazâlim: 18) This hadith is hasan. This hadith was narrated by Leys b. Sa'd, Yazid b. It was narrated from Abu Habib in the same way. The meaning of this hadith is as follows: When they went to war, they could not find food to buy from the different communities they passed through on the way, even in exchange for money. Upon this, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If they force you to take them by force, by not selling them, then take them by force". This is how it is interpreted in hadiths. Umar b. It is narrated that Khattab also gave orders in the same way.
1686-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said on the day Mecca was conquered: "After the conquest of Mecca, Mecca became an Islamic country, so there is no way to migrate from there to other places. . But there is jihad and this intention to Islamize every part of the earth. When you are called to the expedition for Jihad, mobilize immediately.” (Nesâî, Allegiance: 11; Abu Dâvûd, Jihâd: 2) In this regard, Ebû Said, Abdullah b. Amr and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Hubshi. This hadith is hasan authentic. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Mansur b. He narrated this hadith similarly from Mu'tamir.
1687-) Jabir b. According to what is reported from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh): Jabir; “O Muhammad! Allah was pleased with those believers who declared that they were loyal to you under that tree and accepted your political authority…” He said about the verse: “We accepted his political authority and pledged allegiance to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), not to flee to him, and to die. We didn't.” (Dârimî, Siyer: 10; Nesâî, Allegiance: 26) On this subject, Seleme b. Ekvâ', İbn Ömer, Ubade ve Cerir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah. This hadith is Isa b. Yunus, Evzai and Yahya b. It was also narrated from Abî Kathir, and Yahya said: “Jabir b. From Abdullah," he did not mention Abu Salama.
1688-) Yazid b. According to the narration from Abu Ubayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: Salama b. I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) on the day of Hudaybiyya, on what subject did you accept his political authority and accept his political authority, he said, "To live as a Muslim and die as a Muslim." (Nesai, Allegiance: 1) The hadith is hasan sahih.
1689-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We used to pledge allegiance to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to listen to what he said and to live and obey what we listened to, and he said to us: “On the issues that you can afford”. (Nesai, Allegiance: 18) This hadith is hasan authentic. Both are the same in terms of meaning and are valid. As follows: Some of his Companions; They pledged allegiance to him on death and said that they will be with him as long as we are alive and we will act together. Others have sworn allegiance that we will be together in every matter and that we will not run away.
1690-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We accepted his political authority and pledged allegiance to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), not on death but on avoiding anything. (Nesai, Allegiance: 18) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1691-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There are three people who will not talk to them, but Allah will not purify them from punishment and punishment, and will prepare a painful torment for them. “A person who keeps his word if he pays allegiance to the head of state and is given property, money and rank, if he does not keep his word, if not, he does not keep his word” (Tirmidhi did not count the other two.) (Dârimî, Siyer: 10; Nesâî, Allegiance: 26) This hadith is hasan authentic. This work was accepted without dispute.
1692-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: A slave came and paid allegiance to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to migrate. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not know that he was a slave. Then the master of that slave came and wanted to take the slave away. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered me to sell that slave and bought it for two black slaves. After this incident, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not take allegiance from anyone without asking if he was a slave. (Nesai, Allegiance: 21) The hadith of Jabir hasan garib is sound. We know only from the narration of Abu'z Zubayr.
1693-) According to a narration from the daughter of Umayma bint Rukayka (radiyallahu anh), she says: I gave allegiance to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) with some women. I did. Me too; I said, 'Allah and His Messenger are more merciful to us than we are. Then I said accept our allegiance. Sufyan said: He wants to say 'Musafaha' with us one by one. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “My speaking to a hundred women together is like speaking to one woman.” (Muslim, Imara: 21; Nesâî, Allegiance: 18) Yazîd, in this regard, Âisha, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Omar and Asma bint Yazid. This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith is only reported by Muhammad b. We know from the narration of Munkadir. es Sevrî, Mâlik b. Anas and many others reported this hadith from Muhammad b. They narrated similarly from Munkadir. I asked Muhammad about this hadith and he said: I do not know Umayma bint Rukayka apart from this hadith. There is another female narrator named Umayma, who narrated some hadiths from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh).
1694-) According to what is reported from Barâ (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We used to talk among ourselves about the number of people who participated in the Battle of Badr and say that it was three hundred and thirteen, as the number of Talut's men.” (Bukhari, Maghazi: 6) This hadith is hasan authentic. Thawri and others have narrated this hadith from Abu Ishaq.
1695-) According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to the delegation of Abdulkays: “I order you to give one-fifth of what you have obtained as booty…” This hadith is a little longer than the one here. (Abu Dawud, Haraj: 19) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1696-) Kutayba, Hammad b. He narrated it to us similarly from Zayd, Abu Jamra and Ibn Abbas.
1697-) Rafi' b. According to the narration from Hadic (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We were at war with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and those who were quicker to their feet advanced, took something from the booty and started cooking it. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was in the last group of the soldiers. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) passed by the cooking utensils, and upon his command, these utensils were poured out and emptied, then he divided the booty among the soldiers and made one camel equal to ten sheep.” (Ibn Majah, Edahi: 6)
1698-) Sûfyan es Sevrî, from his father, from Abaye, from his grandfather, Rafi' b. He narrated this hadith from Hadic, but did not say "from his father". Likewise, Mahmud b. Gaylan narrated from Waki and Sufyan, which is more authentic. In this regard, Sa'lebe b. Referee, Enes, Ebû Reyhan, Ebû'd Derda ve Abdurrahman b. Samura, Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Khalid, Jabir, Abu Huraira and Abu Ayyub. This narration is more authentic. Abay b. Rifaa, his grandfather Rafî' b. He listened to hadith from Hadîç.
1699-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Whoever loots and plunders, he is not one of us." (Ibn Mace, Edahi: 16) This hadith of Anas is hasan sahih.
1700-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not greet Jews and Christians first, if you meet one of them on the way, force them to pass through the hardest and narrowest part of the road." (Muslim, Salam: 4) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar, Anas and Abu Basra al-Gifari, the friend of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). This hadith is hasan authentic.
1701-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When one of the Jews greets you, they always greet you as follows: poison to you. Get their greetings by saying “ve aleyke” to your head. (Muslim, Salam: 4) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1702-) Cerir b. It was narrated from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) sent a detachment to the tribe of Has'am. Even though some of the people there declared that they were Muslims and prostrated themselves to protect themselves, they rushed to kill the detachment and killed them as well. When the situation reached the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he ordered half a diet to be paid for each of them and said: "I am far from every Muslim who lives among the polytheists." Why? O Messenger of Allah! they said. Because the fires they lit are indistinguishable from each other or the fires of the polytheists and Muslims should not see each other. (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 95)
1703-) Hennad (radiyallahu anh), Ismail b. From Abu Khalid, Kays b. He narrated a similar hadith from Ebî Hâzim, but did not mention "Jarir" in his deed. This narration is more authentic. A hadith has also been reported from Samura on the subject. The majority of Ismail's friends were Kays b. They do not mention "Cerir" in their deed by narrating from Ebî Hazîm. b. Seleme, Haccac b. From Ertae, İsmail b. They narrated a similar hadith of Muawiya from Abi Khalid, Qays and Jarir. I heard from Muhammad and he said: It is the authentic narration of Qays from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) as a mursal. Semur b. Jundub narrates from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "Do not live in the same area with the polytheists, do not congregate with them or marry them, whoever is in congregation with them or marries is like them."
1704-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If I live, I will definitely drive out Jews and Christians from the Arabian peninsula." (Muslim, Jihad: 21; Abu Dawud, Haraj: 21)
1705-) Umar b. Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh) heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “I will definitely drive the Jews and Christians out of the Arabian peninsula, and only Muslims will remain there.” (Muslim, Jihad: 21; Abu Dawud, Haraj: 21) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1706-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Fatima came to Abu Bakr and asked: Who will inherit you? “My family and my children,” he said. Fatima: Then why can't I inherit my father? Abu Bakr said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saying: "We Prophets do not inherit, that is, we do not inherit." But I will take care of those whom the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) took care of, and I will provide the alimony of those whom he provides. (Bukhari, Feraiz: 2; Nesâî, Fey taksim: 1; Muslim, Jihâd: 16) Ömer, Talha, Zübeyr, Abdurrahman b. Hadith was also narrated from Awf, Sa'd and Aisha. The hadith of Hurayra is hasan garib in this form. Only Hammad b. Seleme, Abdulvehhab b. Through Ata' Muhammad b. They narrated from Amr, Abu Salama and Abu Huraira as musnad. I asked Muhammad about the hadith and he said: I heard this hadith from Abu Hurayra, Abu Salama, Muhammad b. Amr, Hammad b. We do not know that anyone other than Salama narrated it. b. Ata', Muhammed b. Amr, Abu Salama, Abu Huraira, Hammad b. He narrated this hadith similar to the narration of Salama.
1707-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), Fatima came to Abu Bakr and Umar and asked about the inheritance of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). We heard from ) that he was saying: “We do not inherit the Prophets” Fatima: “I will never talk about this issue with you two again” Fatima died without talking about this issue. Ali b. Jesus says: "I will not talk to the two of you" means that I will never talk to the two of you about inheritance, you are both decent people. (Muslim, Jihad: 16; Buahari, Feraiz: 2; Nesai, Fey Taksimi: 1), the hadith was also narrated from Abu Bakr in a different way.
1708-) Malik b. Evs b. According to the narration from Hadesan (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar b. I went to Khattab. At the same time, Osman b. Affan, Zübeyr b. Avvam, Abdurrahman b. Avf, Sa'd b. Abi Waqqas also came to him. Then Ali and Abbas came there as plaintiffs. Omar said to these distinguished people, I want you to say that for the sake of Allah, who keeps the heavens and the earth standing by his laws. Do you know that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: We do not inherit, we do not inherit, everything we leave is charity. Said; And they said: "Yes". Upon this, Umar said: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) died, Abu Bakr said: I am the caliph of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and his guardian. You Abbas! You came to Abu Bakr with Ali. You asked your brother's son for his inheritance, and he wanted his wife's inheritance from his father. Thereupon, Abu Bakr reminded us of the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) command: "We Prophets do not leave any inheritance, what we leave is charity." Allah knows: Abu Bakr was a man who found the truth and followed the truth. (Muslim, Jihad: 16; Bukhari, Feraiz: 2) This hadith is longer than this version. This hadith was written by Malik b. As a narration from Anas, it is hasan sahih garib.
1709-) Haris b. Malik b. According to a narration from Barsa (radiyallahu anh), he said: On the day of the conquest of Makkah, I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "After this day, there will be no war against this town until the Day of Judgment." (Muslim, Jihad: 33; Abu Dâvûd, Haraj: 24) Ibn Abbas, Süleyman b. Hadith was also narrated from Surad and Muti. The hadith is hasan sahih. This hadith is Zakariyya b. Abî Zaide's narration from Sha'bi. We know it only by this hadith.
1710-) Numân b. According to a narration from Mukarrin (radiyallahu anh), he said: I went to war with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); He would stop the war from the moment the sun started to rise until the sun came up, and he would start the war again when the sun came up. Again, starting at half-day, he would stop until the sun went west, and when the sun went west, he would fight until the afternoon prayer, then he would perform the afternoon prayer and fight again. Numan says: It was said that the winds of victory were blowing at these moments, and the believers used to pray for their army in their prayers. (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 101) This hadith was written by Numan b. It was narrated from Mukarrin with a more valid promissory note than here. Katade Numân b. He did not reach Mukarrin. Numân b. Mukarrin died during the caliphate of Omar.
1711-) Ma'kil b. It was narrated from Yasar (radiyallahu anh). Umar b. Hattab Numân b. Mukarrini sent it to Hurmuzan. -The hadith is a bit long- Numan b. Mukarrin says: I was at war with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 101) This hadith is hasan authentic. Alkame b. Abdullah, Bekir b. He is the brother of Abdullah el Muzeni. Numân b. Mukarrin died during the caliphate of Omar.
1712-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Belief in bad luck leads to shirk, we Muslims should not have such obsessions. Allah removes such corrupted obsessions if you put your trust in Him well. (Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 24; İbn Mâce, Medicine: 43) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Abu Hurayra, Hâbis et Tamim, Aisha, Ibn Omar and Sa'd. This hadith is hasan authentic. Only Salama b. We know from the narration of Küheyl. Likewise, he narrated this hadith from Salama. Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail, he was saying: Solomon b. Harb used to say about this hadith: “Vema minna…” mentioned in the hadith, in my opinion, Abdullah b. It is Mas'ud's own word.
1713-) It was narrated from Enes (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Contagious spreading: it is not from the disease itself, but by Allah's permission. There is no belief that there is bad luck in things and events in the Age of Ignorance. I like Fe. What is Fe'l? They said, O Messenger of Allah; They said, "Fe'l is a kind word that is kind and heartfelt". (Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 24; İbn Mâce, Medicine: 43) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
1714-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) liked to say the words “O successful one, O finder of the right way” or to hear these words from someone else when he set out for a need and started work. (Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 24; İbn Mâce, Medicine: 43) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
1715-) Süleyman b. According to the narration from the father of Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was going to send an army, he would especially advise his commander, being conscious of responsibility, to find his way with the orders of Allah and His Messenger, and to treat the Muslims with him well and say: Fight in the name of Allah in the name of Allah and fight the infidels who cover up all kinds of truths from Allah. Do not betray the booty, keep your promises, and do not get involved in things such as cutting the eyes and noses of the people you killed. Do not kill small children. When you meet the enemies of the polytheists, invite them to three issues; (Being a Muslim, paying the jizya or fighting) According to whichever of the three subjects they invite you accept, accept their request and withdraw your hand from them. Invite them to convert to Islam, so that their homeland has become the home of the Muhajirs, and inform them that if they do so, they will have the same rights as the immigrants and they will bear the responsibilities they bear. If they stay away from this emigration, they will be like the people living in the desert. The provisions that apply to those living in the desert will also apply to them. As long as they do not participate in jihad and fight, they will not receive anything from the booty. If they do not accept this, then seek Allah's help and fight them. When you besiege the castle, if the people in the castle want the protection and protection of Allah and His Messenger, do not do this, give them confidence with the protection and protection of the person and his soldiers, because if you make a mistake in your own protection and protection, it will be better than the mistake you make under the protection of Allah and His Messenger. Again, when you besiege a castle, if they ask you to descend by the decree of Allah, do not bring them down with your own decree. Because you don't know if Allah's decision about them was hit or not - he used a similar expression. (Muslim, Jihad: 2; Abu Dâvûd, Jihâd: 73) Numan b. A hadith was also reported from Mukarrin. The hadith of Burayda is hasan authentic.
1716-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, through Abu Ahmed, from Sufyan to Alkame b. He narrated a similar hadith from Mersed in terms of meaning and added the following: "If they turn away from this, take the jizya from them, and if they turn away from it, fight them by asking Allah's help." Waki' and many others have narrated this hadith from Sufyan. Muhammed b. Other than Bashar, this hadith was reported by Abdurrahman b. They mentioned the issue of "giving jizya..." by narrating from the Mahdi.
1717-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to raid only at the time of the morning prayer. If he heard the adhan, he would give up the raid, otherwise he would attack. Once he listened and heard a man say Allahu Akbar Allahu Akbar and said: “According to the religion of fitrah…” Then the man; When he said ashhedu enla ilahe illallah, he said: "You came out of Hell...". (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 82-91-122)
1718-) Hasan says: Ebul Walid, Hammad b. He narrated a similar version of this hadith to us through Salama in the same vein. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1719-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh), he said: They said: "You can't afford it." They asked the same question two or three times, and the third time he said: An example of a person who makes jihad in the way of Allah: Mujahid; He is like a person who spends his nights in prayer and fasting without getting tired until he returns from Jihad.” (Muslim, Imara: 34) Şifa, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Hubshi, Abu Musa, Abu Said, Umm Malik al-Behziyye and Enes. The hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways.
1720-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Allah says: A person who strives in the way of Allah in the name of Allah is under my protection. If I take his soul, I will inherit Paradise for him, if I return him to their homeland, I will return him with rewards and spoils." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is authentic as it is.
1721-) Fedâle b. Ubayd (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated to us from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) that he said: “Every person who dies has his book of deeds closed, but except for a person whose heart dies in the way of Allah, his deeds will increase and increase until the Day of Judgment, and that person will be saved from the fitna of the grave. is safe.” I also heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "A mujahid is a person who struggles to stay away from sins by making jihad against his own desires." (Muslim, Imara: 42; Abu Dâvûd, Jihad: 36) Ukbe b. Hadith was also narrated from Amir and Jabir. The hadith of Fudale is hasan authentic.
1722-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever fasts for one day while fighting in the way of Allah, Allah will remove him from Hell for seventy years." While one of the narrators says seventy years, the other says forty years. (Nesai, Savm: 44) This hadith is strange in its form. Aswad's name is Muhammed b. Abdurrahman b. Nawfal al-Asad is from Medina. In this regard, Ebû Said, Enes, Ukbe b. Hadith was also narrated from Amir and Abu Umama.
1723-) According to what was narrated from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever fasts for one day while making jihad in the way of Allah, Allah will remove the fire of Hell seventy years from him because of this fast.” (Nesai, Savm: 44) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1724-) According to the narration from Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever fasts for a day while fighting in the way of Allah, a ditch will form between Allah's fire and that person, the size of the earth and the sky. brings.” (Nesai, Savm: 44) The hadith of Abu Umama is strange.
1725-) Huraym b. According to the narration from Fatik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever spends in the way of Allah, seven hundred times the reward will be given to him for his spending." (Nasai, Jihad: 7) A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Huraira on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith only Rukayn b. We know by the narration of Rabi.
1726-) Adiy b. According to the narration from Hatim al-Tai (radiy-Allâhu anh): Adiyy asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) which charity is more virtuous. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A slave to serve those who fight in the way of Allah, or a tent or other shade for them to shade, or a mount for the mujahid to ride on, or a camel slaughtered for their food." (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is Muawiya b. It was narrated by Salih as a mursal. Zayd was opposed in the deed of some narrations. Walid b. Jamil said this hadith; From Kasim Abu Abdurrahman, from Abu Umama, in this way Ziyâd b. He transmitted it to us from Ayyub.
1727-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The most valuable and valuable expenditure is the shade of the tent donated to the mujahid fighting in the way of Allah, or the servant who will serve the mujahid fighting in the way of Allah or Allah A ride on which the mujahid who fights on his way will ride.” (Ibn Majah, Jihad: 14; Nesai, Jihad: 44) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. The previous one with me was Muawiya b. It is more authentic than Salih's hadith.
1728-) Zayd b. According to what was narrated from Khalid al-Juheni (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever equips a mujahid who will fight in the way of Allah with the necessary weapons, mounts and materials, will gain rewards as if he had waged war himself. Whoever meets the needs of the children of a mujahid who goes to war, he will still get rewards as if he had fought.” (Nesai, Jihad: 44; Ibn Mâce, Jihad: 14) This hadith is hasan authentic and has been narrated in another way.
1729-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Khalid al-Juheni (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever equips a mujahid fighting in the way of Allah with the necessary weapons, mounts and materials, or meets the needs of the mujahid's children, he will gain rewards just as if he participated in the war. ” (Nesâî, Jihâd: 44; İbn Mâce, Jihâd: 14) This hadith is hasan.
1730-) Muhammed b. Beşşar (radiy-Allâhu anh), Yahya b. Said by Abdulmalik b. Ebi Süleyman, Ata, Zayd b. They narrated a similar hadith from Khalid al-Juheni.
1731-) Again Zayd b. According to the narration from Khalid al-Juhani (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever equips a mujahid who fights in the way of Allah with the necessary weapons, mounts and materials, or meets the needs of the mujahid's children, he will receive rewards as if he participated in the war. ” (Nesai, Jihad: 44; Ibn Mâce, Jihâd: 14) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1732-) Yazid b. According to the narration from Abî Meryem (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While I was going to the Friday prayer, Abaye b. Rifaa caught up with me and said: Good news to you, these steps of yours are counted in the way of Allah; I heard Abu Abs say: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Hellfire is forbidden for those whose feet get dusty in the way of gaining Allah's approval." (Nesai, Jihad: 9) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. The name of Abu Abs is Abdurrahman b. It is Cebr. The hadith was also narrated by a man from the companions of Abu Bakr and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Burayd b. Abî Meryem is a person from Damascus and named after Walid b. Muslim Yahya b. Many people from Hamza and Damascus have narrated hadiths. Also, Büreyd from Küfeli b. There is Abu Maryam whose father was one of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and her name was Malik b. It is Rabia. This is Burayd b. Ebi Meryem, Enes b. Heard a hadith from Malik. Burayd b. from Ebi Meryem; Ebû İshâk el Hemedânî, Ata b. Saib, Yunus b. Abu Ishaq and Shu'ba narrated many hadiths.
1733-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A person who cries for fear of Allah's punishment will not enter Hellfire unless the milk that has been milked turns back to the breast. The smoke of Hell will not come together with the dust and soil that afflicts a person who makes jihad in the way of Allah.” (Nesai, Jihad: 9; Dârimî: Jihâd: 8) This hadith is hasan sahih. Muhammed b. Abdurrahman is Abu Talha's freed slave and is from Medina.
1734-) Sâlim b. According to the narration from Ebî'l Ca'd: Şurahbil b. Sımt said: O Ka'b b. Murray! Give us hadiths from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), but be careful not to say too much or too little. Ka'b b. Murra said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "Whoever has a gray hair in the way of Islam, that hair will be a light (light) for him on the Day of Judgment." (Nesâî, Jihâd: 9) In this regard, Fedâle b. Ubayd, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. Ka'b b. Murra hadith likewise, A'mesh, Amr b. He narrated from Murra. Again, this hadith is from Mansur, Sâlim b. It was narrated from Ebî'l Ca'd and in his deed, Sâlim and Ka'b b. Murre or Murre b. It is said in Ka'b el Bahzi. He narrated many hadiths from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam).
1735-) Amr b. According to a narration from Abese (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever bleaches his hair and beard by striving to make Allah's religion the highest on earth, those hairs will be light for him on the Day of Judgment." (Nesai, Jihad: 9) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. b. He is the son of Shureyh Yazid al-Himsi.
1736-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Goodness and goodness are tied on the foreheads of horses until the Day of Judgment. There are three kinds of horses; There are some horses that bring rewards to their owners, and some horses that cover their owner's poverty and poverty, and some horses that bring sin to their owner." worthy horse; He is prepared and raised for jihad in the way of Allah; this horse always earns rewards for its owner, and Allah will reward that person for everything that is fed to those horses.” This hadith is quite long. (Nesai, Hayl: 1; Ibn Mâce: Jihad: 14) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Enes, Zayd b. He narrated a similar hadith from Eslem, from Abu Salih, from Abu Huraira.
1737-) Abdullah b. Abdurrahman b. According to a narration from Abul Husayn, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Allah will admit three people to Paradise for a single arrow; The one who makes arrows for good in order to win Allah's approval, the one who shoots the arrow against the enemy and the one who helps in shooting. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued: Be a thrower, be a rider! I think it's better to be a shooter than a rider. Everything that a Muslim person does as a game and distraction is empty and meaningless. However; It is not superstitious and empty entertainment, but games and entertainments that bring right, truth and good deeds.” (Nesai, Jihad: 26; Ibn Majah, Jihad: 19)
1738-) Ahmed b. Menî', Yazîd b. From Hisham ed Destevai through Harun, from Yahya b. From Ebî Kathir, Abu Sellam, Abdullah b. From Ezrak, Ukbe b. He narrated a similar hadith from Amir al-Juheni. In this regard, Ka'b b. Murre, Amr b. Abese, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1739-) According to the narration from Abu Najih al-Sulami (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saying: "Whoever shoots an arrow in the way of Allah; He earns rewards as if he freed a slave.” (Nesai, Jihad: 26; Ibn Mâce, Jihâd: 19) This hadith is authentic. Nuceyh: Amr b. Abese es Sülemî. Abdullah b. Ezrak is; Abdullah b. Yazid.
1740-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "There are two eyes that the fire will not touch them, an eye that weeps out of fear of Allah's punishment, and an eye that waits in the way of Allah." eyelash." (Nesâî, Jihâd: 33; İbn Mâce, Jihâd: 8) A hadith has also been narrated from Osman and Ebû Reyhane on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan sahih, and this hadith is only reported by Shuayb b. We know with the narration of Ruzeyk.
1741-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Being killed and martyred in the way of Allah is expiation for all sins. Jibril (against peace) said: Debt is exempt. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, 'Except debt. (Nesâî, Jihâd: 32; İbn Mâce, Jihâd: 16) Ka'b b. Hadiths were also narrated from Ucre, Jabir, Abu Huraira and Abu Qatada. This hadith is garib. Only this old man, Yahya b. We know it through the narration of Talha el Yerbui. Muhammed b. I asked Ismail about this hadith, he did not recognize the hadith and said: If you think, Yahya b. Talha may be referring to the hadith narrated by Humayd through Anas: "There is no one among the people of Paradise who is happy to return to the world except a martyr".
1742-) Ka'b b. According to the narration from the father of Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The souls of the martyrs are as if they are inside the green birds. They cling to the fruits and trees of Paradise.” (That is, Paradise is their place of constant wandering.) (Ibn Majah, Jihad: 16) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1743-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I was shown the three people who will enter Paradise first; A martyr, chaste, and contented person is a slave who is sincere towards his masters by doing his good deeds to Allah.” (Ibn Majah, Jihad: 16) This hadith is hasan.
1744-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "No servant who dies and attains the goodness of Paradise in the sight of Allah wants to return from Paradise to the world again, and to make the world his own, together with all its contents. He does not want it, but the martyr is outside of it. Because he knows the value and value of martyrdom, he desires to return to the world and become a martyr again.” (Ibn Majah, Jihad: 16) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ebi Omar and Sûfyan b. They say to Uyeyna: Amr b. Dinar is older than Zuhri.
1745-) According to the narration from Abu Yazid al-Havlani (radiyallahu anh), he said: Fedale b. I heard from Ubayd that he was saying: Umar b. I heard from Khattab that he said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) that he said: There are four types of martyrs; 1- He is a firm believer who remains faithful to Allah until he is killed by the enemy. When he said that people will look up at this person on the Day of Judgment, he raised his head so much that his cone on his head fell off. According to the narrator, I do not know whether it was the Prophet whose cone had fallen, or if it was Omar. 2- Again, a person who came face to face with the enemy and was martyred by a dazed arrow hitting him, is like a person who feels timid as if the thorn of a banana tree has stinged. This is a firm believer and a believing person, which is secondary. 3- A sinful believer who does good and bad deeds while alive, encounters an enemy, and is a person who keeps his promise and becomes a martyr until he fulfills his promise to Allah, which is the third degree. 4- Again, a man who has met the enemy by committing many sins by committing many sins throughout his life, and who fights until he is martyred by keeping his promise to Allah, which is the fourth degree.” (Musnad: 145) The hadith is hasan garib. Only Ata b. We know from the narration of Dinar. I heard from Muhammad saying: Said b. Abi Ayyub reported this hadith from Ata b. He narrated from Dinar. He said: Havlan narrated from his sheikhs, and in this narration he did not say from "Abu Yazid". Ata b. Dinar is a harmless and acceptable person in terms of narration.
1746-) Ishaq b. Abdullah b. It is narrated from Abi Talha (radiyallahu anh): He heard Anas say: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to go to Milhan's daughter Umm Haram. Umm Haram used to feed her. Umm Haram, Ubade b. He was married to Samit. One day, he went to her and she gave food to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He was sitting by the head of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him), who was sleeping for some rest. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) fell asleep and woke up laughing a little later. Umm Haram said: O Messenger of Allah, why did you laugh? Said. They said: Some people from my ummah showed me in my dream that they were going to war in the way of Allah, like the rulers on thrones, on these ships on the sea. Me: O Messenger of Allah! I said pray to Allah to make me one of them. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed for him. Then he put his head to sleep and woke up again laughing right after. I said to him, O Messenger of Allah, what makes you laugh? He said: Some people from my ummah were shown to me as veterans in the way of Allah, and he said something similar to his previous statement. Umm Haram said: O Messenger of Allah, I said, pray to Allah to make me one of them. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: You are one of the former ones. Muawiya b. In the time of Abi Sufyan, Umm Haram went on a sea voyage. A mule was brought for him to ride on his return, but that animal threw him off his back, and he died there with a broken neck. (Bukhari, Jihad: 62; Abu Dâvûd, Jihâd: 15; Dârimî Jihâd: 29) This hadith is hasan authentic. Umm Haram bint Milhan is the sister of Umm Sulaym. Enes b. She is Malik's aunt.
1747-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked which of those who fought for valor or for the defense of the land and tribe and for show was a warrior in the way of Allah. If Islam fights for domination and authority on the earth, that person; It means he is fighting in the way of Allah.” (Muslim, Imara: 42; Ibn Majah, Jihad: 15) A hadith was also reported from Omar on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic.
1748-) Umar b. It was narrated from Khattab (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Every work done is evaluated according to intention. Whatever everyone intends, he gets. Whoever leaves his hometown or stays away from sins is in accordance with the will of Allah and His Messenger, his deed will be considered in the way of Allah and his account will be determined accordingly in the Hereafter. And whoever leaves his hometown for a worldly possession or for a woman he acquires, his emigration also belongs to the thing to which he migrated. Thus, he will have them, and he will be accounted accordingly in the Hereafter.” (Bukhari, Bed-il Vahy: 1; Muslim, Imara: 45) This hadith is hasan authentic. Malik b. Enes, Sûfyan es Sevrî and many hadith imams reported this hadith as Yahya b. Said, and only Yahya b. We know it through the narration of Said al-Ansari. Abdurrahman b. Mahdi says: This hadith should be placed at the beginning of every subject.
1749-) Sahl b. According to a narration from Sa'd es Saidi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is better than this world and everything in the world to set out early one morning to make jihad in the way of Allah. The size of a whip in Paradise is better than the world and what is in it.” (Nesai, Jihad: 11) There are hadiths related to this subject from Abu Hurayra, Ibn Abbas, Abu Ayyub and Anas. The hadith is hasan authentic.
1750-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A morning or evening walk for jihad in the way of Allah is better than the world and what is in it." (Bukhari, Jihad: 5; Ibn Majah, Jihad: 2) This hadith is hasan garib. b. Abu Hazim, who narrated hadiths from Sa'd, was a Zahid and was from Medina, his name: Salama b. It is dinar. Abu Hazim, who narrated from Hurayra, is Abu Hazim al-Ashcai and is from Kufa. His name is Selman. He is the freed slave of Azze el Eşcaîyye.
1751-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: One of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) passed by a community with a fresh water source, and he liked the view of that place and said: If only I could get away and settle down next to a society with a beautiful view…! But he said that he would not do this without permission from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and explained the situation to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not do this comfortable job by staying away from the people, even if it is for a short time in the way of Allah, it is more valuable and valuable than the voluntary prayer that he will perform at home for seventy years. Don't you want Allah to forgive you and put you in Paradise? So fight in the way of Allah. Whoever fights in the way of Allah, even for as little time as milking a camel, Paradise becomes obligatory for him.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 5; Ibn Majah, Jihad: 2) This hadith is hasan.
1752-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A walk in the way of Allah morning and evening for jihad; is better than the world and what is in it. The size of a bow or the place of one of you in Paradise is better than the world and what is in it. If a woman from the women of Paradise bends down and looks at the world; It illuminates the space between the earth and the sky and fills them with a beautiful fragrance. The veil on the head of a woman in Paradise is better and more valuable than the world and everything in it.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 5; Ibn Majah, Jihad: 2) This hadith is authentic.
1753-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Open your ears and pay attention to who is the best of people for you? Shall I let you know? He is a person who clings to the bridle of his horse for jihad in the way of Allah. Again, listen carefully, shall I inform you of the next good person? He is the one who fulfills the rights of Allah in those sheep who get away from people with a small amount of sheep. Beware, let me inform you of the most evil of people; He is a person who does not give anything even though something is asked for the sake of Allah.” (Nesai, Jihad: 16) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. The hadith was also narrated from Ibn Abbas in different ways.
1754-) Sahl b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Hunayf (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever sincerely wishes to be a martyr; Even if he dies in his bed, Allah will raise him to the rank of martyrs.” (Nesâî, Jihâd: 36; Ebû Dâvûd, Jihâd: 40) Sahl b. The hadith of Hunayf is hasen garib and this hadith is only reported by Abdurrahman b. We know from the narration of Shurayh. Abdullah b. Salih reported this hadith from Abdurrahman b. He narrated from Shurayh. Abdurrahman b. Şüreyh is known by his nickname Abu Şüreyh. He is from Alexandria. on the subject of Muâz b. A hadith was also narrated from Jabal.
1755-) Muâz b. According to a narration from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever sincerely wants to be a martyr, Allah will reward him as a martyr.” (Nesai, Jihad: 36; Abu Dâvûd, Jihâd: 40) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1756-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are three people who help them is a right for Allah. A person who makes jihad in the way of Allah, a slave who works hard to pay a certain amount of money to be free, a person who gets married to protect himself from adultery.” (Nesai, Nikah: 5) This hadith is hasan.
1757-) According to a narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person is injured while making jihad in the way of Allah, Allah knows best who was injured in his own way. The color of the wound will come with the color of blood and the smell of musk.” (Nesai, Jihad: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways.
1758-) Muâz b. According to a narration from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a Muslim fights in the way of Allah as much as milking a camel, Paradise will be obligatory for him. Again, if a person gets a wound or suffers any trouble while fighting in the way of Allah, on the Day of Judgment, that wound and distress will be more severe than it is, and its smell of victory is like the smell of musk.” (Nesai, Jihad: 27)
1759-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked which deed is more valuable and valuable, he said, “Belief in Allah and His Messenger”. Then what deed was said? He said, "Jihad is the pinnacle of all deeds." Then what deed was said? "Accepted pilgrimage," they said. (Nesai, Jihad: 17; Ibn Mâce, Jihâd: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways.
1760-) Abu Bakr b. According to a narration from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard from his father when he was facing the enemy, he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The gates of Paradise are under the shadows of swords." Thereupon, a strange looking man from that society said: Did you hear it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) himself saying this? said. When Abu Musa al-Ash'ari said yes, that man returned to his friends, said hello to you, broke the sheath of his sword and fought the enemy until he was martyred.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 22) This hadith is sahih garib and only Jafar b. We know it through the narration of Süleyman ed Dubai. The name of Abu Imran al Cevnî was Abdulmalik b. It's Habib. Abu Bakr b. About Ebî Musa: Ahmed b. Hanbal says it is his name.
1761-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: Which of the people is more valuable and valuable to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? He was asked. They said: "He is the one who makes jihad in the way of Allah." Then who is it? they said. He said, "He is the one who withdraws to the coastal areas and stays away from people, increases his servitude to his Lord, tries to find his way with Allah and His Messenger, and says that no harm will come to people." (Nesai, Jihad: 7) This hadith is authentic.
1762-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: No one from the people of Paradise will be happy to return to the world. Only the martyr rejoices. Because he sees and knows the bounty that Allah has given him for martyrdom, he desires to return to the world again and to be killed in the way of Allah ten times, that is, to become a martyr. (Bukhari, Jihad: 21) The hadith is hasan sound.
1763-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. Through Cafer, he conveyed a similar meaning to this hadith from Shu'ba, Qatada, and Enes. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1764-) Mıkdam b. According to the narration from Ma'd Karib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A martyr has six characteristics in the sight of Allah; As soon as he becomes a martyr, his sins are forgiven and his place in Paradise is shown to him. He is protected from the torment of the grave, he is safe from the greatest fear of the Day of Judgment. A crown of dignity is worn on his head, and a single ruby stone on that crown is more valuable and valuable than the world and what is in it. She is married to seventy-two houri with big eyes in Paradise. He is allowed to intercede for seventy of his relatives.” (Ibn Majah: Jihad: 16)
1765-) Sahl b. According to a narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "One day's watch to make the religion of Allah dominate the earth is better than the world and what is in it. A tiny place in Paradise occupied by the whip of one of you is still better than the world and what is in it. Again, a night and day walk in the way of Allah is better than the world and what is in it.” (Nesai, Jihad: 7; Bukhari, Jihad: 2)
1766-) Muhammed b. According to the narration from Munkadir (radiyallahu anh), he said: Salman-i Farisi, Shurahbil b. He was in Es Sımt. Shurahbil; they were on duty in a military unit and had a difficult time with their friends. Salman said: O Ibn Us Semt! Shall I tell you a hadith I heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? Shurahbil said: Yes, tell me. Salman said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say, "Staying vigil in the way of Allah for a day is better and more rewarding than fasting for a month with prayers at night. And whoever dies while performing such a duty, he will be protected from the torment of the grave and his good deeds will be increased and enlarged until the Day of Judgment.” (Bukhari Jihad: 2) This hadith is hasan.
1767-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever comes to the presence of Allah without the idea and belief of jihad in the way of Allah in his heart, will arrive in a broken and half-hearted state. (Muslim, Imara: 47; Nesai, Jihad: 2; Abu Dâvûd, Jihâd: 17) This hadith was written by Walid b. Muslim, İsmail b. It is strange because of the narration from Rafi. Some hadith scholars, İsmail b. They said that Rafi was weak. I heard from Muhammad saying: This person is a reliable and middle way narrator. Again, this hadith was narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways. The hadith of Salman is not mutually exclusive, it is disconnected. Muhammed b. Munkedir did not reach Salman-i Farisi. This hadith is also attributed to Ayyub b. From Musa, Makhûl, Şurahbil b. It is also narrated from Sımt and Salman.
1768-) According to the narration from Abu Salih (radiyallahu anh), the freed slave of Osman, he said: Osman b. I heard Affan say on the pulpit: "Because I did not want you to leave me, I concealed the following hadith that I heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), then I found it appropriate to convey it to you, so everyone should choose what is appropriate for him. I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He used to say: "One day's vigil in the war in the way of Allah is better than a thousand days of vigil or service in other service units of the Islamic state." (Nesai, Jihad: 39; Ibn Majah: Jihad: 8) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. b. Ismail says: Abu Salih, Osman b. He is Afvan's freed slave and his name is Bürkan.
1769-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The pain a martyr feels at the time of death is as simple as the pain he feels from pinching.” (Ibn Majah, Jihad: 16) This hadith is hasan sahih.
1770-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Nothing is more beloved to Allah than two drops and two traces. As for the trace, the drop of blood spilled from the eye of a person crying out of fear of Allah's punishment, and the drop of blood shed on the battlefield in the way of Allah: One is like the injury and scar that occurs while fighting in the way of Allah, and the other is like the mark of prostration that occurs while performing the prayers that Allah has made obligatory." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
1771-) Berâ b. It was narrated from Azib (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Bring me a scapula or a plate that can write. He had the 95th verse of Nisa Surah written on the material brought. Amr b. Umm Maktum was behind the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) is it allowed for me because her eyes are blind? When he said that, the verse "Except for those with apologies ..." was revealed. (Nesâî, Jihâd: 4; Buhârî, Jihâd: 35) Ibn Abbas, Jabir and Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit. The hadith is hasan sahih garib as the narration of Sulayman et Taymi from Abu Ishaq. Shu'ba and Thawri reported the same hadith from Abu Ishaq.
1772-) Abdullah b. According to what was narrated from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Someone came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and asked for permission to engage in jihad. Do you have parents in the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)? he commanded. When that person says yes; They said: "Make jihad by serving your parents". (Nesai, Jihad: 6; Bukhari, Jihad: 137) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. This hadith is authentic. Abu'l Abbas is a blind poet from Mecca. His name is Sâib b. It is Ferrûh.
1773-) According to what is reported from Ibn Jurayc (radiy-Allâhu anh), Ibn Jurayc, in the 59th verse of Nisa Surah: “O you who believe! Obey Allah and obey His Messenger. He also said about the verse "Obey those who are Muslims like you and have been given authority": Abdullah b. Huzafe b. Kays b. Ya'la b. Muslim, Said b. He transmitted it from Ibn Abbas through Jubayr. (In other words, the person at the head of the detachment will be obeyed as Allah and His Messenger are obeyed.) (Muslim, Imara: 1; Nesai, Allegiance: 28) This hadith is hasan sahih. We know this hadith only through the narration of Ibn Jurayj.
1774-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If people knew the dangers of traveling alone as I do, no one would go on a night journey alone in their riding gear." (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 79)
1775-) Amr b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Shuayb (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A devil will be a friend on a journey, two devils will be friends with two travelers, and three passengers will be considered a caravan.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Jihâd: 79) The hadith of Ibn Omar is hasan authentic, but we know it in this form through Asım's narration. Asim; Muhammed b. Zayd b. Abdullah b. He is the son of Ömer. Muhammad says: This person is a reliable and truthful person. Asim b. Omar al-Umeri is weak, I do not narrate anything from him as a hadith. Abdullah b. The hadith of Amr is hasan.
1776-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "War consists of deception, deception and deception." (Bukhari, Jihad: 156; Ibn Mâce, Jihad: 28) Ali, Zayd b. Sabit, Aisha, Ibn Abbas, Abu Huraira, Esma bint Yazid b. Seken, Ka'b b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik and Anas. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1777-) According to the narration from Abu Ishaq (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Zayd b. I was with Arkam and I was asked how many battles the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) participated in. Zayd said nineteen. Then I said: How many battles did you fight with him? Said. He said seventeen. I said what was the first war you participated in. He said “Zat-ul-Ushayr” or “Zat-ul-Ushayr”. (Bukhari, Maghazi: 91; Muslim, Jihad: 49) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1778-) Abdurrahman b. According to what was narrated from Awf (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) put us in the position of fighting at night in the battle of Badr." (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also reported from Abu Ayyub on this subject. This hadith is garib. We only know it in this way.Muhammed b. I asked Ismail about this hadith; did not know and Muhammad b. Ishaq said he heard a hadith from Ikrima. Muhammed b. When I first saw Ismail, Muhammad b. Humayd er Razi had a good opinion about him, but later he came to the conclusion that he was weak.
1779-) According to a narration from Ibn Abi Awfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) curse the opposing forces in the Battle of the Trench: Shake and devastate these enemy forces that are attacking us.” (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 39; Muslim, Jihad: 7) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Mas'ud on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic.
1780-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) conquered Mecca and entered there, his banner was white. (Ebû Dâvûd, Jihâd: 27; İbn Mâce, Jihâd: 17) This hadith is strange and only Yahya b. We know from the narration of Adam from Sharik. I asked Muhammad about this hadith. Only Yahya b. He knew it as a narration of Adam from Sharik and said: Many narrators reported from Sharik, Ammar, Abu'z Zubayr and Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered Mecca with a black turban on his head. Muhammad says: This is the hadith of Jabir. Ed Dühnü is a branch of the Becile tribe. Ammar ed Dühni; Ammar b. He is Muaviye ed Dühni and is known as Abu Muaviye. He is a trusted person with hadith scholars.
1781-) Muhammed b. Kasim's freed slave Yunus b. According to what is reported from Ubayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: Muhammad b. Qasim sent me to Bara b. He sent it to Âzib. Berâ said: “It was black and four-cornered, made of Nemire cloth.” (Ibn Majah, Jihad: 20; Abu Dâvûd, Jihad: 69) Ali, Haris b. Hadith was also narrated from Hassan and Ibn Abbas. This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only as the narration of Ibn Abi Zaideh. Abu Yakup es Sekafi's name is Ishaq b. Abraham. Ubeydullah b. Musa narrated hadith from him.
1782-) According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The flag of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was black and his banner was white.” (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 69) As the hadith of Ibn Abbas, this hadith is hasan garib in this respect.
1783-) Mühelleb b. It was narrated from Abi Sufre (radiyallahu anh). A companion heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "If the enemy comes among you by taking advantage of the darkness of night, say "Hamîm la yunsarun". (Ebû Dâvûd, Jihâd: 71) In this regard, Salama b. Hadith was also narrated from Ekwa. Some narrated this hadith from Abu Ishaq like the narration of Thawri. Again, this hadith is from Abu Ishaq, Mühelleb b. It was also narrated as mursal through Ebi Sufra.
1784-) According to the narration from Ibn Sirin (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I used my sword from Samura b. I had it made similar to Jundup's sword. He was of the opinion that Samura had his own sword made similar to the sword of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The sword of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was like the swords of the Banu Hanif tribe, where the most beautiful swords were made at that time. (Ibn Majah: Jihad: 18) This hadith is strange. We know this hadith only in this way. Yahya b. Said el Kattan clerk Osman b. Talking about Sa'd, he said that he was weak in memory.
1785-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: When we arrived in Marruz Zahran, he informed us that we would encounter the enemy and ordered us to break our fast, so we broke our fast together.” (Abu Dawud, Siamese: 43; Muslim, Siamese: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith was also narrated from Umar on the subject.
1786-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh); He rode Abu Talha's horse called Mandub” and continued his words as follows: “We used to always find the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) at the forefront in a fearful moment of war.” (Muslim, Fedail: 11) A hadith was also narrated from Ibn Amr Ibn As on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic.
1787-) Enes b. According to what was reported from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “There was a fearful moment in Medina that there might be an enemy raid. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) borrowed a horse called Mandub and went around saying that there is nothing to be afraid of." In any case, when we faced a fearful situation, we always found our Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) at the forefront. (Muslim, Fedail: 11) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1788-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was the bravest, most generous and bravest of people.” Anas says: One night, the people of Medina heard a voice and were afraid. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood before the people, wielding his sword on a naked horse belonging to Abu Talha, and said: “Do not be afraid at all, do not be afraid at all.” (Muslim, Fedail: 11)
1789-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “A man, Barâ b. He said to Azib, O Abu Umara. Did you leave the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) alone in the battle of Hunayn and run away? Bara said: No, by Allah, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not retreat, but some soldiers, who were faced with the arrows of Havazin, quickly turned and fled. Meanwhile, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was on his mule and Abu Sufyan b. Haris b. Abdulmuttalib was holding a mule's bridle, and at that moment the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was saying: "I am the Prophet, there is no lie, I am Abdulmuttalib's grandson." (Muslim Jihad, 28; Bukhari, Jihad: 32) Hadith was also reported from Ali and Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic.
1790-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: I saw the people on the battlefield on the day of Hunayn, two companies retreated and fled. There were not even a hundred people left around the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Muslim, Jihad: 28) This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith of Ubeydullah only in this way.
1791-) According to what is reported from Mazîde (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The hilt of the sword that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used when he entered Mecca on the day of the Conquest was decorated with gold and silver. Talib, the narrator of the hadith, says: I asked about the silver on the sword, he said, the head of the sword hilt was made of silver. (Bukhari, Jihad: 82; Abu Dâvûd: Jihâd: 64) A hadith was also reported from Enes on this subject. The hadith is hasan garib. Hud's grandfather's name is Mezidetül Asari.
1792-) According to a narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The hilt of the sword of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was made of silver. (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 64) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was also reported from Qatada and Anas through Hemmâm. Some say this hadith from Said b. They narrate from Abu'l Hasan, who says: "The head of the hilt of the sword of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was made of silver."
1793-) Zubayr b. According to the narration from Avvam (radiyallahu anh), he said: On the day of the Battle of Uhud, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was wearing two armors. Then he wanted to climb a rock. He couldn't afford it because of the weight of the armors. Finally Talha crouched down and acted as a step. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stepped on it and got up on the rock. Zubayr says: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said; I heard him say that Talha deserves Paradise. (Ebû Dâvûd, Jihâd: 68; İbn Mâce: Jihâd: 18) Safwan b. Ümayye, Sâib b. Hadith was also narrated from Yazid. The hadith is hasen garib and only Muhammad b. We know from the narration of Ishaq.
1794-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered Mecca in the year of conquest with a helmet on his head. Meanwhile, he was informed that Ibn Khatal had stuck to the covers of the Ka'ba. He said, "Kill him". (Ibn Majah, Jihad: 18; Bukhari, Jihad: 84) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. We do not know that anyone other than Malik narrated this hadith from Zuhri.
1795-) According to the narration from Urve al-Bariqi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “No; tied to the foreheads of horses until the end of time. In other words, all kinds of booty and rewards.” (Ibn Majah, Jihad: 14; Abu Dawud: Jihad: 42) Ibn Omar, Abu Said, Cerir, Abu Huraira, Esma bint Yazid, Mughire b. Hadith was also narrated from Shu'ba and Jabir. This hadith is hasan authentic. Urve: He is the son of Ebû'l Ca'd el Bârıkî, named after Urve b. It is also called Ca'd. b. Hanbal says: What should be understood from this hadith: "Jihad must be continued with the heads of state until the Day of Judgment."
1796-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Red colored horses are the fruitful ones." (Ebû Dâvûd, Jihâd: 42) This hadith is hasan garib and we know it as such only through the narration of Shayban.
1797-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The best of horses are those that are black, with a white forehead and a white nose and upper lip. Then they are black horses with white feet and a plain color on the right side. If this feature cannot be found, it is the right horse with these features.” (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 42)
1798-) Muhammed b. Beşşar (radiy-Allâhu anh), Vehb b. Yahya b. Eyyub, Yazid b. He narrated a similar hadith in terms of meaning with the same deed from Abi Habib. This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
1799-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not like horses with white legs on all fours.” (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 43) This hadith is hasan authentic. Shu'ba reported this hadith from Abdullah b. He narrated from Yazid al Has'ami, Abu Zur'a, Abu Huraira in a similar way. Ebû Zür'a b. Amr b. Cerir's name is Harim. b. Humayd er Razi, through Cerir Umâra b. Narrated by Ka'ka, he said: Ibrahim Nahai said to me: If you are going to give me a hadith, quote it from Abu Zur, because Abu Zur once told me a hadith. Years later, when I asked him about that hadith, he quoted it to me again without missing any of its letters.
1800-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) raced a trained and well-trained horse from Haifa to Saniyyet-ül Veda, which was six miles in distance. He raced the untrained horse from Seniyyetül Veda, which was a mile apart, to the mosque of the sons of Zureyk. I was among the racers. My horse had jumped the wall. (Ebû Dâvûd, Jihâd: 60; Ibn Mâce: Jihâd: 44) Hadiths were also narrated from Abu Hurayra, Jabir, Aisha and Enes on this subject. This hadith is sahih hasan garib as the narration of As-Sawri.
1801-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Competition makes horses and camels run around, and shoots arrows and similar things. (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 60) This hadith is hasan.
1802-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was a servant appointed by Allah, and he recommended three things to us, apart from other people, to our Ahl al-Bayt: To perform ablution well, to give alms. He ordered us not to eat and not to pull donkeys onto horses.” (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 53) A hadith was also narrated from Ali on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic. Sufyan as-Sevri narrated this hadith from Abu Jahdam in his deed: “Ubeydullah b. Abdullah b. Abbas said, “From Ibn Abbas”. Heard from Muhammad, he was saying that the narration of Sevri is not very solid. Sevri fell into delusion in this narration. The authentic narration is İsmail b. Uleyye and Abdulvaris b. Said'in, from Abu Cehdam, Abdullah b. Ubeydullah b. It is narrated from Abbas and Ibn Abbas.
1803-) According to the narration from Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Search for me among your weak orphans, and you will find me only with them, because you You are provided with sustenance and help from Allah because of the poor and weak people.” (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 70) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1804-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Angels do not associate with communities with rattles and dogs.” (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 46) A hadith was also narrated on this subject from Omar, Aisha and Umm Salama. The hadith is hasan authentic.
1805-) According to the narration from Barâ (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent two armies. One of them was Ali b. Ebî Tâlib to the other, Halid b. He appointed Walid as the commander and said: If the war takes place, Ali is the commander-in-chief. Finally, Ali conquered a castle and took a concubine from the spoils obtained. Thereupon, Khalid b. By sending a letter with me, Walid exposed this move of Ali. When I came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) I gave the letter, he read it, his color changed and he said: "Loving Allah and His Messenger; What do you think about a person whom Allah and His Messenger love too? Me too; “I seek refuge in Allah from the wrath of Allah and the anger of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). When he said, "I am only a messenger," the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) remained silent and his anger subsided. (Abu Dawud, Haraç: 5) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Umar on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib, and this hadith was transmitted only by Ahvas b. We know from the narration of Cevvab. The meaning of the word "Yeshi bihi" in the hadith means snooping and spying.
1806-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Beware! You are all shepherds, all of you are responsible for your flock. The head of state, who undertakes the administration of the people, is a shepherd and is responsible for his people. The man is the shepherd of his household and is responsible for his offspring. A woman is a shepherd in her husband's house. She is responsible for her husband's house. A slave is a shepherd on his master's property, and that slave is responsible for that property. Be careful? You are all shepherds, all of you are responsible for your own flock. (Abu Dâvûd, Haraj: 1) A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Huraira, Anas, and Abu Musa on this subject. The hadith of Abu Musa is not very acceptable. The hadith of Enes is also not very acceptable. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic.
1807-) Ibrahim b. Beşşar er Ramâdî, Sûfyan b. From Uyeyne, Bureyd b. Abdullah b. He narrated this hadith to us from Abu Burda and Abu Musa. In this way, Ibn Bashar reported and said: Many people have narrated this hadith from Sufyan, Burayd, Abu Burda as a mursal and this is more authentic. says: Ishaq b. İbrahim, Muâz b. He narrated from Hisham, his father, Qatada, and Anas: "Allah will ask every shepherd about the flock he wishes to herd." I heard from Muhammad saying: This narration is not very acceptable. The authentic narration: Muâz b. It is a mursal narration from Hisham's father, Qatada and Hasan.
1808-) According to the narration from Ummul Husayn al-Ahmasiyya (radiyallahu anha), she said: I listened to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in his farewell sermon while he was covered with a kind of striped fabric that he wore by wrapping it under his arm. It was as if I was looking at his trembling biceps while he was talking, and he said: “O people, be conscious of Allah and try to find your way with a book. Even if an Abyssinian slave with a cut off ear is brought over you, listen to and obey the orders of Allah as long as he acts according to the book of Allah and applies it to you.” (Muslim, Imara: 13) Abu Huraira, Irbad b. A hadith was also narrated from Sariye. This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Umm Husayn in different ways.
1809-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "It is obligatory for every Muslim to listen to and obey the ruler in every matter, whether he likes it or not, unless he is ordered to rebel. If he is ordered to rebel, he has no obligation to obey or listen.” (Muslim, Imara: 16) Ali, Imran b. Husayn, Referee b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr al-Gifari. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1810-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade animals to fight each other.” (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 51)
1811-) According to the narration from Mujahid (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade making animals fight each other, not saying “from Ibn Abbas” in this hadith. It has been said that this narration is more authentic than the Qutayba narration.
1812-) Sharik narrated the same hadith similarly from Â'mash, Mujahid and Ibn Abbas, but did not say "from Abu Yayha". In this way, Abu Kurayb; Yahya b. He narrated from Adam and Sharik. Abu Muawiya; He narrated a similar one from A'mesh, Mujahid. Abu Yahya = Atat al Kufi. It is also said that his name is Zazan. In this regard, Talha, Jabir, Abu Said and Ikras b. A hadith was also narrated from Zueyb.
1813-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade stamping on the face.” (Muslim, Libas: 29) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1814-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "When I was fourteen, I was shown to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to join an army, and he did not accept me as a soldier. The next year, when I was fifteen, I was shown again; He accepted me as a soldier. Nafi' says: This hadith was narrated by Umar b. I transferred it to Abdulaziz. He said: "This is the age limit between young and old," he said. (Abu Dawud, Haraj: 15)
1815-) Ibn Abi Omar, Sufyan b. He narrated a similar hadith to us through Ubaydullah in terms of meaning from Ubaydullah, and he narrated a similar hadith to us in this narration: “Umar b. Abdulaziz; "This is the age limit for those who will join the war," he said. He did not mention the issue of salary bonding. Ishaq b. The hadith of Yusuf is hasan sahih garib as the narration of Sufyan as-Tevri.
1816-) According to the narration from the father of Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got up one day among his Companions and talked about jihad and belief in Allah as the most valuable of deeds. Meanwhile, a man said: O Messenger of Allah. If I die as a martyr in the way of Allah, will it be expiation for my sins? Say what? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "If you fight in the way of Allah with patience and resilience by advancing to the enemy ranks and become a martyr, yes, it will be expiation for your sins." Then how did you say to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)? Said. If I am martyred while that person is fighting in the way of Allah by repeating his question, will it be atonement for my sins? When you say what's your opinion, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Yes, if you fight and die by advancing on the enemy with patience and resistance, waiting for your reward only from Allah, without fleeing from the battle, yes, all your sins will be atonement, except the debt. That's how Jibril told me." (Dârimî Jihâd: 21; Nesâî, Jihâd: 31) In this regard, Enes, Muhammed b. Hadith was also narrated from Jahsh and Abu Huraira. The hadith is hasan authentic. Some have narrated this hadith from Said al-Makburi and Abu Huraira in a similar way. Yahya b. Said al-Ansari and many others reported the same hadith from Abdullah b. He narrated it from Abi Qatada and his father, and this narration is more authentic than Said al Makburi's narration from Abu Huraira.
1817-) Hisham b. According to the narration from Amir (radiyallahu anh), he said: The soldiers who were wounded in the war on the graves to be dug for the martyrs after the Battle of Uhud complained to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) because of the difficulty of digging the graves; Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Dig the grave wide and beautifully, bury two or three people in a grave, and put those who know the Qur'an best while burying them. My father was also martyred in this war, and he was put in front of two people in a grave. (Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 26; Ibn Mâce: Cenaiz: 28) Hadiths on this subject were also narrated from Habbab, Jabir and Enes. The hadith is hasan authentic. es Sevrî and others reported this hadith from Ayyub, Humayd b. Hilal, Hisham b. They narrated from Amir. Dehma's name is Kırfe b. It is Büheys or Beyhes.
1818-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the captives were taken after the Battle of Badr, what would the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say about these captives? He commanded. The hadith is long. (Musnad: 3452) A hadith has also been reported from Omar, Abu Ayyub, Anas and Abu Hurayra. The hadith is hasan. Abu Ubayda did not hear hadith from his father. Abu Huraira is reported to have said: "I have never seen anyone consult with his friends more than the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)."
1819-) It was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The polytheists wanted to buy the body of a person who was killed from among them. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) refused to sell the body to them.” (Musnad: 2119) This hadith is strange and we know it only through the narration of the referee. Haccac b. Ertae also narrated this hadith from Hakam. b. Hanbal says: This hadith of Ibn Abi Layla is not evidence. Muhammed b. Ismail says: Ibn Abi Layla is a righteous person. However, he cannot distinguish the sound hadith from the rotten ones, I do not narrate anything from him. b. Ali, Abdullah b. Narrated by Sufyan as-Tevri through Davud, he told us: Our jurists Ibn Abi Leyla and Abdullah b. It is Thanksgiving.
1820-) It was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent us as a detachment. Then we were all defeated, and we were in a state of disarray. Returning to Medina, we hid and said we were ruined. Then we came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah, we are the ones fleeing from war. I am also a soldier from the Muslim union.” (Abu Dawud: Jihad: 96) This hadith is hasan. Only Yazid b. We know it from the narration of Ebî Ziyâd. The meaning of the phrase "The detachment was scattered" in the hadith means that they fled from the war in fright. “Akkararun” means those who retreat to join another unit and continue the war, it does not mean those who “run away from the war”.
1821-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: After the Battle of Uhud, my aunt brought my father to a place that was like our family cemetery to bury him. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) declared: "Bring the martyrs back to the place where they were killed." (Ibn Majah: Cenaiz: 28) This hadith is hasan authentic. He is a trusted person.
1822-) Sâib b. It was narrated from Yazid (radiyallahu anh). “When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) returned from the Tabuk expedition, the Muslims went up to the place called Sanayyetül Veda to meet the army. I went out with the people, and I was a kid then.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 195) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1823-) Malik b. Evs b. According to the narration from Hadesan (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar b. I heard from Khattab that he was saying: The property of the sons of Nadro was one of the spoils that Allah gave to his prophet without a fight and that the Muslims did not make horses or camels run for their sake. Therefore, it belonged only to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to spare his family's needs for a year from such spoils, and spend the rest on guns and weapons for the war in the way of Allah. (Nesâî, Kasmûl Fey: 1; Muslim, Jihâd: 15) This hadith is hasan sahih. This hadith was reported by Sufyan b. It was narrated from Uyeyna, Ma'mar and Ibn Shihab.
1824-) According to the narration from Abu Musa al-Ashari (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Wearing silk clothes and using gold are forbidden for the men of my ummah, but permissible for the women." (Muslim, Libas: 2; Nesai, Ziyne: 86) Ömer, Ali, Ukbe b. Amir, Enes, Huzeyfe, Umm Hani, Abdullah b. Amr, Imran b. Husayn, Abdullah b. Zubayr, Jabir, Abu Reyhan, Ibn Omar, Vasile b. A hadith was also reported from Eska. The hadith of Abu Musa is hasan authentic.
1825-) It was narrated from Omar (radiyallahu anh). Omar said in a sermon he gave in Cabiye: “The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) made silk unlawful for men. However, if it is as thick as two or three fingers in a dress, it is allowed.” (Nesai, Ziyne: 84; Muslim, Libas: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1826-) According to what is narrated from Enes (radiy-Allâhu anh): Abdurrahman b. Avf, Zübeyr b. Avvam complained of lice on their bodies in a war they were with. He then allowed them to wear silk shirts. Enes: I saw the silk shirt on the backs of both of them. (Nesai, Ziyne: 93; Ibn Majah: Libas: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1827-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Muâz (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Enes b. When Malik came back from a trip, I went to visit him, he asked, "Who are you?" Me too; Vakid b. Amr b. Sa'd b. I said I am Muâz. Then he wept and said: You are very similar to your grandfather Sa'd. Sa'd was one of the tallest and most massive people. He sent a robe of gold embroidered cloth to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wore it and climbed the pulpit, either standing or sitting. People began to hold that robe with their hands and look at it and said: We have never seen such a beautiful and precious dress. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Are you surprised by this dress? A simple handkerchief of Sa'd in Paradise is better and better than this dress you see. (Nesai, Ziyne: 89) A hadith was also narrated from Esma bint ebî Bakr on this subject. This hadith is authentic.
1828-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I have never seen anyone more beautiful than the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in a red dress. His hair was up to his shoulders, it was wide between the two shoulders, and his height was neither long nor short.” (Nesâî, Ziyne: 94; Abu Dâvûd, Libas: 17) In this regard, Câbir b. Hadith was also narrated from Samura, Abu Rimsa and Abu Juhayfa. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1829-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade wearing a dress made of a fabric containing a mixture of silk and a yellowish-reddish fabric.” (Nesâî, Ziyne: 30; Muslim, Libas: 4) Enes, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Ali is hasan authentic.
1830-) According to what is reported from Salman (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about the ruling on wearing clothes made of oil, cheese and animal skins, and he said: Halal is what Allah has made lawful in His book. Haram too; They are also things that Allah has forbidden in His book. The things that he does not specify are the things that he forgives and makes permissible.” (Ibn Majah, Et'ime: 60) A hadith was also reported from Mughira on this subject. This hadith is garib. As Merfu, we only know it in this way. and others have narrated it from Sulayman et Taymi, Abu Osman, Salman and as Salman's word. It is like a hadith. That is what is true. I asked Bukhari about this hadith and he said: I don't see it as sound. Sufyan narrated from Süleyman et Taymi, Abu Osman and Salman as mawkuf. Bukhari says: Seyf b. Aaron is a middle way person. Sayf b. Muhammad, on the other hand, is a person whose hadiths are weak.
1831-) Ata b. According to the narration from Ebî Rebah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he was saying: A sheep had died. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to the owners of the sheep: “Will you not skin it, then tan it and remove it from it?” you will benefit.” (Nesâî, Fera and Atîre: 4; Abu Dâvûd, Libas: 38)
1832-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Any skin that is tanned will definitely be cleaned." (Abu Dawud, Libas: 38) the practice of the majority of his men is according to this hadith and they say the following about dead animal skins: "When those skins are tanned, they become clean." Shafi'i says, "Every dead animal skin that is tanned except dog and pig skin will be clean, and he cites this hadith as evidence. Some scholars from the Companions of (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and others; they do not welcome the use of predator skins, even if tanned. Abdullah b. Mubarak, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them, and they are strict about wearing clothes made of these leathers and praying with them. b. Ibrahim says: The meaning of the saying of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) that whatever leather is tanned is considered clean is about the skins of animals whose flesh is eaten. Nadr b. Şümeyl also interprets the hadith in the same way. Ishaq and Nadr b. Şümeyl: They say that "İhâb" is the name given to the skin of an animal whose meat is eaten. In this regard, Salama b. Hadiths were also narrated from Muhabbik, Maymuna and Aisha. The hadith of Abbas is hasan authentic. This hadith was narrated from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in different ways through Ibn Abbas. It was narrated from Ibn Abbas and Maymuna. It is also narrated from Ibn Abbas and Sawda. I heard: Ibn 'Abbas said that the hadith and the hadith narrated by Ibn 'Abbas from Maimunah were authentic and continued as follows: Ibn Abbas also directly related this hadith from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and did not state that he received it from Maymuna. The opinion of the majority of scholars is according to this hadith, and Sufyan as-Sevri, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Shafii, Ahmed and Ishaq are among them.
1833-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Ukeym (radiyallahu anh), he said: "We received a letter from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saying that we should not take advantage of the skin and nerves of a dead animal." (Ibn Majah, Libas: 26) This hadith is hasan. Hadith Abdullah b. It is also reported from his sheikhs through Ukeyn. Most of the scholars did not apply this hadith. At the same time, this hadith is from Abadullah b. It was also reported from Ukaym: He said: "Two months before his death, we received a letter from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him)." Ahmed b. I heard Hasan say: Ahmad b. Hanbal's practice is according to this hadith since it is said "two months before his death" and he used to say that this was the last order of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Later, when he saw the complexity in the hadith, he abandoned this hadith as follows: Some people in the hadith: "Abdullah b. They said, “From Ukeym and from the Sheikhs of Juheyna”.
1834-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Allah will not look at the person who drags the hem of his clothes on the ground out of arrogance and arrogance. (Ebû Dâvûd, Libas: 27; Nesâî, Ziyne: 102) On this subject, Huzeyfe, Ebû Said, Ebû Hüreyre, Samure, Ebû Zerr, Aisha, Hubeyb b. A hadith has also been reported from Mughaffel. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic.
1835-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever is arrogant and drags the hem of his clothes on the ground, Allah will not look at him on the Day of Judgment." Thereupon, Umm Salama said: "How should women make their skirts?" The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Let them drop a span." Umm Salama said: "In this case, when they say that their feet are open, they should lower it as long as one cubit, and not do it any more." (Abu Dawud: Libas: 37; Nesai, Ziyne: 106) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1836-) Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha) informed us that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) arranged the part of Fatima’s dress hanging down from her calf to be one span. (Nesai, Ziyne: 106) Some people refer to this hadith as Hammad b. From Salama, Ali b. They narrated from Zayd, Hasan, his father, Umm Salama. In this hadith, women are allowed to drag their clothes. Because that way they are better covered.
1837-) According to the narration from Abu Burda (radiy-Allâhu anh), she said: “Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) took out a worn-out dress and a dress made of coarse fabric and said: These two garments are the spirit of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). It was received while in it.” (Abu Dawud, Libas: 5) A hadith was also reported from Ali and Ibn Mas'ud on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic.
1838-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The day his Lord spoke to him, Moses was wearing a woolen robe, a woolen cap, a woolen robe, and a woolen shalwar. . His shoes were made of the skin of a dead donkey.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We know this hadith only from the narration of Humayd from A'rec. He is the son of Humayd Ali and is from Kufa. I heard from Muhammad, he was saying: Humayd b. The hadiths of Ali al A'rec are munkar and not taken much credit. Humayd b. Ali el A'rec el Mekki is a friend of Mujahid and a trusted person. means small cone.
1839-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) entered Mecca with a black turban on his head on the day of the conquest of Mecca. (Abu Dâvûd, Libas: 21; Nesai, Ziyne: 110) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ali, Omar, Ibn Hureys, Ibn Abbas and Rukana. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound.
1840-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wrapped a turban, he hung the end of the turban between his two shoulders. Ubeydullah: I saw that Qasim and Salim did the same.” (Nesai, Ziyne: 111; Abu Dâvûd, Libas: 21) This hadith is hasan garib. A hadith has also been narrated from Ali on this subject. Ali's hadith on this subject is not authentic in terms of the hadith.
1841-) Ali b. It was narrated from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh). “The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade me to wear gold rings, to wear silk blended fabric, to recite the Qur'an in bowing and prostration, and to wear clothes dyed reddish yellow. (Abu Dawud, Libas: 8; Nesai, Ziyne: 78) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1842-) According to the narration from Hafs al-Leysi (radiyallahu anh), he said: Imran b. I testify that Husayn told us the following hadith: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade us to use gold rings." (Nesai, Ziyne: 78) Hadiths on this subject were also narrated from Ali, Ibn Omar, Abu Huraira and Muawiya. The hadith of Imran is hasan. Ebû't Tayyah's name is Yazîd b. Humayd.
1843-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The ring of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used as a seal was made of silver, and the eyebrow of the ring was made of Abyssinian stone." (Nesai, Ziyne: 79; Abu Dâvûd, Hatem: 1) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar and Burayda on this subject. As such, this hadith is hasan sahih garib.
1844-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The ring of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was made of silver and his eyebrow was made of silver." (Abu Dawud, Hatem:1) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is.
1845-) According to the narration from Ibn Omar (radiyallahu anh): “The Prophet (pbuh) had a gold ring made and put it on his right hand. Then he came out and sat on the pulpit and said: "I had this ring made to wear on my right hand, and the Companions threw away their rings." (Nesai, Ziyne: 79) Ali, Câbir, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Cafer, Ibn Abbas, Aisha and Anas. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. This hadith was narrated from Ibn Umar through Nafi' in different ways in a similar way, and it is not mentioned that he wears it on his right hand.
1846-) Salt b. Abdullah b. According to the narration from Nawfal (radiyallahu anh), he said: I saw Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh) wearing a ring on his right hand, and I remember well that he said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wearing the ring on his right hand. (Nesai, Hatem: 5) Muhammed b. Ismail: Muhammed b. Ishaq's Salt b. Abdullah b. The hadith he narrated from Nawfal is hasan sahih.
1847-) Cafer b. According to a narration from the father of Muhammad (radiyallahu anh), Hasan and Husayn used to wear their rings on their left hands. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is hasan sound.
1848-) Hammad b. According to the narration from Salama (radiyallahu anh), he said: Ibn Abi Rafi (This person is Ubaydullah ibn Abi Rafi and is the freed slave of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). His name is Abu Rafi from Eslam.) When I asked him why he was wearing it, he said: "Abdullah b. I saw Cafer wearing a ring on his right hand. Abdullah b. Jafar said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to wear a ring on his right hand." (Ebû Dâvûd, Hatem: 5) b. Ismail says: This is the soundest hadith reported on this subject.
1849-) Enes b. According to what is reported from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had a silver ring made and had the words of Muhammad-Rasûl-Allah engraved on it, and he said not to have them engraved on your rings.” (Abu Dâvûd, Hatem: 1; Nesai, Ziyne: 52) This hadith is sound hasan. The meaning of the word "Don't have them imprinted" means: No one should have the word of Muhammad Rasulullah engraved on their own ring.
1850-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would go to the toilet to break his wudu, he would take off his ring because of the writing on his seal.” (Nesai, Ziyne: 54) This hadith is hasan garib.
1851-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The inscription on the ring of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was three lines; “Muhammad” was one line, “Rasul” was one line, “Allah” was one line.” (Abu Dawud, Hatem: 1) The hadith of Anas is hasan sahih.
1852-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The inscription on the seal of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was three lines, “Muhammad” one line “Rasul” one line “Allah” one line. (Ebû Dâvûd, Hatem: 1) b. Yahya did not say "it was three lines" in his narration. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Umar on the subject.
1853-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He forbade Muslims from having and making pictures wherever people are.” (Nesai, Ziyne: 112; Abu Dâvûd, Libas: 45) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ali, Abu Talha, Aisha, Abu Huraira and Abu Ayyub. The hadith of Jabir is hasan sound.
1854-) Ubeydullah b. Abdullah b. It was narrated from Utbe (radiyallahu anh). Ubeydullah went to visit Abu Talha al-Ansari, who was sick. Ubeydullah says: Sahl b. I found Hunayf with him. Ubeydullah continued: Abu Talha called someone to take off the bed sheet under him, Sahl said why are you taking it off. Abu Talha said: There are pictures on it, you know what the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about it. Sahl: "Didn't he say that the embroidery and lines on the fabric are exceptional? When you say; Abu Talha said yes. But I like it better to remove this sheet,” he said. (Nesai, Ziyne: 112) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1855-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever paints a picture, he will be punished until Allah blows the spirit into the picture he has made, that is, until he brings that picture alive. will. It really is not strong enough to give a soul to that painting. Whoever listens to the talk of a society that is distant from him and shy away from him will have lead in his ear on the Day of Judgment.” (Nesai, Ziyne: 114) In this regard, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Mas'ud, Abu Huraira, Abu Juhayfe, Aisha and Ibn Omar. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan authentic.
1856-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Change the color of your white hair and beard by dyeing it with henna, and do not look like Jews by leaving it white.” (Nesai, Ziyne: 65; Ebû Dâvûd, Teaccül: 18) Zübeyr b. Avvam, Ibn Abbas, Jabir, Abu Dharr, Enes, Abu Rimse, Cehdeme, Abu-t Tufeyl, Jabir b. Hadith was also narrated from Samura, Abu Juhayfa and Ibn Omar. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic. This hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways.
1857-) It was narrated from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: We will change the color of your gray hair. The best dye is henna and Ketm (rastım). (Nesai, Ziyne: 65; Abu Dâvûd: Teraccül: 18) This hadith is hasan authentic. Esved ed Deylemî's name is Zâlim b. Amr b. He is Sufyan.
1858-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was neither tall nor short; he was of medium height. Her body was balanced and beautiful, her color was dark brown. His hair was neither very curly nor straight, that is, medium curly. (Nesâî, Ziyne: 60) Aisha, Barâ, Abu Huraira, Ibn Abbas, Abu Said, Câbir, Vâil b. Hadith was also narrated from Hujr and Umm Hani. The hadith of Anas, as the narration of Humayd, is hasan sahih from this aspect.
1859-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and I used to take a bath from a vessel. Her hair was not long enough to fall below the earlobe and over the shoulder.” (Nesai, Ziyne: 60) This hadith is hasan sahih in its form. This hadith is also narrated from Aisha in different ways, and she says: "Me and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to bathe in a single vessel" and does not mention the length of her hair. b. Ebi'z Zinad was a reliable person and would consider him sound and ordered to write hadiths from him.
1860-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mugaffel (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade combing the hair and beard too often in order to avoid excessive adornment and showing off.” (Nesai, Ziyne: 63)
1861-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Yahya b. He narrated a similar hadith from Hisham and Hasan through Said with this deed. This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith has also been narrated from Anas on this subject.
1862-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Apply with a ruber called Ismid, because it polishes the eyes and nourishes the eyelashes.” He said that the Prophet 'Abbas (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) had a litter box, and that he used rubbing cream three times a night on his right eye and three times on his left eye. (Nesai, Ziyne: 28) A hadith was also reported from Jabir and Ibn Omar on this subject. The hadith of Ibn Abbas is hasan garib. With these words, only Abbas b. We know from the narration of Mansur.
1863-) Ali b. Hucr and Muhammed b. Yahya said: Yazid b. Harun, Abbad b. He narrated a similar hadith from Mansur to us. From another aspect, it was narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Ismid = use a cobblestone because it polishes the eyes and nourishes the eyelashes."
1864-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade two types of clothing; 1- He forbade being obscene by wearing a useless dress such as a sleeveless and pocketless overalls called Samma, 2- Wearing a one-layer dress that shows the organs of the body.” (Nesai, Ziyne: 108; Bukhari, Libas: 21) Hadiths on this subject were also narrated from Ali, Ibn Omar, Aisha, Abu Said, Jabir and Abu Umame. The hadith of Hurayra is hasan sahih in this form. Again, this hadith was narrated from Abu Huraira in a different way.
1865-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "May Allah curse the person who has hair transplant, wears a wig, and gets tattooed, that is, removes him from His mercy." (Ebû Dâvûd, Teraccül: 5; Nesâî, Ziyne: 22) says: He said that tattoos are done on the face and visible places. This hadith is hasan authentic. Aisha, Ibn Mas'ud, Esma bint ebî Bakr, Ibn Abbas, Ma'kil b. Hadith was also narrated from Yasar and Muawiya.
1866-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the use of mattresses and pillows, which are for luxury and show off." This hadith is quite long. (Ibn Majah, Libas: 45; Nesai, Ziyne: 119) A hadith was also reported from Ali and Muawiya on this subject. The hadith of barâ is hasan authentic. Esh'as b. Narrated by Ebish Sasa. This hadith is long.
1867-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The bed on which the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) slept was made of leather and the inside was made of date fiber. (Nesai, Ziyne: 119) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith has also been narrated from Hafsa and Jabir on this subject.
1868-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The dress that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) liked was a shirt. (Abu Dawud, Libas: 3; Bukhari, Libas: 8) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was only reported by Abdulmu'min b. We know from the narration of Khalid. Only he narrated this hadith. He is mervez. Some reported this hadith from Abu Sumayla to Abdulmumin b. Khalid, Abdullah b. It was narrated from Burayda, her mother and Umm Salama.
1869-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha), she said: "The most beloved clothing for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was a shirt." (Bukhari Libas: 8; Abu Dâvûd, Libas: 3) Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail that he was saying: Abdullah b. Burayda's narration from her mother and Umm Salama is more authentic. However, only Abu Suma mentions the record of the hadith from his "mother" in the hadith.
1870-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha), she said: "The most beloved clothing for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was a shirt." (Bukhari Libas: 8; Abu Dawud, Libas: 3)
1871-) Esma bint Yazid b. According to a narration from Sekan al-Ansariyya (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: “The length of the sleeve of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was up to his (new) wrist.” (Bukhari Libas: 8; Abu Dawud, Libas: 3) This hadith is hasan garib.
1872-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was going to wear a shirt, he would start on his right side." (Bukhari Libas: 8; Abu Dâvûd, Libas: 3) Many people have narrated this hadith from Shu'ba as a source from Abu Huraira. Only Abdussamet b. Abdulvaris narrated it through Shu'be.
1873-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wore a new dress, he wore it with a turban, etc. He would state his name and pray as follows: "Praise be to Allah, you made me wear this dress, I ask you to use this dress for good and I seek refuge in you from its use in evil and evil." (Abu Dawud, Libas: 1) A hadith was also reported from Umar and Ibn Umar on this subject.
1874-) Hisham b. Yunus el Kufi, Kasim b. He narrated a similar hadith to us through Malik al-Muzeni. The hadith hasan garib is authentic.
1875-) Mugîre b. According to the narration from the father of Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh): "The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) wore a Greek robe with narrow sleeves." (Bukhari, Libas: 10) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1876-) Muğîre b. It was narrated from Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh); “Dihya al-Kalbi gave a couple of mests to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wore it." (Tirmidhi narrated.) Israel, conveying from Amir via Jabir, said: “…and he gave a cloak as a gift, and wore both of them until they got old. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) wore a pair of mestins until they were old, without knowing whether they were made of the skin of an animal slaughtered according to Islamic methods, without researching it. The hadith is hasan garib. Isaac's name is Solomon. Hasan b. Ayyaş, Abu Bakr b. He is Ayyaş's brother.
1877-) Arfece b. According to the narration from As'ad (radiyallahu anh), he said: “I was injured in the case of Külab, which occurred during the Ignorance period, and my nose was cut. Then I had a silver nose made and it smelled bad. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered me to have a nose made of gold.” (Nesai, Ziyne: 41; Abu Davud, Hatem: 7)
1878-) Ali b. Hucr, Rabî' b. From Badr, Muhammed b. He narrated a similar hadith from Yazid al-Wasiti and Abu'l Ashhab. This hadith is hasan garib. Only Abdurrahman b. We know from the narration of Tarafe. Selm b. Zerîr reported this hadith by Abdurrahman b. He narrated from Tarefe like the narration of Abu'l Ashhab. It is narrated that many scholars had their teeth covered with gold. This hadith is proof for them. Abdurrahman b. Mahdi says: Salm b. It is a delusion to say "vizier", in fact, it is "Zerir". Said es San'ani's name is Muhammed b. Müyesser.
1879-) According to the narration from Abu'l Melih (radiy-Allâhu anh) and his father: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade the use of skins of predatory animals for upholstery.” (Abu Dawud, Libas: 40)
1880-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Yahya b. He narrated to us from Said, Qatada, and Abu'l Melih through Said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the use of skins of predatory animals as upholstery and clothing.
1881-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muâz b. My father passed it on to me through Hisham. Narrated by Abu'l Melih from Qatada, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not like the use of skins of predatory animals." Said b. In the deed of this hadith other than Abu Arube; We do not know whether he said "from Abu'l Melih and his father".
1882-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. Narrated by Cafer from Shu'ba, Yazid er Rishk, and Abu'l Melih, he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the use of the skins of predatory animals." This narration is more authentic.
1883-) According to the narration from Qatada (radiyallahu anh), he said: Enes b. How were the shoes of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) from Malik? I asked. He had two collars (eyebrows)," he said. (Abu Dawud, Libas: 41; Nesai, Ziyne: 117) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1884-) According to what is narrated from Enes (radiyallahu anh); “The shoes of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) had two leashes (eyebrows).” (Abu Dawud, Libas: 41; Nesai, Ziyne: 117) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas and Abu Huraira on this subject.
1885-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “None of you should walk with one shoe! Either walk with both feet on, or take off both feet.” (Abu Dâvûd, Libas: 41; Nesai, Ziyne: 118) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith has also been narrated from Jabir on this subject.
1886-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade a person to wear his shoes while standing." (Abu Dawud, Libas: 41) This hadith is hasan garib. Ubeydullah b. Amr er Raki narrated this hadith from Ma'mer, Qatada and Anas. Both hadiths are not authentic in the presence of hadith scholars. Because Harîs b. Nebhan; Hafiz is not accepted in the presence of hadith scholars. We do not know the origin of Qatada's narration from Anas.
1887-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade a person to wear his shoes while standing.” (Abu Dawud, Libas: 41) This hadith is strange. Muhammed b. Ismail says: This hadith is not authentic. Ma'mer'in Ammar b. The narration from Abu Ammar and Abu Huraira is also not authentic.
1888-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sometimes used to walk with only one shoe." (Abu Dawud, Libas: 40; Nesai, Ziyne: 118)
1889-) According to what is narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha): “She walked with only one shoe.” (Abu Dawud, Libas: 40; Nesai, Ziyne: 118) the narration is more authentic. Likewise, Sûfyan es Sevrî and others Abdurrahman b. al-Kasim as mawkuf, and this narration is more robust.
1890-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When you put on your shoes, start with the right side; when you take off your shoes, start with your left foot, so that the right foot is first when putting on the shoes, and last when taking off." (Abu Dawud, Libas: 41) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1891-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) reported that she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: “If you want to reach me in Paradise, let the little of a traveler from the world suffice for you, avoid being with rich people until you patch the clothes. don't count it obsolete." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Only Salih b. We know with the narration of Hassan. I heard him say: Salih b. Hassan's hadiths are munkar and not considered acceptable. Ibn Abi Zib narrated a hadith from Salih b. Abi Hassan is a trusted person. The meaning of the word "Beware of being with the rich" is narrated from Abu Hurayra: "If a person sees someone who is superior to him in creation and in sustenance, he should look at someone who is inferior to him and above him, so that this look is more appropriate so that he does not despise Allah's blessings." close to the hadith. b. According to a narration from Abdullah, he said: “I made friends with the rich, and I have never seen anyone sadder than myself. I see an animal superior to my animal, a dress superior to my dress. Then I became friends with the poor and relaxed. These two news stories explain in the best way that "you should not be with the rich".
1892-) Umm Hani (radiyallahu anha) reported that she said: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to Mecca, his hair was in four braids." (Ibn Mace, Libas: 36; Nesai, Ziyne: 10) This hadith is hasan garib. says: We do not know whether Mujahid heard a hadith from Umm Hani.
1893-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Abdurrahman b. Through the Mahdi Ibrahim b. Narrated by Nafi' al-Makki, Ibn Abi Najih, and Umm Hani, Mujahid, they said: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered Mecca, the braid of his hair was in four parts." Abu Necîh's name is Yesâr. This hadith is hasan garib. Abdullah b. Necîh; He is from Mecca.
1894-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Büşr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard Abu Kabsha al-Anmari say: “The sleeves (neck) of the clothes of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) were wide.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is munkar and is not welcomed. Abdullah b. Bushr; He is from Basra and is considered weak among hadith scholars. Yahya b. Said and other hadith scholars considered weak. “Buth” means wide.
1895-) According to the narration from Huzayfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) grasped the muscle of my shin or his own shin, and this is the place of the dress. If you do not accept this, it is a little lower. If you do not accept this, the dress has no right to the heels.” (Abu Dawud, Libas: 25; Bukhari, Libas: 5) This hadith is hasan sahih. Thawri and Shu'ba reported this hadith from Abu Ishaq.
1896-) It is narrated from Rukana (radiy-Allāhu anh): “Rukana had wrestled with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allāhu 'alaihi wa sallam), and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) brought his back to the ground.” Rukana said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) saying: The difference between us Muslims and polytheists is the turbans that are wrapped over their cones. (Abu Dawud, Libas: 21) This hadith is hasan garib. It's not very solid. We do not know Ebûl Hasan el Askalanî and Rukane's son very well.
1897-) According to the narration from Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh) and his father, a man came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with an iron ring on his finger: “Would I see the ornaments of people in Hell on you? ?” He commanded. On a later occasion, that person came with a copper ring in his hand. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Would I find the smell of idols in you?" The next time he came, he came with a gold ring on his finger; Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Would I see the ornaments of the inhabitants of Paradise on you?” They commanded. So, from which metal should I make the man ring? Said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Make it silver and do not make it as heavy as a miqqal, that is, not too big". (Bukhari, Libas: 46) This hadith is strange. In this regard, Abdullah b. Amr, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from a Muslim who was from Marwaz and was tagged as Abu Tiyba.
1898-) According to the narration from Ibn Abi Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard Ali say: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "I used to wear silk clothes, use a pillow as a means of arrogance, and use the ring as a testament to the middle finger. he forbade wearing it on his finger.” (Nesai, Ziyne: 80) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ibn Abi Musa, Ebû Bürde b. He is Abu Musa. His name is Amir b. Abdullah b. Kays.
1899-) According to what is reported from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The most beloved and pleasing clothes for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was a kind of striped cotton fabric woven in Yemen." (Abu Dawud, Libas: 12) This hadith is hasan sahih.
1900-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not eat on small and separate plates on wooden trays or tables with legs like a table. They didn't eat hash bread—or yufka bread—whose bran was separated from its flour.” Then I asked Qatade what they would eat on it, and Qatade said, "On those round leather tables." (Bukhari, Et'ime: 7) This hadith is hasan garib. b. Bashar says: Yunus mentioned in the scripture of this hadith; Yunus el Iskaf. Abdulvaris, Ibn Saîd reported this hadith from Said b. It was narrated from Abi Aruba, Qatada and Anas in a similar way.
1901-) Hisham b. Zayd b. According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard Anas (radiyallahu anh) say: "We frightened a rabbit in a place called Marruzzahran, and the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) ran after him, I caught him and caught him. I brought the rabbit to Abu Talha. He cut him off with a knife made of thinned stone and sent one of his legs or hips to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) with me. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) ate from it. Did I eat on that? said. Enes agreed and said seven.” (Bukhari, Grant: 4; Abu Dâvûd, Et'ime: 26; Muslim, Sayd: 9) On this subject, Câbir, Ammar, Muhammed b. A hadith was narrated from Safwan (also known as Muhammad b. Sayfi). The hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of the majority of the men is according to this hadith and they do not see any harm in eating rabbit meat. On the other hand, scientists do not tolerate the consumption of rabbit meat, since it is a menstruating animal.
1902-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked about the ruling on eating spleen; “I neither eat the lizard nor make it unlawful.” They commanded. (Muslim, Sayd: 7; Abu Davud, Et'ime: 27) In this regard, Ömer, Abu Said, Ibn Abbas, Sabit b. Vedia, Câbir, Abdurrahman b. A hadith was also narrated from Hasene. This hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars have put forward different opinions about the eating of lizards. While they allow the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) to eat some of his companions and others, others do not tolerate it. It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said: "The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) was eaten at his table, but the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not eat it because he did not like it."
1903-) According to the narration from Ibn Abi Ammar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: To Jabir, a hyena; Is it a hunting animal? I asked. He said yes. Can I eat its meat? Said. He said yes. I said: Did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say this? He said yes. (Ebû Dâvûd, Et'ime: 31; Nesai, Sayd: 27; İbn Mâce: Sayd: 15) This hadith is hasan authentic. According to this hadith, some scholars do not see any harm in eating hyena meat. Ahmed and Ishaq are among them. Although a hadith has been narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) that hyena meat is makruh, its evidence is not sound. Scientists do not tolerate eating hyena meat. Mubarak is one of them. b. Kattan says: Cerir b. Hazim reported this hadith from Abdullah b. Ubayd b. It is narrated from Umayr, Ibn Abi Ammar, Jabir and Umar as the word of Umar. The hadith of Ibn Jurayj is more authentic. Ibn Abi Ammar: Abdurrahman b. Abdullah b. Abu Ammar is from Mecca.
1904-) Huzeyme b. According to the narration from Cez' (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) the ruling on eating hyena meat, he said: “Does anyone eat hyena meat?” they ordered. Then I asked the verdict of eating wolf meat: "Do good people eat wolf meat?" they ordered. (Ibn Majah: Sayd: 14) The proof of this hadith is not sound. Only Ismail b. We know it as the narration of Muslim from Abdul Karim and Abu Umayya. Some hadith scholars talked about Ismail and Abdulkarim. Abu Umayya = Abdulkerim b. Kays b. Ebî'l Muharik. Abdulkerim b. Malik al-Cüzeri is a reliable person.
1905-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) fed us horse meat and forbade us to eat donkey meat." (Ibn Majah, Zebaih: 12; Nesai, Sayd: 29) A hadith was also reported from Esma bint Abu Bakr on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. Many people refer to this hadith as Amr b. They narrated from Jabir through Dinar. This hadith is related to Hammad b. Zayd, Amr b. From Dinar, Muhammed b. He narrated from Ali and Jabir. The narration of Ibn Uyayna is more authentic. I heard from Muhammad that he said: Sufyan b. Uyeyne Hammad b. He is more robust than Zayd in terms of memory.
1906-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade temporary marriage with women on the day of Khaybar and eating the meat of domestic donkeys." (Ibn Mâce:: Zebaih: 13; Nesâî, Sayd: 31)
1907-) Said b. Abdurrahman al Mahzûmî, through Sufyan, from Zuhri, from Abdullah and Hasan, both of whom are from Muhammad b. He is the son of al-Hanafiyya - he gave us hadith. b. Muhammad is known as Abu Hashim. says: Hasan b. is Mohammed. (He told with a similar expression.) Said b. Someone other than Abdurrahman, narrating from Ibn Uyeyna, says: The most acceptable of these two sons is Abdullah b. is Mohammed. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1908-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made it unlawful to eat any sharp-toothed animal that was killed as a target on the Day of Khyber, and to eat the meat of domestic donkeys.” (Ibn Mâce, Sayd: 13) Ali, Câbir, Berâ, İbn ebi Evfâ, Enes, Irbad b. Hadith was also narrated from Sariye, Abu Sa'lebe, Ibn Umar and Abu Said. This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Muhammad and others reported this hadith from Muhammad b. Narrated by Amr; They quoted it as banning only one subject: "Every sharp tooth from predatory animals".
1909-) According to the narration from Abu Sa'lebe (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about the condition of the pots and plates of the Magi: “Wash them cleanly, then cook them in them and eat them. He also forbade eating the meat of predatory sharp-toothed animals.” (Abu Dawud, Etima: 45) This hadith is famous as the narration of Abu Sa'lebe. This hadith has been narrated from him in different ways. The name of Abu Sa'lebe is Cersûb. It is also said to be Cürhüm and Naşib. This hadith was also narrated from Abu Kalaba, Abu Asma er Rahabi and Abu Sa'lebe.
1910-) It was narrated from Abu Sa'lebe al-Husheni (radiyallahu anh). Abu Sa'labe said: O Messenger of Allah! Said. We are in the land of people called People of the Book, and we cook in their pots and drink water from their pots! The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If you can't find any other than those containers, wash them well and clean them with water." O Messenger of Allah! Said. “We are in hunting areas, how should we do it?” They said: When you send your trained dog and mention the name of Allah, that is, when you say basmala, eat that animal even if it dies. If an untrained dog has been caught and slaughtered according to Islam, eat it. Even if you throw your arrow by mentioning the name of Allah, that is, by saying basmala, and your weapon kills the animal, eat it. (Abu Dawud, Etima: 45) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1911-) It is narrated from Maymuna (radiy-Allâhu anh): “A mouse was found dead in an oil container. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was asked about the ruling, he said: "Take the mouse and the oil around it, and eat the rest." (Abu Dawud, Etime: 47; Ibn Majah, Etimah: 8) A hadith was also reported from Abu Hurayra on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith was narrated from Zuhri, from Ubeydullah, from Ibn Abbas, and "Maymuna" was not mentioned. The narration of Ibn Abbas from Maimuna is more authentic. Ma'mer, from Zühri, Said b. They narrated a similar one from Musayyeb from Abu Huraira, which is not very acceptable. Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail, he was saying: Ma'mer'in, Zuhrî, Said b. Narrated by Abu Huraira from Musayyeb: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked, and he said: If it is solid fat, discard the mouse and the fat around it, if it is liquid, do not approach it.” This narration is wrong. Ma'mer made a mistake in this hadith. Muhammad continues: The authentic one; It is narrated from Zuhri, Ubaydullah, Ibn Abbas and Maymuna.
1912-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "Do not eat or drink with your left hand, because Satan eats and drinks with his left hand." (Ebû Dâvûd, Etime: 19; İbn Mâce: Etıme: 8) In this regard, Câbir, Ömer b. Ebi Seleme, Seleme b. al Ekvâ', enes b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik and Hafsa. This hadith is hasan authentic. Malik and Ibn Uyeyna reported this hadith from Zuhri, Abu Bakr b. They narrated from Ubaydullah and Ibn Umar. Ma'mer and Ukayl; Zuhri, Salim, and Ibn Omar. The narration of Malik and Ibn Uyayna is more authentic.
1913-) According to the narration from the father of Salim (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Let one of you eat with his right hand when he eats, and drink with his right hand when he drinks. Because the devil eats with his left hand.” (Abu Dawud, Etima: 19; Ibn Majah: Etimah: 8)
1914-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When one of you eats, he should lick his fingers because you do not know in which part of the food the blessing is." (Muslim, Eşribe: 18) In this regard, Câbir, Ka'b b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik and Anas. This hadith is hasan garib. We know this form only through the narration of Süheyl. I asked about this hadith. He said: It is one of the various hadiths of Abdulaziz, and it is known only with this hadith.
1915-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If one of you is eating something and a piece of it falls to the ground, he should pick it up and eat it off, not leave it to the devil.” (Ibn Majah: Etima: 13) A hadith was also narrated from Anas on this subject.
1916-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: After the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ate his food, he would lick his three fingers and say: If a piece of food of one of you falls to the ground, he should remove any dust from the fallen piece and eat that piece, not leaving that piece to the devil. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) would order us to clean eating utensils and say: "You do not know which part of your meal has blessings." (Ibn Majah, Etima: 13) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
1917-) Ebû'l Yemân al Mualla b. According to the narration from Rashid (radiyallahu anh), he said: Sinan b. Salama's concubine, who bore a child, narrated from my grandmother, Umm Asim, and said: Nubeysetul Hayr came to us and we were eating on a plate, and he told us that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever eats in a bowl and If he also cleans that bowl, that plate will ask forgiveness for himself, that is, he asks for the sins of that person to be forgiven.” (Abu Dawud, Etima: 17) This hadith is strange and only Mualla b. We know from the narration of Rashid. Yazid b. Harun and many of the hadith imams reported this hadith to Mualla b. They narrated from Rashid.
1918-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Blessings come down to the middle of the meal, so you should eat the food from the edges, not the middle." (Abu Dawud, Etima: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith is only in A'ta b. It is known by the narration of Saib. Shu'ba and Sevrî reported this hadith in A'ta b. They narrated from Saib. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Umar on the subject.
1919-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever said garlic first, then garlic, onion and leek, should not approach our mosques." (Abu Dawud, Etima: 40) This hadith is hasan authentic. In this regard, Ömer, Abu Ayyub, Abu Huraira, Abu Said, Jabir b. Samura, Kurre b. Hadith was also narrated from Iyas al-Muzeni and Ibn Omar.
1920-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) migrated to Medina, he was a guest in Abu Ayyub's house. When he ate, he sent the leftovers to Abu Ayyub. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) sent the food back to him one day without eating it. When Abu Ayyub came to Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and wanted to learn about the situation; There was garlic in that dish! they ordered. Abu Ayyub: Is garlic haram? O Messenger of Allah! Said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "No, but I don't like it because of its bad smell." (Abu Dawud, Etima: 40) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1921-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: “Eating garlic is forbidden because it disturbs the people around you. However, if it is cooked, it can be eaten as it will not cause this discomfort.” (Abu Dawud, Etima: 27)
1922-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: "It is not suitable to eat garlic, it can be eaten if it is cooked." (Muslim, Esribe: 31; Ibn Majah: Etima: 59) The proof of this hadith is not sound in this form. In this way, it was narrated as Ali's own word. Sharik b. It was also narrated as mursal through Hanbal. Muhammad says: Cerrâh b. Melih; he is an honest person. Cerrâh b. Zahhak, on the other hand, is a middle-class man.
1923-) Ubeydullah b. According to the narration from Abu Yazid's father, Umm Ayyub told him: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) migrated to Medina, he was a guest of them. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prepared a heavy meal containing these (onion, garlic) vegetables for him. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) disliked that food and said to his Companions: You eat from that food. I'm not like one of you, I'm afraid of hurting my angel friend next to me with that smell." (Muslim, Esribe: 31; Ibn Majah: Etima: 59) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Umm Ayyub is the wife of Abu Ayyub al-Ansari.
1924-) According to the narration from Abu'l Aliya (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Garlic is one of the halal foods." (Muslim, Eşribe: 31; İbn Mâce: Etıme: 59) The name of Ebû Halde is Halid b. It is dinar. He is a trusted person next to hadith scholars. Enes b. He reached Malik and heard hadith from him. Abu'l Âliye's name is Rüfey. It is called Riyahi. Abdurrahmam b. Mahdi says: Abu Halda is one of the distinguished Muslims.
1925-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Cover your doors, tie your overalls, shut the mouth of your vessels, cover what needs to be covered, turn off the lamps, because; The devil cannot open the closed, he cannot untie the whip, he cannot open the covers of the vessels. Because mouse; He wants to eat the oil and the wick in the lamps so that he can burn their houses on the head of the household.” (Muslim, Esribe: 12; Ibn Majah, Esribe: 16) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar, Abu Huraira and Ibn Abbas on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Jabir in different ways.
1926-) According to the narration from Salim's father, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When you are going to sleep, turn off the fires in your homes and take the necessary precautions." (Muslim, Eşribe: 12; İbn Mâce, Eşribe: 16) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1927-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "He forbade eating dates in pairs without obtaining permission from the owner." (Muslim, Eşribe: 25; Abu Dâvûd, Etime: 43) A hadith was also reported from Sa'd, the freed slave of Abu Bakr. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1928-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If dates (one of our basic foodstuffs) are not found in a house, the people of that house will be hungry." (Abu Dâvûd, Etime: 41; Ibn Mâce: Etıme: 38) A hadith was also reported from Selma, the wife of Abu Rafi. This hadith is hasan garib. Only Hisham b. We know this as the narration of Urwa. I asked Bukhari about this hadith and he said: Yahya b. We do not know anyone other than Hassan who narrated this hadith.
1929-) According to a narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Allah is pleased with a person who praises Him after eating or drinking something." (Muslim, Dhikr Dua: 24; Ibn Majah: Etima: 16) Ukbe b. Amir, Abu Said, Aisha, Abu Ayyub and Abu Hurayra had also been narrated. This hadith is hasan and many people like Zakariyya b. They narrated similarly from Abu Zaid. This hadith is only written by Zakariyya b. We know from the narration of ebî Zaide.
1930-) Jabir b. According to what is narrated from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took the hand of a person with leprosy and brought it to the bowl with his own hand and said: "Eat in the name of Allah, trusting and relying on Allah." (Muslim, Salam: 36; Ibn Majah: Medicine: 44) This hadith is strange. Only Yunus b. Muhammed, Mufaddal b. We know it from Fedale's narration. Mufaddal b. Fedâle: He is an old man from Basra. Another Mufaddel b. There is another Fedâle: he is more reliable and more famous than the other. Shu'ba reported this hadith from Habib b. From Shaheed, from Ibn Burayda; He narrated, “Umar took the hand of a leper…” Shu'ba's narration is more authentic and sound.
1931-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The unbeliever eats enough to fill seven intestines, and the believer eats enough to fill one intestine." (Ibn Majah: Etima: 3; Muslim, Esribe: 34) This hadith is hasan authentic. In this regard, Ebû Hüreyre, Ebû Said, Ebû Basra el Gıfârî, Ebû Mûsâ, Cehcah el Gıfârî, Meymûne and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr.
1932-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), a disbeliever came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as a guest, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered that a sheep be milked and served for him. Milk was milked from the sheep, the guest drank, then another sheep ordered to be milked. He became a Muslim the next morning. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered milk to be milked from a sheep again, the guest drank, he ordered milk from another sheep to be milked, but the guest could not drink this milk. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A believer drinks enough to fill one intestine, while a disbeliever eats and drinks enough to fill seven intestines." (Ibn Majah: Etima: 3; Muslim, Esribe: 34) This hadith is hasan sahih garib, as Suhayl's narration.
1933-) According to a narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The food of two people is enough for three people, and the meal of three people is enough for four.” (Ibn Majah, Etima: 2) A hadith has also been reported from Jabir and Ibn Omar on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1934-) Jabir and Ibn Omar; The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) narrated as follows: "The food of one person is sufficient for two, the food of two people is sufficient for four, and the food of four people is sufficient for eight." b. Bashar; Abdurrahman b. He narrated this hadith in the same way from Sufyan, Amesh, Abu Sufyan and Jabir through the Mahdi.
1935-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Ebî Awfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), when he was asked whether he would be eaten by locusts, he said: “I participated in six battles with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and we were eating locusts.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Etime: 34; Muslim, Sayd: 8) Sufyan b. Uyeyna said "six wars" by narrating from Abu Yafur in the same way. Sufyan as-Sevri and others narrated the same hadith from Abu Ya'fur and said "seven wars".
1936-) According to the narration from Ibn Abi Awfa, he said: "We fought seven wars with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and we were eating locusts." (Abu Dawud, Etima: 34; Muslim, Sayd: 8)
1937-) Shu'ba relates this hadith from Abu Ya'fur and Ibn Abi Awfa and says: "We fought many battles with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and we were eating locusts." as Muhammad b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. This is how they conveyed this hadith from Cafer and Shu'ba to us. A hadith has also been narrated from Ibn Umar and Jabir on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Ya'fur is "Vakîd". It is also called “Vakdan”. There is another Abu Ya'fur, whose name is Abdurrahman b. Ubayd b. It is Bestas.
1938-) Jabir b. Abdullah and Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), they said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed against the locusts, he would say: O Allah, kill the big ones, destroy the small ones, spoil their eggs, cut off their roots, and suffocate them from the crops and sustenance that is our livelihood. keep away, surely you are the hearer of prayer. man O Messenger of Allah! How can you pray that the army of locusts, an army of God's armies, is cut down? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "The locust is a creature that fish spread in the sea." (Ibn Mâce, Sayd: 9; Abu Dâvûd: Etıme: 34) This hadith is strange and we know it only as it is. One of the narrators of the hadith, Musa b. Muhammed b. Hadith scholars have spoken about Ibrahim et Taymi. Very strange and munkar = a person who has unwelcome narrations. Muhammed b. Ibrahim is a reliable person and he is from Medina.
1939-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever eats all kinds of filth, forbade eating the meat of an animal called "cellale" and drinking its milk." (Ebû Dâvûd, Eşribe: 14) In this regard, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Abbas. This hadith is hasan garib. The same hadith has been narrated by As-Mursal from Ibn Abi Najih and Mujahid.
1940-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade eating the meat of an animal that was killed by targeting, drinking the milk of animals that eat dirt, and drinking water from the mouths of overalls.” (Nesai, Dahaya: 41; Abu Dâvûd, Eşribe: 15)
1941-) Muhammed b. Bashar said: Ibn Abi Adiyy, Said b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Abu Aruba, Qatada, Ikrima, and Ibn Abbas. This hadith is hasan authentic. Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr.
1942-) According to the narration from Zehdem al-Cermi (radiyallahu anh), he said: “I went to Abu Musa and he was eating chicken. He said come close to me and eat, because I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) eating chicken.” (Nesai, Sayd: 33; Dârimî, Etime: 22) This hadith is hasan. This hadith is narrated from Zahdem in a different way. We know this hadith only as the narration of Zehdem. Abu'l Avvam is Imran al Kattan.
1943-) According to a narration from Abu Musa (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) eating chicken." This hadith is longer than this one. (Darimi, Etimah: 22) The hadith is hasan authentic. Ayyub es Sahtiyani narrated this hadith in the same way from Qasim et Tamimi, Abu Qalabe and Zahdem.
1944-) According to the narration from Safina's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father and grandfather, she said: “I ate bustard meat with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)” (Abu Dawud, Etime: 28) This hadith is strange and we only know it as such. . Abraham b. Umar b. Ibn Abi Fudeyk narrated a hadith from Safina. This person was Burayd b. Umar b. It is also called Sefîne.
1945-) It was narrated from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha). “Umm Salama offered the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) a piece of meat that was fried and turned into a kebab, but after the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ate it, he stood up for prayer without making wudu.” (İbn Mâce, Etıme: 29) In this regard, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Haris, Mughira and Abu Rafi. As such, this hadith is hasan sahih garib.
1946-) According to the narration from Abu Juhayfa (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I do not eat comfortably while leaning on a place." So I don't spend much time eating and spending my time there. (Ebû Dâvûd, Etime: 16; Dârimî, Etıme: 31) Ali, Abdullah b. Amr, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Abbas. This hadith is hasan authentic and only Ali b. We know from Akmer's narration. Shu'be also transmitted this hadith from Ali b. He narrated from Akmer.
1947-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) loved halva and honey.” (Ibn Mâce, Etıme: 36; Dârimî: Etıme: 34) the hadith is hasan sahih garib. Ali b. Mushir reported this hadith from Hisham b. He narrated from Urwa. More has been said about this hadith.
1948-) According to the narration from Abdullah el Muzeni (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When you buy meat, put a large amount of water on it, and anyone who cannot eat meat should eat it because one of the two meats is broth. (In other words, the nutritional value of boiled meat is in two parts, one is in the meat and the other is in the broth.)” (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also reported from Abu Dharr. This hadith is garib and only in this form, Muhammad b. We know with the narration of Feza. b. Feza's name is Muabbir. Suleiman b. Harb spoke about this person. Alkame b. Abdullah was Bekir b. He is the brother of Abdullah el Muzeni.
1949-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "One of you should not belittle any good deed. If he can't find anything to do good, let him greet your brother with a smiling face, if you want to buy meat and cook it, pour plenty of water and give some of it to your neighbor for goodness." (Ibn Mâce, Etime: 58; Dârimî, Etime: 37) This hadith is hasan authentic. Shu'ba relates this hadith from Abu Imran al-Jawni.
1950-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Many of the men have reached maturity, and among the women, Mary, daughter of Imran, and Asiye, wife of Pharaoh, have reached maturity. Aisha's superiority over other women is like the superiority of tirit meal over other meals.” (Bukhari, Anbiya: 34; Nesai, Muaşeret: 3) A hadith was also reported from Aisha and Enes on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1951-) Safwan b. According to the narration from Umayya (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Eat the meat with your teeth biting it because it is more delicious and more pleasant to eat in this way.” (Ibn Maje, Etime: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Etime: 20) A hadith was also reported from Aisha and Abu Hurayra on this subject. We know this hadith only as the narration of Abdulkarim. Some scholars; They talked about Abdulkerim al-Muallim. Ayyub es Sahtiyani criticized this person for his memory.
1952-) Amr b. According to the narration from Umayyata et Damri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he himself said: “He saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cut a fried mutton leg and ate it and went to prayer without making wudu." (Abu Dawud, Etima: 20) This hadith is hasan authentic. In this regard, Muğra b. A hadith was also reported from Shu'ba.
1953-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was brought cooked meat and presented to him, he liked the front leg and ate it with his teeth." (Ebû Dâvûd, Etıme: 20) In this regard, İbn Mes'ûd, Âisha, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Jafar and Abu Ubayda. This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Hayyan's name was Yahya b. Said b. Hayyan. Ebû Zür'a b. Amr b. Cerîr's name is Herim.
1954-) According to a narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The front thigh among meat was more beloved to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). But they found very little meat and meat dishes. They liked it because the forearm cooked more easily in the meat.” (Ibn Majah, Etima: 28; Abu Dâvûd, Etime: 20) This hadith is strange. but this is how we know it.
1955-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "What a wonderful additive vinegar is." (Ibn Majah, Etime: 33; Abu Dâvûd, Etime: 39) A hadith was also narrated from Aisha and Umm Hani on this subject.
1956-) Abde b. Abdullah el Huzai al Basri, Muaviye b. From Sufyan through Hisham, Muharib b. Narrated by Disar, Jabir, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “What a good food vinegar is.” This hadith is Mubarak b. It is more authentic than the narration of Said.
1957-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “What a wonderful food vinegar is.” (Ibn Maje, Etime: 33; Abu Dawud, Etime: 39)
1958-) Abdullah b. Abdurrahman, Yahya b. Through Hassan, Süleyman b. He narrated a similar hadith from Bilal in the same deed and said: "What a wonderful additive and food vinegar is." As such, this hadith is hasan sahih garib. This hadith is related to Hisham b. It is only from the narration of Urve that Sulayman b. We know from the hadith of Hilal.
1959-) According to a narration from Abu Talib's daughter, Umm Hani (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to me and did you have anything with you? they ordered. I said: No, nothing, just a few pieces of dried bread and vinegar. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said; They said, "A house with vinegar is not deprived of additives." (Ibn Majah, Etima: 33; Abu Dâvûd, Etime: 39) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. We know Umm Hani's hadith only in this way. Hamza es Sumâlî's name is Sabit b. Abu Safiyya. Umm Hani', Ali b. He died a surah after Abi Talib. I asked about this hadith. He said: I do not know if Sha'bi heard a hadith from Umm Hani. When I asked what kind of person Abu Hamza is next to you, Ahmed b. Hanbal said they talked about him back and forth, and he is a middle-class person with me.
1960-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “How good is vinegar as a additive.” (Ibn Maje, Etime: 33; Abu Dâvûd, Etime: 39) hadith Mubarak b. It is more authentic than Said's hadith.
1961-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha): "The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ate fresh dates and watermelon together." (Abu Dawud, Et'ime: 44) A hadith was also narrated from Anas on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib. Some say this hadith from Hisham b. They narrated from Urwa as a mursal from her father and did not say "from Aisha". Hadith of Yazid b. Ruman narrated from Urve and Aisha.
1962-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Jafar (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ate fresh dates and cucumbers together." (Ibn Majah, Etima: 37; Abu Dâvûd, Etime: 44) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Only Ibrahim b. We know from the narration of Sa'd.
1963-) It was narrated from Enes (radiyallahu anh); “Some people from the Urayna Tribe came to Medina and the weather in Medina was heavy for them. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent them to a place outside of Medina where the Zakat camels were located and ordered them to drink the milk and urine of the camels for treatment.” (Muslim, Kasame: 2; Nesai, Tahrimüddem: 7) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. This hadith was also narrated from Anas in other ways. Abu Qalabe, this hadith from Anas, Said b. Abi Arube also narrated it from Anas through Qatada.
1964-) According to the narration from Salman (radiyallahu anh), he said: According to what I read in the Torah, I read that the blessing of food is washing hands after eating. Then I reminded the Messenger of Allah about this issue and informed him that I had read it in the Torah. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The blessing of food is to wash hands before and after eating." (Abu Dawud, Etima: 11) A hadith was also narrated from Anas and Abu Huraira on this subject. Only Qays b. We know through the narration of Rabi. Kays b. It is noted that Rabi was weak in the hadith. Name of Abu Hashim er Rummani: Yahya b. It is dinar.
1965-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), food was prepared for the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) after he came out of the toilet and should we bring you water for wudu'? they said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I am going to pray and I have been ordered to perform ablution." (Abu Dawud, Etima: 11) This hadith is hasan authentic. Amr b. Dinar reported this hadith from Said b. He narrated it from Ibn Abbas through Huwayris. Ali b. al Medînî, Yahya b. He narrated that Said said, "Sufyan es Sevrî did not like to wash hands before eating and to put pita and phyllo under the plate."
1966-) Ikraş b. According to what is reported from Zubayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: Murra b. The sons of Ubayd sent the Zakat of their property to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) with me. I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in Medina and found him sitting between the Muhajir and the Ansar. Ikrash continued: Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) took my hand and took me to Umm Salama's house. Is there food available? he commanded. Afterwards, a large bowl with lots of meat and tirit was brought. We tended to eat from it, then I started running my hand all over the bowl. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was eating in front of himself. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took my right hand with his left hand and said: "O Ikrash! This is a one-course meal, eat from one place.” A plate containing various dates or -Shek came from Ubeydullah- was brought and a plate containing fresh dates was brought. I started to eat in front of myself. The hand of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) began to wander around the plate and the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Ikrash! Eat wherever you want it's not one of a kind. Then water was brought to us. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) washed his hands, rubbed his face, arms and head with the wetness of his palms and said: O Ikrash! This is the ablution to be taken for the things that the fire has touched.” (Ibn Majah, Etime, 7; Abu Dâvûd, Etime: 15) This hadith is strange. This hadith was only reported by Ala b. We know from the narration of Fadl. Ala narrates this hadith alone. We know only this hadith of Ikrash from the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam).
1967-) According to the narration from Abu Talut (radiyallahu anh), he said: Enes b. I went to Malik, he was eating zucchini and he was saying: "What a beautiful plant you are, how lovely you are to me because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) loved you." (Ebû Dâvûd, Etime: 21; İbn Mâce, Etıme: 26) On this subject, Hakim b. Hadith was also narrated from Jabir and his father. This hadith is strange in its form.
1968-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) researching the zucchini in the lunch box, so I like zucchini.” (Ibn Majah, Etima: 26; Abu Dâvûd, Etime: 21) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith was also narrated from Anas in different ways. According to the narration from (radiyallahu anh), he saw the pumpkin in front of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and what is this? He said; “This is squash,” he said. After that, we multiplied zucchini in our meals.
1969-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Eat olive oil and crawl because it is the product of a fruitful tree." (Ibn Mâce, Et'ime: 34; Dârimî, Etime: 346) We know this hadith only through the narration of Abdurrezzak from Ma'mer. Abdurrezzak fell into confusion in the deed of this hadith. In some narrations, they say "from Omar" and sometimes doubtfully say: "I think that Omar transmitted it from the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)". Sometimes: “Zayd b. He narrated it as a mursal saying, "From Eslem and his father".
1970-) Ebû Dâvûd Süleyman b. ma'bed; From Ma'mer through Abdurrezzak, Zayd b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Eslem, his father, and did not say "from Omar".
1971-) According to what is reported from Abu Asid (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Eat olive oil and crawl because it is from a fruitful tree.” (Ibn Mâce, Et'ime: 34; Dârimi, Etime: 346) This hadith is strange in its form. This hadith can only be reported by Sufyan es Sevrî's Abdullah b. We know it through the narration of Jesus.
1972-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), he informed us that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "If one of your servants is putting up with the fire and smoke of the food he has cooked and prepared, let him sit by the hand and sit at the same table with him. If he can't do that, you can have him eat that meal as well." Mace, Et'ime: 50; Ibn Majah, Etima: 19) This hadith is hasan authentic. Khalid is the son of Ismail. His name is Sa'd.
1973-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Spread the greetings, feed them food and cut off the heads of the unbelievers in wars so that you may inherit Paradise." (İbn Mâce, Etıme: 23; Dârimî, Etıme: 39) Abdullah b. Amr, Ibn Omar, Enes, Abdullah b. Salam, Abdurrahman b. Âişe, Şüreyh b. Hadith was also narrated from Hani and his father. This hadith narrated by Ibn Ziyad from Abu Huraira is hasan sahih garib.
1974-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Worship Allah, the Most Gracious, give food and spread the greetings so that you may enter Paradise in peace." (Ibn Mâce, Etime: 23; Dârimî, Etime: 39 This hadith is hasan sahih.
1975-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Eat dinner, even if it is a small amount of dates, because lifting up the dinner causes old age and weakness.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is one of the munkar hadiths that are not welcomed. But this is how we know it. It is said that Anbese is weak in hadith. Abdulmalik b. Allak is an unknown unknown person.
1976-) Omar b. According to the narration from Abi Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh), Abu Salama's son, Umar, entered the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and was eating at the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) at that moment. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to the boy: "Come closer, say bismillah, with your right hand and eat from the front." (Dârimî, Etıme: 9; Abu Dâvûd, Etime: 19) This hadith is also written by Hisâm b. From Urve, Abu Vecze es Sa'dî, a person from Müzeyne and Ömer b. It is also narrated from Abu Salama. Hisham b. Urwa's friends disagreed on the narration of this hadith. Vecze es Sa'dî's name is Yazîd b. It is Ubayd.
1977-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "If you forget to say Bismillah at the beginning of your meal, let him say Bismillah both before and at the end when he remembers." (Abu Dawud, Etima: 15)
1978-) In the same deed, it was narrated that Aisha said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was eating with six of his Companions. Then an Arab came and took two bites without saying bismillah and the meal was over. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If this person had said bismillah, this meal would have been enough for all of us. This hadith is hasan authentic. Gulsum is the daughter of Muhammad, son of Abu Bakr es Siddik.
1979-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Satan (or different microbes, insects and bacteria) are sensitive and destructive, so protect yourself from him. Whoever goes to bed with dishes and smells in his hand, and if something happens to him at night, should not blame anyone but himself.” (Abu Dâvûd, Et'ime: 53; İbn Mâce, Et'ime: 22) This hadith is strange in its form. This hadith is Suhayl b. It was also narrated from Abu Huraira, the father of Abu Salih.
1980-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever goes to bed with dishes and smells in his hand should not blame anyone but himself if something happens to him because of it." (Abu Dâvûd, Et'ime: 53; İbn Mâce, Et'ime: 22) This hadith is hasan garib. In this way, we know it as the narration of A'mesh.
1981-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Every intoxicating drink is alcohol, and every drink is haram. Whoever dies drinking wine all the time, will not be able to drink wine that will not intoxicate in the hereafter.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Eşribe: 5; İbn Mâce, Eşribe: 1) In this regard, Ebû Hüreyre, Ebû Said, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Ibn Abbas, Ubade and Abu Malik al-Ash'ari. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic. This hadith was also narrated from Nafi' and Ibn Umar in different ways. b. It was narrated from Anas, Nafi' and Ibn Omar as mawkuf.
1982-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The prayer of a person who drinks alcohol will not be accepted for forty days. If he repents, Allah accepts his repentance. If he turns to drinking alcohol again, Allah will not accept his prayer for forty days. If he repents, Allah will accept his repentance. If he turns to drinking alcohol again, Allah will not accept his prayer for forty days. If he repents, he will accept his repentance again. If he continues to drink alcohol for the fourth time, he will not accept that person's prayer for forty days, and even if he repents, he will not accept his repentance and will make him drink from the Habal river as a drink in Hell. He would then say, O Abu Abdurrahman. What is the Habal river? He said: It is a river of the pus of the people of Hell. (Abu Dawud, Ashriba: 5; Ibn Majah, Ashribe: 1) This hadith is hasan. Likewise, Abdullah b. It was also narrated from Amr and Ibn Abbas.
1983-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked about the status of the drink made from honey. (Dârimî, Eşribe: 8; İbn Mâce, Eşribe: 9) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1984-) According to a narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: "Every intoxicating thing is haram." (Ebû Dâvûd, Eşribe: 5; İbn Mâce, Eşribe: 1) On this subject, Ömer, Ali İbn Mes'ûd, Enes, Ebû Said, Ebû Mûsâ, Eşec el Asrî, Daylem, Meymûne, İbn Abbas, Kays b. Sa'd, Numân b. Beşîr, Muaviye, Vâil b. Hucr, Kurre el Müzeni, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Mugaffel, Umm Salama, Burayda, Abu Huraira and Aisha. This hadith is hasan. It was narrated similarly from Abu Salama and Abu Huraira. Both are true. In addition, many people likened this hadith to Muhammad b. They narrated from Amr, Abu Salama and Abu Huraira. The same hadith is also reported from Ibn Umar and Abu Salama.
1985-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "A little of the intoxicant is haram." (Ebû Dâvûd, Eşribe: 5; İbn Mâce, Eşribe: 10) Sa'd, Âisha, Abdullah b. Umar, Ibn Umar and Hawvat b. A hadith was also narrated from Jubayr. This hadith narrated by Jabir is hasan garib.
1986-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) narrated that she said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Every intoxicating thing is haram. A handful of something that intoxicates a faraq is also haram.” (Abu Dawud, Ashribe: 5; Ibn Mâce, Eşribe: 10) One of the narrators, in another narration, says, "One drink and one sip" is also haram. This hadith is hasan. Leys b. Abu Sulaym and Rabi' b. Subeyh reported this hadith from Abu Osman al-Ansari, Mahdi b. They narrated similar to Maimun's narration. Osman al-Ansari's name was Amr b. Salim and at the same time Umar b. It is also called Sâlim.
1987-) It was narrated from Tavus (radiyallahu anh). A man came to Ibn Umar and asked, "Did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbid the sour cider (beer) in clay pots?" he asked, Ibn Omar replied, "Yes". says: By Allah, I heard this from Ibn Umar himself. (Ibn Majah, Esribe: 15; Abu Dâvûd, Eşribe: 12) It is to make some items such as raisins and dates drink with plenty of water. On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Ibn Abi Awfa, Abu Said, Suveyd, Aisha, Ibn Zubayr and Ibn Abbas. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1988-) Amr b. According to the narration from Murra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard Zazan saying: I asked Ibn Umar about the containers in which the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prohibited making wine. I said explain it to us in your own terms and explain it in a way we can understand. Umar also said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade "hanteme", hanteme is a pot made of clay. Banned “Dübba”, Dubba; It's a gourd. He forbade "Nakir", Nakir; It is the carving of the palm log and turning it into a container. Banned “Müzeffet”, Müzeffet; They are pots covered with pitch. He ordered that the cider to be made in containers like the other (sauce) (Ibn Majah, Esribe: 13; Abu Dâvûd, Eşribe: 7) On this subject, Ömer, Ali, İbn Abbas, Ebû Said, Ebû Hüreyre, Abdurrahman b. Ya'mur, Semure, Enes, Aisha, Imran b. Husayn, Âiz b. The hadiths were also narrated from Amr, Hakam al-Gifari, and Maymuna. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1989-) Süleyman b. According to the narration from Burayda's father, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I forbade you from making wine in some containers. No container makes anything halal or haram. Every intoxicant is haram.” (Ibn Majah, Esribe: 13; Abu Dâvûd, Esribe: 7) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1990-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade making wine in different containers. The Ansar complained that we do not have any other vessels other than these. Thereupon, they said: "Then it's okay". (Ebû Dâvûd, Etıme: 4) In this regard, Ibn Mas'ud, Abu Said, Abu Huraira and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1991-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “We used to pour mustard in the overalls of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and the bag with a drain hole was tied. He would drink the must we brewed in the morning in the evening, we would pour the must in the evening and he would drink it in the morning.” (Ibn Majah, Esribe: 12; Abu Dâvûd, Esribe: 7) A hadith has also been reported from Jabir, Abu Said and Ibn Abbas on this subject. This hadith is garib. In this way, Yunus b. We know this hadith through the narration of Ubayd. This hadith was also narrated from Aisha in different ways.
1992-) Numân b. According to the narration from Bashir (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Wheat is used to make a drink. A drink is made from barley. Alcohol is made from dates.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Eşribe: 4; Dârimî, Eşribe: 13) A hadith was also reported from Abu Hurayra on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib.
1993-) According to the narration from Omar (radiyallahu anh), he said: “Wheat is used to make a drink…” He said the same hadith.
1994-) Omar b. According to the narration from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh): “Wheat is used to make a drink…” He quoted the same hadith. hadith Ibrahim b. It is stronger than the narration of the Muhajir. Ali b. Medînî says: Yahya b. Said: Ibrahim b. Muhajir is not very firm on hadith. hadith in different forms by Şa'bî and Numan b. It was also narrated from Bashir.
1995-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "It is mostly made of these two trees; Dates and grapes.” (Ibn Majah, Esribe: 11) This hadith is hasan authentic. Kesîr es Suheymi; Uberî, his name is Yazîd b. Abdurrahman b. It is Gufeyle. This hadith was reported by Shu'ba Ikrima b. Narrated by Ammar.
1996-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade making wine together with date groves.” (Abu Dawud, Ashriba: 9) This hadith is hasan authentic.
1997-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade making wine by mixing dates and date groves. He forbade making must by mixing raisins and dates with each other, and he forbade making must in clay pots.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Eşribe: 9) In this regard, Câbir, Enes, Abu Qatada, Ibn Abbas, Umm Salama and Ma'bed b. A hadith was also narrated from Ka'b's mother. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1998-) According to the narration from the referee (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard Ibn Abi Layla narrate from him: “Huzayfa asked for water, when someone brought him a silver bowl of water, he threw it at him and said: Because he did not give up on this job even though I forbade it. I threw it. However, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "He forbade eating and drinking in gold and silver vessels and wearing silk and satin fabrics. Using them is for the disbelievers in this world, and only for you in the Hereafter.” (Abu Dâvûd, Eşribe: 17; İbn Mâce, Eşribe: 17) A hadith was also narrated from Umm Salama, Bara and Aisha on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
1999-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) forbade a person to drink water while standing. What is it like to eat? When it is said; He is worse.” (Abu Dawud, Ashribe: 13; Ibn Majah, Ashribe: 21) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2000-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: “In the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); We ate while walking on the road, and we drank standing up.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Eşribe: 13; İbn Mâce, Eşribe: 21) This hadith was written by Ubeydullah b. It is authentic as the narration of Umar from Nafi' and Ibn Umar. Imran b. Jarir narrated this hadith from Abu'l Yuzeri and Ibn Umar. Ebû'l Yûzerî's name: Yazîd b. It is Atarid.
2001-) Carûd b. According to the narration from Muallimi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “He forbade drinking while standing.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Eşribe: 13; İbn Mâce, Eşribe: 21) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Abu Said, Abu Huraira and Anas. This hadith is garib hasan. Many people have narrated this hadith from Said, Qatada, Abu Muslim and Carut. From Qatada, Yazid b. Abdullah b. It has been reported from Shihhir, Abu Muslim and Carud that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "What a Muslim loses is a fire cover." Ibn al-Muallah al-Abdi is one of the relatives of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Carûd b. Also called ala. The correct one is Ibn al-Mualla.
2002-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) drank zamzam while standing." (Ebû Dâvûd, Eşribe: 13; İbn Mâce, Eşribe: 21) Ali, Sa'd, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr and Aisha. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2003-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather, he said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) drinking while standing and sitting." (Abu Dawud, Ashribe: 13; Ibn Majah, Ashribe: 21) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2004-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): “While the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was drinking water from a vessel; He would drink by breathing three times and drink it this way, it is more deceptive and sanitary.” (Ibn Mâce, Eşribe: 18; Dârimî, Eşribe: 20) This hadith is hasan garib. Hisham ed Destevâî narrated this hadith from Abu Isam, from Anas.
2005-) Azre b. In Thabit, he narrated from Anas through Sumama: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to breathe three times while drinking water." as Muhammad b. Beşşar, Abdurrahman b. Through the Mahdi Azre b. From Sabit el Ensarîyye, Sümame and Enes b. Narrated by Malik; He says, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to take three breaths while drinking water from a vessel." This hadith is hasan authentic.
2006-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do not drink in one breath like camels, say Bismillah when you drink it in two or three breaths, then say Alhamdulillah when you have finished drinking." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Yazid b. Sinan al-Jazari; He is Abu Ferve er Ruvahi.
2007-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to take two breaths while drinking (water from the container).” (Abu Dawud, Ashribe: 20) This hadith is strange. This hadith was only reported by Rishdin b. We know it through the Qurayb narration. Abdullah b. Abdurrahman (Ebû Muhammed), Rişdîn b. I asked about Kurayb. Is it him or Muhammad b. Kurayb is more solid, he said: Both are indistinguishable from each other, but I am Risdin b. I prefer Kureyb. Muhammed b. I asked Ismail, he said: Muhammad b. Küreyb, Rişdîn b. It is more preferred than Kurayb. In my view, Abu Muhammad is as Abdullah said. Rişdîn b. Kurayb is older and preferred. He reached Ibn Abbas and saw him. These are two brothers. Both of them narrate munkar and unwelcome hadiths.
2008-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) forbade blowing into a drinking bowl. Then a man said; He said, 'I see cherch in the bowl. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said pour them out. When that man said that he did not bleed in one breath, he said: "Then, take your mouth away from the water bowl and breathe". (Abu Dawud, Ashribe: 20; Ibn Majah, Ashribe: 24) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2009-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade blowing into a drinking bowl and breathing into it." (Abu Dawud, Ashribe: 20; Ibn Majah, Ashribe: 24) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2010-) According to the narration from Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not let one of you breathe into the bowl while drinking something.” (Abu Dawud, Ashribe: 20; Ibn Majah, Ashribe: 24) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2011-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We were forbidden to drink without turning the mouth of the water skins out and pouring them into a container.” (In other words, it is forbidden to drink by leaning the mouth on containers that cannot be seen.) (Darimi, Esribe: 19; Abu Dâvûd, Eşribe: 15) A hadith was also reported from Jabir, Ibn Abbas and Abu Hurayra. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2012-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from the father of Enis (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) get up from a hanging bag and drank water by putting his mouth there.” (Ibn Majah, Eşribe: 20; Dârimî, Eşribe: 19) A hadith was also reported from Umm Sulaym on this subject. The proof of this hadith is not sound. Abdullah b. It has been noted that Omar al-Umeri was weak in hadith. I do not know whether he heard a hadith from Jesus or not.
2013-) According to a narration from Kabsha (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to me, then he drank water from the mouth of a hanging bag; So I got up and cut the mouth of the overalls he was drinking as a souvenir.” (Ibn Mâce, Eşribe: 20; Dârimî, Eşribe: 19) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Yazid b. Câbir, Abdurrahman b. Yazid b. He is the brother of Jabir and died before Abdurrahman.
2014-) Enes b. It was narrated from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): “A milk mixed with water was brought to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and at that moment, there was a Bedouin on the right side of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and Abu Bakr on his left. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) drank and gave it to the bedouin on his right and said, "Let it be drunk in rows from the right." (Dârimî, Eşribe: 18; İbn Mâce, Eşribe: 22) İbn Abbas, Sahl b. Sa'd, Ibn Umar and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Busr. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2015-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever distributes water to a community drinks last.” (Ibn Mâce, Eşribe: 26; Dârimî, Eşribe: 28) A hadith was also reported from Ibn ebi Awfa on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2016-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The favorite drink of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was sweet and cold drinks.” (Musnad: 22971) Many people have narrated this hadith from Ibn Uyeyna, from Ma'mer, Zuhri, Urve, and Aisha, as here. It is the one that is narrated from Zuhri as mursal, which is authentic.
2017-) According to what is reported from Zuhri (radiy-Allâhu anh): Which drink is more delicious for the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)? He was asked. He said: "The sweet and cold one." (Musnad: 22971) Abdurrazak thus narrated from Ma'mer as mursal from Zuhri. This is more authentic than the hadith of Ibn Uyayna.
2018-) Behz b. Hakim (radiy-Allâhu anh) says: My father quoted it from my grandfather and said: “I said, "O Messenger of Allah." Who should I do good to? They said: "To your mother" then to whom did I say. “To your mother,” he commanded. Then, who did I tell, he said "to your mother" again. Then who did I say? He said, "To your father, then to relatives and relatives". (Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 119) In this regard, Ebû Hüreyre, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Aisha and Abu'd Darda. Behz b. Hakim, Abu Muaviye b. Hayde el Kuseyri. The hadith is hasan. Branch; Behz b. He spoke about the judge. However, this person is a reliable person among hadith scholars. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Ma'mer, Hammad b. Salama and many hadith imams narrated hadiths from him.
2019-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: Which deed is more valuable to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? I asked. They said: "It is the prayer performed on time." Then which one, O Messenger of Allah! said. He said, "To do good to parents." Then which one, O Messenger of Allah! Said. They said, "Jihad in the way of Allah". Then he stopped talking to me and if I had asked him more he would have continued to answer. (Bukhari, Mavakît: 5) The name of Abu Amr al-Shaybani is Sa'd b. It is Iyas. This hadith is hasan authentic. Shaybani, Shu'ba and many others reported this hadith from Walid b. They narrated from Ayzar. The hadith was also narrated from Ibn Mas'ud in different ways through Abu Amr al-Shaybani.
2020-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The pleasure of your Lord is in pleasing your parents. The wrath and wrath of your Lord is in the wrath and wrath of your parents.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
2021-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. From Shu'ba through Ja'far, Ya'la b. From Ata, from his father, Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Amr, without any reference to us, which is more authentic. Shu'ba's men, from Shu'ba, Ya'la b. Ata from his father and Abdullah b. They narrated it from Amr as mawkuf. Among those who narrated from Shu'ba, Khalid b. We do not know anyone other than Harîs who narrates this hadith as merfu. b. Harîs is a reliable person. About this person, Muhammad b. I heard Müsenna say: “In Basra, Khalid b. al-Haris, in Küfe Abdullah b. I have never seen the like of Idris.” In this regard, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Mas'ud.
2022-) It was narrated from Abu'd Darda (radiyallahu anh). A man came to Abu'd Darda and said to him: I have a wife, my mother orders me to divorce her, what should I do? Abu'd Darda said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "Mother or father is a reason to enter Paradise through the best of the gates of Paradise. You lose that door by not doing their right, or protect that door by pleasing them, try to get it.” (Ibn Majah, Adab: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 119) Ebi Ömer said: Sufyan said: "My mother or father." This hadith is authentic. The name of Abu Abdurrahman es Sulemi is Ibn Habib.
2023-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh) and his father, he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) should I tell you about the biggest of the major sins? they ordered. Companions yes, O Messenger of Allah! they said. He said: Associating partners with Allah, disobeying parents. While reclining, he straightened up and came to his session and continued as follows: "Perjury and lying" repeated this last word so much that; We wished we had kept quiet. (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 1; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 119) A hadith was also reported from Abu Said on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Bakr's name was Nüfey' b. It is Harîs.
2024-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "To insult one's parents is one of the major sins." The Companions said: O Messenger of Allah, does one ever abuse one's own parents? “Yes” they said. “A person curses a man's father, and then he curses his father, and the same person curses someone's mother and he also curses his mother.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 119; Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2025-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "The best of good deeds is to not break ties with those whom his father loves." (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 119; Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 1) A hadith was also reported from Abu Esîd on this subject. The isnad of this hadith is authentic. It has also been narrated from Ibn Umar in different ways.
2026-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “An aunt is in the position of a mother instead of a mother.” This hadith is quite long. (Abu Dawud, Talak: 35) The hadith is hasan authentic.
2027-) Abu Kureyb, through Abu Muaviye Muhammad b. From Suka, Abu Bakr b. He conveyed a similar hadith from Hafs to us, and he did not say "from Ibn Umar" in this narration. This narration is more authentic than the narration of Abu Muawiya. Abu Bakr b. Hafs, Omar b. Sa'd b. He is the son of Abi Vakkas.
2029-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is no doubt in the acceptance of the prayers of three people, the person who is persecuted and wronged, the person who is a passenger or a guest, a mother, father's prayer for his children." (Ibn Mâce, Dua: 11; Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 3) Haccac es Savvaf reported this hadith from Yahya b. Abu Kathir narrates it like Hisham's narration. Abu Cafer, who narrated from Abu Huraira, is called the muezzin Abu Cafer, we do not know his name. Yahya b. Abi Kathir narrated it in other hadiths.
2030-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Son; The mother cannot pay the father's right in any way, but if he finds it as a slave, buys it and frees it, maybe it will be considered to have paid." (Muslim, Itk: 6) This hadith is hasan and this hadith is only Suhayl b. We know it from the narration of Abu Salih. Sûfyan es Sevrî and many others related this hadith to Süheyl b. Narrated by Abu Salih.
2031-) According to the narration from Abu Salama (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abu'r Reddad al-Leysi fell ill and Abdurrahman b. Avf had come to visit him. Abu'r Reddad said: As far as I know, the person who is the best of people and does not cut off their attention is Abu Muhammad (he is the patronymic of Abdurrahman b. Avf) Thereupon, Abdurrahman b. Awf said, I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) tell us that Allah said: "I am Allah, I am the Most Merciful, and I have created kinship. I named him after my name. Whoever maintains the ties of kinship, I will not cut my ties with him. Whoever cuts off the ties of kinship and cuts off interest, I will cut off my interest in him." (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 6; Bukhari, Adab: 12) on the subject, Ebû Said, İbn Ebi Evfa, Âmir b. Rabia, Ebû Hüreyre, Cübeyr b. Hadith was also narrated from Mut'im. This hadith narrated by Sufyan from Zuhri is authentic. Ma'mer reported this hadith from Zuhri, Abu Salama, Reddad el Leysi and Abdurrahman b. Narrated by Avf. Ma'mar thus narrates. says: The hadith of Ma'mar is wrong.
2032-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It does not mean that he pays for the visit made to him. The one who does not really lose interest is the one who does not cut off and continues to be interested in those who do not care about himself.” (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 6) This hadith is hasan authentic. Salman, Aisha, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Umar.
2033-) Cübeyr b. According to the narration from Mut'im (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "He who cuts off his relations with his relatives will not enter Paradise." Ibn Abi Omar said, quoting from Sufyan, that it means "one who cuts off interest in his relatives". (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 6) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2034-) According to what is reported from Havle (radiy-Allâhu anha), the daughter of Hakim, she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came out of his house one day, and he was holding one of the two sons of his daughter Fatima on his lap and was talking as follows: “You children are stingy. You keep busy in a way that makes you cowardly and ignorant, You are considered one of Allah's fragrant blessings. (Musnad: 26051) Ibn Umar and Eş'as b. Hadith was also narrated from Qays. Ibn Uyeyna, Ibrahim b. We know the hadith he narrated from Maysera only through his narration. Umar b. We do not know if Abdulaziz heard hadith from Hawla.
2035-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Akra b. Habis, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He saw that he was kissing his grandson Hasan (Ibn Omar says Hasan or Hussein in his narration) and said, I have ten children, I have not kissed any of them. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "He who does not show mercy will not be shown mercy." (Muslim, Fedail: 15) A hadith was also narrated from Anas and Aisha on this subject. Ebû Salama b. Abdurrahman's name: Abdullah b. Abdurrahman b. It is Avf. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2036-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If one of you has three daughters or three sisters and does good to them and gets along well, Allah will put him in Paradise. ” (Muslim, Fedail: 15) Aisha, Ukbe b. Hadith was also narrated from Amir, Anas, Jabir and Ibn Abbas. The name of Abu Said al-Khudri was Sa'd b. Malik b. It is Sinan. Sa'd b. Abu Vakkas, on the other hand, Sa'd b. Malik b. It is Vüheyb. Some narrators added one more person to the chain of this hadith.
2037-) It was narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever is tested by one of his daughters and he is patient with her, they will be a curtain for him against the fire of Hell." (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 46) This hadith is hasan.
2038-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever nurtures and raises two daughters by nurturing them, me and him; He said, "We will enter Heaven like these two," and showed two fingers." (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 46) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
2039-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: A woman with two daughters came to me and asked for my help. There was nothing but a date, I gave it to him, he divided it between his two daughters, he did not eat that date, then he got up and left. When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) arrived, I informed him of the situation, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever is tested by a girl child, they will be a curtain for him against the fire.” (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 46) The hadith is authentic.
2040-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever has three daughters or three sisters or two daughters and two sisters, they get along well with them. If he is conscious of his responsibility towards Allah, he will be in Paradise.” (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 46) This hadith is strange. Muhammed b. Ubeyd, Muhammed b. He did not narrate any hadith other than this hadith from Abdulaziz. from Ibn Abi Bakr, Ibn Ubeydullah b. The hadith was also narrated from Anas, which is authentic, Abdullah b. ebî Bakr b. It is the story of Enes.
2041-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever takes an orphan among Muslims and makes him a partner in food and drink, Allah will definitely put him in Paradise. However, if an unforgivable sin is committed, it is different.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 121) In this regard, Murre al-Fihrî, Abu Huraira, Abu Umama and Sahl b. A hadith was also narrated from Sa'd. Haneş, Hüseyin b. Kays and Abu Ali er Rabbî. Süleyman et Taymi says that Haneş is considered weak compared to hadith scholars.
2042-) Sahl b. According to a narration from Sa'd, he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I and the person who takes care of the orphan are in Paradise; He showed two fingers saying we are like those two.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 121) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2043-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), an old man came to see the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and the people there delayed making room for him. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "He is not one of us who does not show compassion to our younger ones and respect our elders." (Tirmidhi narrated.) Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Abu Huraira, Ibn Abbas and Abu Umama. This hadith is garib. Zerbi's, Enes b. There are munkar narrations that are not welcomed by Malik and others.
2044-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "He is not one of us who does not show compassion to our younger ones and does not recognize the honor of knowledge of our elders." (Musnad: 6445)
2045-) Hennad, Muhammed b. He narrated a similar hadith from Ishaq; He said "who does not recognize the rights of our elders".
2046-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He is not one of us who does not show compassion for our youngest and respect for our elders, and does not enjoin good deeds and forbid evil.” (Musnad: 2214) This hadith is hasan garib. Amr b. Şuayb, Muhammed b. The hadith he narrated from Ishaq is hasan sahih. Hadith Abdullah b. It has been narrated from Amr in the same way in other ways. Some scholars say, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) is not one of us" means: "He is not one of our Sunnah and our adab." b. Medînî, Yahya b. It is narrated from Said that: Sûfyan es Sevrî: “He is not from us, your word; He disliked and rejected it when it was interpreted as "he is not from our nation, that is, our religion".
2047-) Cerir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Allah will not be merciful to those who are not merciful to people." (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 23) This hadith is hasan authentic. In this regard, Abdurrahman b. Awf, Abu Said, Ibn Omar, Abu Huraira and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr.
2048-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard Abu'l Kasim (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "Mercy is only removed from the hearts of Shaki = bandits whose hearts are hardened." (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 23) The name of Abu Osman, who narrated from Abu Huraira, is unknown. Musa b. It is said that he was the father of Abi Osman, Abu'z Zinad narrated hadiths from him. Zinad, Musa b. Apart from this hadith, hadiths were also narrated from Abi Osman and his father. This hadith is hasan.
2049-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah, Most Merciful, is merciful to the merciful. Have pity on those on earth, so that those in heaven will pity you, Rahm; Rahman is a vein from the name; Whoever does not break the ties and does not cut off the interest, Allah will bring him to his mercy. Whoever cuts the ties, Allah cuts off his mercy from that person.” (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 23) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2050-) Cerir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I accepted the political authority of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and gave allegiance to praying, giving Zakat, and giving sincere advice to every Muslim.” (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 23; Nesai, Beya: 14) This hadith is authentic.
2051-) Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said three times, “Religion is advice, it consists of being sincere.” The Companions said: O Messenger of Allah! Against whom? They said: It means being sincere towards Allah, His Book, Muslim rulers and Muslims in general. (Nesai, Beya: 14) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ibn Omar, Temîm ed Dârî, Cerir, Hakîm b. Hadith was also narrated from Abu Yazid's father and from Sevban.
2052-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A Muslim is a Muslim's brother, he cannot betray him, he does not lie to him, he does not let him down. A Muslim's chastity, honor, property and blood (life) are haram for a Muslim. Taqwa = awareness of responsibility towards Allah right here (in the heart). It is enough evil for a Muslim to despise his Muslim brother.” (Muslim, Birr and Sila: 17; Bukhari, Adab: 34) This hadith is hasan garib. Hadith was also narrated from Ali and Abu Ayyub.
2053-) According to the narration from Abu Musa al-Ashari (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A believer is like a building whose parts support each other against a believer." (Muslim, Birr and Sila: 17; Bukhari, Adab: 34) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2054-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "You believers are mirrors of one another. If you see a wound in each other that needs to be fixed, fix it immediately.” (Muslim, Birr and Sila: 17; Bukhari, Adab: 34) Yahya b. Ubeydullah, Shu'be; considered weak in hadith. A hadith has also been narrated from Anas on this subject.
2055-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever removes a Muslim's trouble from the troubles of this world, Allah will remove his troubles from the troubles of the Hereafter. Again, whoever comes to the aid of a Muslim who is in trouble, Allah will come to his aid both in this world and in the hereafter and make their work easier. Whoever covers the faults of a Muslim brother in this world, Allah will cover his faults in this world and the next. Ash; As long as he helps his brother, Allah helps him.” (Muslim, Birr and Sila: 17; Bukhari, Adab: 34) Ibn Omar and Ukbe b. A hadith was also narrated from Amir. This hadith is hasan. Abu Avana and many other people reported this hadith to us from A'mash, Abu Salih, Abu Hurayra, etc.
2056-) According to the narration from Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever repels all kinds of evil from his Muslim brother's chastity, honor and similar things, Allah will repel Hellfire because of him on the Day of Judgment. ” (Muslim, Birr and Sila: 17; Bukhari, Adab: 34) A hadith was also reported from Esma bint Yazid on this subject. This hadith is hasan.
2057-) According to what was narrated from Abu Ayyub al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "It is not permissible for a Muslim to be angry with his Muslim brother for more than three days. When two Muslims meet each other, one of them turns his face this way and the other turns the other way. However, the best of these two Muslims is the one who greets first.” (Bukhari, Adab: 62; Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 8) In this regard, Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Enes, Abu Huraira, Hisham b. Amir, Abu Hind ed Dari had also been narrated. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2058-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abdurrahman b. When Awf migrated from Mecca to Medina, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) met with Sa'd b. He made Rabî a brother. Then Sa'd, come to Abdurrahman, let's divide my property into two and share it with you. He said, 'I have two wives, I want to divorce one of them, you will marry her when her period ends. Abdurrahman replied: May Allah grant you your wealth and your family and bless you and show me the way to the bazaar. They showed me the market right away. He returned with the trade he made that day, earning some curd and oil. Later, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw the scent of a groom's suit on his dress, what is this? They commanded. Abdurrahman said: I married a woman from the Ansar. What did you give him as Mihir? By your command; He said a core. Humayd said: “… Or a core of gold.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Give a wedding feast, even if it is with a sheep." (Bukhari, Magic: 18; Muslim: Nikah: 56) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Hanbal says: A golden core weighs three dirhams and one third dirham. b. Ibrahim says: The weight of a golden core is five dirhams. Ishaq b. I heard from Mansur, who was Ahmed b. He reported it to me by transmitting it from Hanbal and Ishaq.
2059-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: What is backbiting? O Messenger of Allah! It was said, and they said: "It is when you remember your brother about something he does not like and talk about it." He said, "What if the situation I said is present in him". Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If he has what you say, it is considered backbiting, otherwise you are slandered." (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 20; Bukhari, Adab: 46) Abu Barze, Ibn Omar and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2060-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not cut off ties with one another, do not turn your back on each other, do not hold grudges against one another, do not be jealous, be servants of Allah, be brothers. It is not permissible for a Muslim to be offended by his Muslim brother for more than three days." (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 7) This hadith is hasan authentic. In this regard, Abu Bakr es Siddik, Zübeyr b. Hadith was also narrated from Avvam, Ibn Mas'ud and Abu Huraira.
2061-) Zuhri (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrates from his father, saying: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Hasad can only be about two things: In other words, a person can only envy these two people and want to be like them. A man to whom Allah has given wealth, who distributes it day and night in order to earn rewards. A person to whom Allah has given the knowledge of the Qur'an strives day and night to learn and teach it, so that his decree will be valid on earth." (Muslim, Birr and Sıla:7) This hadith is hasan authentic. A similar hadith was narrated from Mas'ud and Abu Huraira.
2062-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Satan has given up hope that Muslims who pray will worship him. But he is hopeful to open their way between them and turn them against each other.” (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 7) Enes, Süleyman b. Amr b. Hadith was also narrated from Ahvas and his father. This hadith is hasan. Abu Sufyan's name was Talha b. It is Nafi.
2063-) According to the narration from Umm Kulthum (radiyallahu anha), the daughter of Uqba, she said: Nobody is a liar.” (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 79) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2064-) According to the narration from Asma bint Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is permissible to lie in three places; A person can lie to please his wife, lie can be told about the strength and power of the Islamic army in war, and lie can be told when trying to get between people." Mahmud b. Gaylan says in his own narration: "Lying is convenient in three places". (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 79) We know that the hadith is Esma's hadith only through the narration of Ibn Huseym.
2065-) Dâvûd b. Abi Hind reported this hadith from Shahr b. He narrated it from Havsheb and did not say "From Asma" in the hadith. In this way, Muhammad b. Ala narrated it to us from David through Ibn Abi Zaide. A hadith was also narrated from Abu Bakr.
2066-) According to a narration from Abu Sirma (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever is harmful, Allah will cause harm to him. Those who cause difficulties also run into difficulties.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 51; İbn Mâce: Ahkam: 33) This hadith is hasan garib.
2067-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr es Siddiq (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever harms or cheats a believer is cursed, that is, he has strayed away from Allah's mercy." (Abu Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 51; İbn Mâce: Ahkam: 33) This hadith is strange.
2068-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Gabriel recommended the rights of neighbors so much that I thought he would inherit the neighbor from the neighbor.” (Abu Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 122; Bukhari, Adab: 32) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2069-) According to the narration from Mujahid (radiyallahu anh): “Abdullah b. A sheep was slaughtered for Amr's household. When he got home he said: Did you give our Jewish neighbor a gift from the meat of this? Did you give our Jewish neighbor a gift from the meat of this? I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say, "Gabriel always advised me to be neighborly, and I thought that he would inherit the neighbor from the neighbor." (Ebû Dâvûd, Akdıyye: 122; Bukhari, Adab: 32) Aisha, Ibn Abbas, Abu Huraira, Enes, Miqdad b. Esved, Ukbe b. Hadith was also narrated from Amir, Abu Shurayh and Abu Umama. This hadith is hasan garib as it is. This hadith was also narrated from Mujahid, Aisha and Abu Huraira in the same way.
2070-) Abdullah b. According to what was narrated from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The best friend in the sight of Allah is the one who is good to his friend. The best of a neighbor in the sight of Allah is the one who is good to his neighbor.” (Abu Dawud, Akdıyye: 122; Bukhari, Adab: 32) This hadith is hasan garib. Abdurrahman al-Hublî's name is Abdullah b. Yazid.
2071-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "These are your brothers. Allah has made them servants under your command. Whoever has such a servant and staff, let him feed him from what he eats, dress him from what he wears, let him not burden him with a task that he cannot accomplish, if he burdens him with such a task, let him help him in that job.” (Bukhari, Faith: 29; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 17) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ali, Umm Salama, Ibn Omar and Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2072-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “An immoral person with bad temper will not enter Paradise.” (Ibn Majah, Adab: 17) This hadith is strange. Ayyub es Sahtiyani and many hadith imams criticized Ferkad es Sebehî for his memory.
2073-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: "The Prophet of Tawba, Abu'l Qasim (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Whoever tells a slave or servant that he has committed adultery without any crime, Allah will tell him on the Day of Judgment. Kazf imposes punishment, if that slave and servant did such a job, nothing is necessary.” (Bukhari Faith: 29; Ibn Majah: Adab: 80) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ibn Abi Nu'm, Abdurrahman b. Ebî Nu'm el Becelî. He is labeled as Ebû'l Hakam. Suveyd b. Mukarrin and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Umar.
2074-) According to the narration from Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was beating a slave, I heard someone behind me saying: Abu Mas'ud be mild-tempered, know that Allah is stronger than you, when you look back, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) Sallam) said, "Allah is stronger and stronger than you are strong against this slave." Abu Mas'ud says: After this incident, I did not beat any of my slaves. (Muslim, Faith: 35; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 92) This hadith is hasan authentic. İbrahim et Taymi, İbrahim b. Yazid b. Şerîk.
2075-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: How many times should a man come to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and forgive the servant for his crime? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) remained silent and did not answer. How many times should I forgive the man for his crime again? Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Seventy times a day." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 72) This hadith is hasan garib. Abdullah b. Wahb narrated a similar hadith from Abu Hani al-Havlani in the same deed. Abbas = Ibn Huleyd el Haceriyyül Mısrî.
2076-) Qutayba, Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abu Haniel Hawlani through Wahb in the same deed. Some say this hadith from Abdullah b. By narrating from Wahb with the same deed, Abdullah b. Umar instead of Abdullah b. They quoted it as Amr.
2077-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When one of you beats his servant and slave, he should immediately remember Allah so that he should not beat his hand." (Tirmidhi narrated.) The name of Abu Harun al Abdi is Imâre b. He is Cuveyn. Abu Bakr al Attar, Ali b. Medînî, Yahya b. According to what Said told us, Shu'ba saw Abu Harun al Abdi as weak. Yahya says: Ibn 'Awn narrated hadiths from Abu Huraira until he died.
2078-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "It is better for a person to educate his child by giving a good education than to give a measure of charity." (Musnad: 19995) This hadith is garib. Nasıh = Abu'l Âla and he is from Kufa. He is not a solid person next to hadith scholars. This hadith is known only in this way. There is another old man from Basra named Nasıh. Ammar b. This person who narrates from Abu Ammar and others is stronger than the other.
2079-) Eyyub b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Moses (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “No parent has given their child a gift better than good education.” (Musnad: 14856) This hadith is garib. This hadith is only attributed to Amir b. We know it through the narration of ebî Âmir el Hazzaz. This person was Amir b. Salih b. Rustam al-Hazzaz. Ayyub b. Musa was Ibn Amr b. Said b. He is asi. I think this hadith is mursal.
2080-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to accept the gift and reward him with something in return.” (Bukhari, Grant: 6; Abu Dawud, Magic' 69) hadiths were also reported from Abu Hurayra, Anas, Ibn Omar and Jabir. This hadith is hasan garib authentic as it is. Only Isa b. We know from Yunus' narration from Hisham.
2081-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He who does not know how to thank people cannot thank Allah either.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 11) the hadith is hasan authentic.
2082-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He who does not thank people cannot thank Allah either.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 11) Abu Hurayra, Eş'as b. Kays and Numân b. A hadith has also been narrated from Bashir. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2083-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Smiling at your brother's face earns you the reward of charity. Ordering good things and forbidding evil gives rewards for charity. Helping and guiding a person in a foreign country earns the reward of charity. Helping a person whose eyesight is disturbed will also earn you the reward of charity. Removing things such as stones, bones and thorns that may prevent people from coming and going from the roads also earns the reward of charity. Emptying something from one's own container into the container of a person in need will still earn the reward of charity." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ibn Mas'ud, Jabir, Huzeyfe, Aisha and Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan garib. The name of Abu Zumeyl was Simâk b. He is Velid al-Hanafi.
2084-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Avsece (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Barâ b. I heard Azib say: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "The one who donates sheep or goats to benefit from his milk, donates money and goods to someone in need, or guides a person who has lost his way; He earns rewards as if he had freed a slave.” (Musnad: 17783) This hadith was written by Abu Ishaq, Talha b. It is hasan sahih garib as it is narrated from Mûsârrif. We know this hadith only in this way. Mansur b. Mu'temir and Shu'ba reported this hadith from Talha b. They narrated from Mûsârrif. Numân b. A hadith has also been narrated from Bashir. The meaning of the word “Menaha” here is to lend money and goods. The meaning of the word "who guides" is the one who guides and leads to the truth.
2085-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A man found a thorn branch while walking on the road and pulled it aside. Allah appreciated his behavior and forgave him.” (Ibn Majah: Adab: 7; Abu Dawud: Adab: 159) hadiths were also narrated from Abu Barza, Ibn Abbas and Abu Dharr. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2086-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person looks to his right and left and speaks a word to another, that word is a trust, it should not be disclosed.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 38) This hadith is hasan. We know from the narration of Ibn Abi Zi'b.
2087-) According to a narration from Abu Bakr's daughter, Esma (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: O Messenger of Allah, there is nothing in my house other than what my husband Zubayr brought, so can I give something as alms? When I asked him, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Yes, you can, don't close the mouth of your wallet, the mouth of the wallet given to you will also be closed. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued: "If you give, don't count, it will be given to you by counting." (Bukhari, Adab: 39; Abu Dâvûd, Zakat: 46) A hadith was also reported from Aisha and Abu Huraira on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. Some of them reported this hadith from Ibn ebî Mülayke with the same deed, from Abbad b. Abdullah b. It was narrated from Zubayr and Asma bint Abi Bakr. Many people narrated this hadith from Ayyub, and in the hadith, "Abbad b. Abdullah b. They did not say, "From ez Zubayr".
2088-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A generous person is close to Allah, close to Paradise, and away from fire. The stingy person is far from Allah, far from Paradise, far from people and close to the fire. Generous ignorant; He is more beloved to Allah than the stingy scholar.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Only Yahya b. Said b. Said b. We know from the narration of Muhammad. This hadith was written by Yahya b. In the narration from Said b. Muhammad was opposed. Yahya b. A mursal hadith was narrated from Said and Aisha.
2089-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: stinginess and bad morals.” (Abu Dawud, Zakat: 46) This hadith is strange. This hadith was only reported by Sadaqah b. We know from the narration of Moses. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Huraira on this subject.
2090-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr es Siddiq (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The swindler, the stingy and the stingy will never enter Paradise.” (Musnad: 31) This hadith is hasan garib.
2091-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A believer is pure and honorable. Facir, on the other hand, is deceitful and despicable.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 58) This hadith is strange and we know it only as it is.
2092-) According to the narration from Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Expenditures made by a person for his children are also charity.” (Bukhari, Faith: 53; Muslim, Zakat: 69) Abdullah b. Amr, Amr b. A hadith was also narrated from Umeyye ed Damri and Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2093-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The most valuable money is the money a person spends on his own family, the money he spends for a war horse in the way of Allah and the money he spends for his fellow soldiers in the way of Allah. Abu Qalabe says: He started with the children and continued as follows. Who is greater in terms of reward than a person who, by this means, provides alimony to his young children, and whom Allah has made contented and rich in his heart.” (Muslim, Zakat: 10; Ibn Majah: Jihad: 50) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2094-) According to what is reported from Abu Shurayh al-Adawi (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) -my eyes saw and my ears listened while he said these-said: Companions: What is the guest's treat? they asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is to host well for one day and one night. Being a guest is for three days, and offering it to the guest after three days earns the reward of charity. A person who believes in Allah and the Last Day should either speak good or remain silent.” (Bukhari, Adab: 60; Muslim, Faith: 69) This hadith is hasan.
2095-) According to the narration from Abu Shurayh al-Kabri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Hospitality is three days, and it is one day and one night when the guest is well received. Whatever is spent on the guest after this day is charity. It is not permissible for the guest to stay until the host is narrowed." (Bukhari, Adab: 60; Muslim, Faith: 69) hadiths were also narrated from Aisha and Abu Huraira. Malik b. Enes and Leys b. Sa'd also narrated this hadith from Said al Makburi. This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Shureyh al-Huzai is Ka'bî, he is Adevi. Name: Huveylid b. It is Amr. The meaning of “la yesvî indehû” is that the guest stays for a long time, causing distress to the host. The meaning of the word "Haraj" is; It means "to be offended", meaning that the owner of the house is constricted and overwhelmed.
2096-) Safwan b. Sulaym (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated as a merfu: “A person who strives to take care of widows and poor orphans gains a reward like a person who makes jihad in the way of Allah or like one who spends the day fasting and the night praying.” (Bukhari, Nafakat: 24; Ibn Majah, Ticarat: 31)
2097-) Ansari from Ma'n through Ma'n, Sevr b. He narrated a similar hadith from Zayd ed Dilî, Abu'l Gays and Abu Huraira. The hadith is hasan sahih garib. The name of Abu'l Kays was Abdullah b. Muti's freed slave is Sâlim. Sevr b. Zayd; He is from Medina. Sevr b. Yazid is from Damascus.
2098-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Every good deed earns the reward of charity. It is a favor to meet your brother with a smiling face, as well as pouring something he needs from his own bowl into his brother's bowl, it is a kindness and earns the reward of charity." (Musnad: 14182) A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Dharr. This hadith is hasan.
2099-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not stray from the truth! Righteousness leads to goodness, and goodness leads to Paradise. As long as the person is truthful and searches for the truth and is on the right path, in the sight of Allah “Siddiq” = a straight person is written as a person who confirms what comes from Allah. Avoid lying and stay away. Lies lead to evil and evil leads to Hell. As long as a person lies and continues to lie, he will be written among many liars in the sight of Allah.” (Bukhari, Adab: 29; Muslim, Birr: 18) In this regard, Abu Bakr es Siddik, Ömer, Abdullah b. Hadith was also reported from Shihhir and Ibn Umar. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2100-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When a servant tells a lie, the angel moves away from him a mile because of the foul odor caused by his lie.” Yahya said: Abdurrahman b. Harun confirms this hadith and said, "Yes, it is true." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan ceyyid garib. We know this hadith only in this way. Abdurrahim b. Harun was left alone in the narration of this hadith.
2101-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The habit and morality that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) disliked and got angry with is lying. If someone lied in the presence of (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) he would want that person to immediately repent and be cleansed of that sin. (Musnad: 24027) This hadith is hasan.
2102-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Immorality and wickedness defile that place and anyone, wherever it is.” (Bukhari, Adab: 77; Ibn Majah: Zuhd: 17) A hadith was also reported from Aisha on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only through the narration of Abdurrezzak.
2103-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The best and best of you are those with the best morals. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was not of a rough and harsh character, neither from birth nor later." (Bukhari, Adab: 77; Ibn Majah: Zuhd: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2104-) Samura b. According to a narration from Jundub (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not curse one another with Allah's curse, and do not curse each other with Allah's wrath and anger. And do not curse one another with the fire of Hell, which is the fire of Allah.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 45) Ibn Abbas, Abu Huraira, Ibn Omar, Imran b. A hadith was also narrated from Husayn. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2105-) According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A believer is not a person who slanders and denigrates him, who curses him, whose speech and behavior are corrupt and whose mouth is abusive.” (Bukhari, Adab: 38) This hadith is hasan garib. Again, hadiths were also narrated from Abdullah.
2106-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), a man cursed the wind in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), upon which the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not curse the wind, because it is in charge. Whoever curses someone who does not deserve the curse, that curse will return to him.” (Bukhari, Adab: 38) This hadith is hasan garib. Bishr b. We do not know of anyone other than Umar who narrates this hadith as musnad.
2107-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Learn your ancestry so that you do not break your ties of kinship by visiting them. Because not breaking the ties between relatives causes love in the family, abundance in wealth and prolongation of life. (Abu Dawud, Adab: 110) This hadith is strange in its form. The meaning of the sentence "menseetün elephant work" means prolongation of life.
2108-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “No prayer; It is not as fast in acceptance as the prayer that two people make to each other without their knowing behind their backs.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 12) This hadith is strange. We know this hadith only in this way. It was said that El Ifrikî was weak in hadith, and his name was Abdullah b. Ziyd b. It is Enam. Abdullah b. Yazid's name is Abu Abdurrahman al-Hublî.
2109-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The sin of two people who fight is the one who starts cursing unless the oppressed party whose right is usurped goes forward.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 42; Buhârî Adab: 44) Sa'd, İbn Mes'ûd and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Mugafel. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2110-) Zayd b. According to the narration from İlâka (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Mughira b. I heard Shu'ba saying: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not insult people who have died, you will hurt their relatives who are still alive." (Musnad: 17498) Sufyan's friends disagreed on the certificate of this hadith. While some narrate it like Huferî's, some others from Sufyan, Ziyâd b. By narrating from İlâka; Muğîre b. They narrated that they heard it from a person next to Shu'ba.
2111-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "To insult a Muslim is to stray from the straight path of Allah. Muslim; Pulling a gun on a Muslim and killing him is disbelief.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 39) says: To Ebû Vâil; “Did you hear this hadith from Abdullah? Said. He said "Yes" too. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2112-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There are mansions in Paradise that can be seen from the inside and from the outside.” A Bedouin stood up and said: Who are those mansions for? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "It is for those who say nice and sweet words, give food, keep up with supererogatory fasts, and pray at night while people are asleep." (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is strange and only Abdurrahman b. We know from the narration of Ishaq. Some hadith scholars Abdurrahman b. They said that Isaac was weak in terms of memory. This person is from Kufa. Abdurrahman b. Ishaq al Qureshi, on the other hand, is from Medina and is stronger than his counterpart. Both lived at the same time.
2113-) According to a narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If one of you has a slave who obeys Allah and does the right of his master, what a great happiness for both people. ” Ka'b says: "The word of Allah and His Messenger is true." (Bukhari, Itk: 33; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 124) hadiths were also reported from Abu Musa and Ibn Omar. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2114-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Three people will be on heaps of musk on the Day of Judgment;
2115-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Wherever you are, live with the consciousness of Allah, and do a good deed after a sin that you have committed so that it will destroy it. . Treat people with good morals.” (Dârimî, Rikak: 71) A hadith has also been reported from Abu Huraira on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2116-) Mahmud b. Gaylan transmitted a similar hadith to us with this deed from Sufyan and Habib through Abu Ahmed and Abu Nuaym.
2117-) Mahmud said: Vekî' is from Sufyan, Habib b. Ebi Sabit, Maymun b. Ebî Şebîb and Muâz b. He narrated a similar hadith from Cebel to us. Mahmud says: The hadith of Abu Dharr is authentic.
2118-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Always stay away from conjecture and bad guesses, because the most false statements are bad conjectures and guesses.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 37) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abd b. I heard Humayd quote from some of Sufyan's friends as follows: Sufyan said: “Zan is of two types; sinful assumption, non-sinful assumption. The sinful assumption is this: A person makes an assumption about a person and says it. Assuming that is not a sin is this: A person has a misconception about someone, but that opinion stays in his heart and does not tell anyone about it.”
2119-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to get involved with us children. Even to my little brother: He used to joke, "O Ömercik, how is your bird?" (Abu Dawud, Adab: 64)
2120-) Hennad conveyed a similar hadith to us from Shu'ba, Abu't Tayyah, and Enes through Vekî'. Ebû't Tayyah's name is Yazîd b. Humayd ed Dubeyî. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2121-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “O Messenger of Allah, you are joking with us, is this what's going to happen? We said. Thereupon, they said: "Even when I'm joking, I only tell the truth and the truth." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 64) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2122-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) for a riding animal to ride on. Man: O Messenger of Allah! What should I do with the young female camel? When he said that, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Didn't all camels be born by female camels?" (Abu Dawud, Adab: 84) This hadith is hasan sahih.
2123-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to say to himself: "O two ears." (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 84) b. Gaylan; Narrated by Abu Umama, he said: "He used to say that to joke with him." This hadith is authentic.
2124-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever abandons false and invalid lying, a mansion will be built around Paradise. Whoever abandons quarrels and arguments even though he is right, will have a mansion built in the middle of Paradise. Whoever improves his morals will also have a mansion built in the highest part of Paradise.” (Ibn Mâce, Mukaddime: 5) This hadith is hasan and it was written by Salama b. We know from Verdan's narration from Enes.
2125-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "It is enough for you to maintain your life by continuing your hostility." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is garib and we only know it as such.
2126-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Do not argue with your brother, do not joke with him in a hurtful way, and do not make a promise to him that you cannot keep.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. However, it is known as such. Abdulmalik is Ibn Bashir for me.
2127-) Aisha (radiyallahu anha) reported that she said: While I was with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), a person asked permission to meet with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). He said: "The good man of the society" or "the benevolent son of the society". Then she gave him permission and spoke softly to him. When the man leaves, O Messenger of Allah! Said. You said what you said about that man, and then you were gentle with him. Thereupon, he said: "The worst of people is the one whom people leave to protect themselves from harm." (This is why it is necessary to take care of people). (Bukhari, Adab: 52; Muslim: Birr: 93) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2128-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Love the person you love in moderation, and one day he may become someone you dislike. Do not love someone you do not love in moderation, so that one day you may become someone you love very much.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib and we know it only with this hasad and in this form. It has also been narrated by a saned other than Ayyub, and Hasan b. It's from Cafer. The hadith narrated by this person with an attribution from Ali is weak. The correct narration is the narration of this hadith from Ali.
2129-) According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A person whose heart is as arrogant and arrogant as a mustard seed will not be able to enter Paradise. Again, a person who has a grain of faith in his heart will not enter Hell.” (Muslim, Faith: 31; Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 9) Abu Hurayra, Ibn Abbas, Salama b. Hadith was also narrated from Ekvâ' and Abu Said. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2130-) According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A person with an iota of arrogance in his heart will not enter Paradise, and a person with an iota of faith in his heart will not enter Hell.” Thereupon, a man said: “I like my dress and shoes to be nice.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Allah loves beauty, but arrogance means ignoring the truth and belittling people." (Ibn Majah, Muqaddimah: 9) The scholars say the following in the interpretation of this hadith: The meaning of the phrase "He who has an iota of faith in his heart will not enter Hell"; It means "he will not enter eternally". Likewise, it was narrated from Abu Said al-Khudri: Many people have said about the 192nd verse of the chapter of Aal-i Imran: “O our Lord, whoever you put in the fire of Hell, you will certainly disgrace him…” This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
2131-) Salama b. According to a narration from Ekvâ' (radiy-Allâhu anh)'s father, he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person who sees himself as high will eventually be written into the tyrants and what happened to them will happen to him too." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
2132-) Jubayr b. According to the narration from Mut'im's (radiyallahu anh) father, he said: "They say that I am arrogant, but I rode on a donkey, wore clothes made of hair, and milked sheep..." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever does these things, that person is also There is no piece of arrogance.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
2133-) According to the narration from Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Nothing is heavier on the scale of a believer on the Day of Judgment than good morals. God never likes rude and immoral people.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 5) Aisha, Abu Huraira, Enes, Usama b. A hadith has also been reported from Sharik, and this hadith is hasan.
2134-) Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Nothing in the balance sheet is heavier than good morals. A person with good morals attains the rewards of those who perform prayers and fast.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 5) This hadith is strange in its form.
2135-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: What deed did the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) cause people to enter Paradise? When he was asked, he said: “It is a sense of responsibility towards Allah and good morals”. "When asked about the deeds that caused people to enter Hell, they said: It is the tongue and genitals in the mouth." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 26) This hadith is authentic. Abdullah b. Idris; Ibn Yazid b. Abdurrahman al Evdi.
2136-) Abdullah b. Mubarak described good morals as follows: "To be smiling, to spread goodness and to prevent persecution." (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
2137-) According to the narration from the father of Eb'ul Ahvas (radiyallahu anh), he said: O Messenger of Allah! Said; I stop by someone, but he doesn't host me and he doesn't host me. Should I do the same to him when he visits me? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "No, you host and host him." He saw him in worn clothes and said, "Do you have any property?" I also have all kinds of goods; I said, 'God has given me plenty of camels and sheep. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Then let the trace of this blessing be visible on you." (Musnad: 15323) A hadith has also been reported from Aisha, Jabir and Abu Huraira on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Ahvas; Avf b. Malik b. He is Nadle al-Cushemi. The meaning of the word is to host him. means feast.
2138-) According to the narration from Huzayfa (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not be like those who say, "If everyone does good, we will also do it, if everyone does injustice, we will be unjust; Be prepared not to do injustice to those who do evil to do." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib and we know it as it is.
2139-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever visits a sick person and visits a religious brother for the sake of Allah, a crier will shout: “You did well, you did good. May your steps be good, may your place in Heaven be beautiful.” (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 33) This hadith is hasan garib. Sinan's name is Isa b. It is Sinan. b. Salama narrated a part of this hadith from Thabit, Abu Rafi, and Abu Huraira.
2140-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Haya is from faith, and the place of the believer is Paradise. Speaking bad words hurts people, and the place of those who cause trouble and hurt is Hell.” (Musnad: 10108) Ibn Omar, Abu Bakr, Abu Umama, Imran b. A hadith was also narrated from Husayn. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2141-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Serjis al-Muzeni (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Good manners and moderation are part of the twenty-four parts of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas on the subject. The hadith is hasan garib.
2142-) Qutayba, Nuh b. Through Kays Abdullah b. From Imran, Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Sarjis and did not say "from Asim" in his deed. Nasr b. Ali's story.
2143-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to a person named Eşec from the tribe of Abdulkays: “You have two qualities that Allah loves;
2144-) Sahl b. According to the narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh)'s father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: haste is from the devil.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Some hadith scholars, Abdulmuheymin b. Abbas b. They talked about Sahl and said that he was weak in memory. b. Abdulkays's name: Münzir b. It is Aiz.
2145-) According to the narration from Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever is given a share of being mild-tempered means he has had his share of goodness. A person who does not get a share of mildness and is deprived of it means that he has not received a share of goodness.” (Musnad: 26273) Aisha, Cerir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah and Abu Huraira. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2146-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), Muâz b. While sending Cebel to Yemen as governor, he said: “Beware of the curse and curse of the oppressed! For there is no veil between him and Allah.” (Bukhari, Zakat: 8; Muslim, Faith: 27) Enes, Abu Huraira, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Umar and Abu Said al-Khudri. The hadith is hasan authentic. The name of the temple is Nafiz.
2147-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I served the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) for ten years. Why did you do this because of something I did? Why didn't you do this in a job that I didn't do as he said? He didn't." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was the best of people in terms of morality. No piece of cloth, silk or anything I touched was softer than the hand of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The smell of the sweat of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) was better than all scents and musk." (Bukhari, Vesaya: 61; Muslim, Fezail: 69) A hadith was also reported from Aisha and Bara. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2148-) According to the narration from Abu Ishaq (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard from Abu Abdullah al-Jadeli that he said: I asked Aisha about the morals of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and she said: He did not argue with people in the bazaar and market, he did not repay evil with evil, he forgave and was tolerant.” (Bukhari, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abdullah al-Jadeli's name is Abd b. is abd. Abdurrahman b. It is called in the USA.
2149-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “I did not feel the jealousy I felt for Khadija, one of the wives of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), against anyone, whereas I had not met and talked to him. The only reason for this was that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) remembered him a lot. Even when he slaughtered a sheep, he would gather the people Hatice loved and give them this meat as a gift.” (Muslim, Fezail-us Sahaba: 62; Bukhari, Menakîb: 32) the hadith is hasan sahih garib.
2150-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The most beloved and closest to me on the Day of Judgment will be those of you with the best morals. Those who will be the most unpleasant to me and the most distant from me on the Day of Judgment are those who annoy people with unbalanced bullshit and talkativeness.” Companions: O Messenger of Allah! They said: We understand the unbalanced and bullshit, but who are these oppressors? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "They are those who are arrogant and arrogant." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) A hadith was also reported from Abu Huraira on this subject. In this form, the hadith is hasan garib. this hadith by Mubarak b. From Fedâle, Muhammed b. Narrated by Munkadir and Jabir, in his deed, “Abdi Rabbih b. They did not say "Saîd", which is more authentic. Sersar: Someone who talks a lot. Müteseddik: It is a person who disturbs people by prolonging his words.
2151-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A believer cannot be a cursed person." (Tirmidhi narrated.) Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Mas'ud. The hadith is hasan garib. Some have narrated this hadith as follows: "It is unthinkable for a believer to be a cursed reader." This hadith explains the previous one.
2152-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh), he said: "A person came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: Tell me something short and concise so that I can remember it. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to his anger: That person repeated this question several times. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said "Don't be angry" every time. (Bukhari, Edeb: 51) In this regard, Abu Said and Süleyman b. Hadith was also narrated from Surad. As such, this hadith is hasan sahih garib. The name of Abu Husayn, Osman b. He is Asim al-Asadî.
2153-) Muâz b. According to the narration from the father of Enes al-Juheni (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever overcomes his anger even though he can do anything; On the Day of Judgment, Allah will call that person in front of all creatures and will free him to take from the houris he wishes.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 47; Ibn Majah: Zuhd: 76) This hadith is hasan garib.
2154-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a young man treats an old man because he is old; He prepares for himself someone who will serve him when he is old.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is strange as it is, and only Yazid b. We know from the narration of Beyan. Abu Rijal al-Ansari is another person.
2155-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The doors of Paradise are opened on Mondays and Thursdays. Anyone who does not associate partners with Allah in these two days will have their sins forgiven. However, two people who are offended by each other are excluded from these forgiveness. It is said, "Do not leave these two people in Paradise until they reconcile." (Muslim, Birr: 54; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 70) This hadith is hasan authentic. In some narrations, it is said, "Leave these two people until they reconcile". The meaning of the word "mütehâcirîn": It means to be offended and offended. It is like the hadith: "It is not permissible for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to be offended and offended by his Muslim brother for more than three days."
2156-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), some of the Ansar asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) for something. The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) gave them what they wanted. Then they asked again. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) gave them what they wanted again and then said: "I will not hide anything that I have with me from you, I will definitely give it." and whoever is contented; God makes him rich. Whoever wants to be chaste, Allah will make him chaste. And whoever shows patience and endurance in order to be patient, Allah will make him patient; no one has been given anything better and more beneficial than patience.” (Bukhari, Rikak: 79; Muslim, Zakat: 45) A hadith was also reported from Anas on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith was also reported from Malik, and instead of "Felen eddehirahû" it was said "Felen ezharahu". Mana is one; It means I'm not going to hide it from you.
2157-) According to a narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The person who will be in the worst position on the Day of Judgment is the one who is hypocritical and applies double standards to people.” (Bukhari, Adab: 34; Muslim, Fezail-us Sahabe: 77) Hadiths were also reported from Enes and Ammar on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2158-) Hemmâm b. According to what is reported from Harîs (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A man, Huzeyfe b. He passed by Yaman. Huzeyfe was told that this man is speaking to statesmen from the people. Thereupon, Huzayfa said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and he said that he will not enter Paradise. Sufyan says: Kattat is a person who is a keeper and a middleman. (Abu Dawud, Adab: 33) the hadith is hasan authentic.
2159-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Haya and speaking less than necessary are two parts of faith. Talking obscene and talking too much are two parts of hypocrisy.” (Musnad: 21280) This hadith is hasan garib. Ebû Gassa, Muhammed b. We know from the narration of Mutarrif. “El Iyyu” means to speak very little. “hand cloth” means to talk about things that will lead to sin. “Declaration” is to talk more than necessary, just like those speakers who keep exalting some people by prolonging the issues that Allah is not pleased with.
2160-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), two men came to Medina at the time of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and both made a speech. People were fascinated by their speech. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) turned to us and said: "The way of expression has a fascinating side" or "some of the ways of expression are fascinating". (Bukhari, Medicine: 51; Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 86) Ammar, İbn Mes'ûd and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Shihhir. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2161-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Charity never diminishes wealth, but Allah increases one's honor through forgiveness. Whoever humbles himself for Allah, Allah will raise his rank.” (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 19) Abdurrahman b. A hadith was also narrated from Awf, Ibn Abbas. The name of Abu Kebşe el Enmari was Ömer b. It is Sa'd. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2162-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “To live outside of oppression and injustice means to be in darkness on the Day of Judgment.” (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 10) Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Aisha, Abu Musa, Abu Huraira and Jabir. The hadith is hasan sahih as the hadith of Ibn Umar.
2163-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) never found fault with any meal in his life; If it was a food he liked, he would have left it if there was no place.” (Ibn Majah: Etima: 4) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ebû Hazîm is Eşcaî and is from Kufa. His name is Selman. He is the freed slave of Azze el Eşcaiyye.
2164-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) climbed the pulpit and said loudly: “O people who say they are Muslims with their tongues and do not have faith in their hearts, do not upset Muslims, do not blame them, do not investigate their faults. Whoever searches for the fault of his Muslim brother: Allah will reveal his fault. If Allah reveals the fault of anyone, even if he is in his house, he will disgrace him.” (Tirmidhi narrated) said: Ibn Umar one day looked at the Ka'ba and said: How great are you, how great is your sanctity. A believer is more holy and valuable than you in the sight of Allah. This hadith is hasan garib, and it was written by Husayn b. We know from the narration of Waqid. Ishaq b. İbrahim es Semerkandî, Hüseyin b. He narrated a similar hadith from Waqid. Likewise, a similar hadith was narrated from Abu Barza al-Aslemi.
2165-) According to a narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is no mild-tempered person whose foot has not slipped. There is no scholar without experience.” (Musnad: 11234) This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only in this way.
2166-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a person is given the opportunity, he should give it back immediately. Anyone who can't find it should thank the donor, and whoever gives thanks will have done his/her duty. Whoever donates and does good will have done his duty. Whoever donates and does not thank those who do good, will be ungrateful. A person who makes a show of himself with something that has not been given to him is like a naked person wearing two lies.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 83) This hadith is hasan garib. A hadith was also narrated from Esma bint Abi Bakr and Aisha on the subject. The meaning of the word “ve men keteme fekad kefere” means: “He will be ungrateful for the blessing”.
2167-) Usama b. According to the narration from Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If someone does a good deed, and if he says to the person who does good, Allah will reward you with goodness in this world and in the hereafter, he will certainly give the best praise and return it. ” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan ceyyid garib. Only Usama b. We know it in this way, as reported by Zayd. A similar hadith was narrated from Abu Huraira. I asked Muhammad and he did not know anything about this hadith. Abdurrahman b. Hazim al-Belhi said, quoting: Makki b. I heard from Ibrahim, he was saying: We were with Ibn Jurayj al Makki, a beggar came and asked for something. Ibn Jurayj said give his servant a dinar. Servant: I don't have any money but one dinar with me, if I give it to you, your children will starve. Ibn Jurayj got angry and said: Give it to that poor person! Makki says: We were with Ibn Jurayj, a man brought a letter and a pouch. Some of his friends had sent him. In the letter it was written: You got fifty dinars. Busefer Ibn Jurayc opened the purse and counted the coins. Fifty-one dinars came out there. Busefer Ibn Jurayj said to his servant: I gave a dinar to the poor. Allah gave one dinar and an additional fifty dinars.
2168-) Qatada b. According to a narration from Numan (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah protects and guards his beloved servant in this world, just as one of you protects the sick from the forbidden water.” (Musnad: 22516) A hadith was also reported from Suheyb and Umm Munzîr on this subject. The hadith is hasan garib. This hadith is Mahmud b. It was narrated from Labîd as mursal.
2169-) Ali b. Hucr, İsmail b. From Amr through Cafer, Âsım b. Umar b. From Qatade, Mahmud b. He narrated a similar hadith from Labîd and in his deed, “Qatada b. He did not mention "Numân". Qatada b. Numan ez Zufri is a brother of Abu Said al-Khudri's mother. Mahmud b. When Labîd was a small child, he reached the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and saw him.
2170-) According to the narration from Ummul Munzir (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: He came to me with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and Ali with him. We also had bunches of dates hanging. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) began to eat from them. Ali was also eating. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to Ali: "Don't eat, you are just getting rid of the disease." Thereupon, Ali sat down and the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) continued to eat. So I brought them a dish made of turnip leaves and barley. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: “O Ali! Eat from this, this is more beneficial for you.” (Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 2; İbn Mâce, Medicine: 3) This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only through the narration of Fuleyh. Only Füleyh b. Ayyub b. It was also narrated from Abdurrahman.
2171-) Muhammed b. By means of Beşşar, Ebû Amir and Ebû Dâvûd, Füleyh b. From Süleyman, Eyyub b. By citing this hadith from Abdurrahman, Yakup and Ummul Munzir al-Ansariyya: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to us..." Yunus b. Unlike the narration of Muhammad, he used the phrase "It is beneficial for you" instead of "It is suitable for you". b. While Bashar narrated this hadith, Ayyub b. Abdurrahman says he quoted it. the hadith is jayyid garib.
2172-) Usama b. According to the narration from Sharik (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Bedouins said: O Messenger of Allah! If we get sick, should we go to treatment? they said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Yes, get treatment, O servants of Allah, be treated. Because Allah has created a cure or cure for every disease He has created. However, a disease is an exception.” On top of that is it a disease? When they say, O Messenger of Allah; “He is old age,” he said. (Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 1; Ibn Mâce: Medicine: 1) Hadith was also narrated from Ibn Mas'ud, Abu Huraira, Abu Huzame, his father, and Ibn Abbas. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2173-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: When one of the household of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) fell ill with malaria, he used to order slurry to be made. When the slurry was made, he would order them to drink from it, and he would say about this slurry meal: “It strengthens the heart of the grieving person. It relieves the pain from the heart of the patient, just as it removes the dirt from the face of one of you with water…” (Ibn Mace, Medicine: 5) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2174-) This hadith was narrated by Ibn al-Mubarak from Yunus, Zuhri, Urve, and Aisha. Again, this hadith is similar to Huseyn b. Muhammad narrated it to us from Abu Ishaq et Talikani and Ibn al-Mubarak.
2175-) Uqbe b. According to the narration from Amir al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not force your patients to eat and drink, because Allah makes them eat and drink." (Ibn Majah, Medicine: 4) This hadith is hasan garib and we know it only in this way.
2176-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Continue to use black cumin because it has a cure for every problem, but sam is other than it. Sam, on the other hand, is death.” (Ibn Majah, Medicine: 5) On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Burayda, Ibn Omar and Aisha. The hadith is hasan authentic. love” is Shuniz, that is, black cumin.
2177-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh): “Some people from the tribe of Urayna came to Medina, but the weather of Medina was heavy for them; Therefore, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) sent them to a place outside of Medina where the zakat camels were located, and there they drink the urine and milk of the camels. (Ibn Majah, Medicine: 30) A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2178-) Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh) said as a merfu: “Whoever commits suicide with a piece of iron will come on the Day of Judgment with that iron in his hand and will stick that iron in his stomach in the eternal fire. Whoever commits suicide with a poison will also have the poison in his hand and he will sip that poison in the fire of Hell, where he will stay forever.” (Abu Dawud, Medicine: 11)
2179-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever commits suicide with a piece of iron, he will come on the Day of Judgment with that iron in his hand and will stick that iron in his stomach in the eternal fire. Whoever commits suicide with a poison will also have the poison in his hand and will sip that poison in the fire of Hell, where he will stay forever. Whoever commits suicide by throwing himself from the mountain and from a high place, that person will fall into the fire of Hell forever.” (Abu Dawud, Medicine: 11)
2180-) Muhammed b. Superb; He narrated a similar hadith to us from A'mash, Abu Salih, Abu Huraira, Amesh, through Abu Muawiyah and Waki'. This hadith is stronger than the first hadith. Many people have narrated this hadith from A'mash, Abu Salih and Abu Huraira in this way. b. Aclân, narrating from Saîd el Makbûrî and Abu Huraira, said: "Whoever commits suicide with poison will be punished in Hell." He did not say "forever". Similarly, Abu'z Zinad narrated this hadith from A'raj and Abu Hurayra, and this narration is more authentic. Because the stories; It is in the form that people who believe in tawhid will come out of Hell after seeing the torment. In these narrations, the phrase "they will stay forever" is not used.
2181-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the use of bad medicines." (Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 11; İbn Mâce, Medicine: 11) In other words, it is like poison.
2182-) Alkame b. According to the narration from the father of Vâil (radiy-Allâhu anh), he himself; Tariq b. He was with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) when Suveyd (or Suveyd b. Tariq) asked the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) the verdict of things that intoxicated him. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade everything that intoxicates, he said: "We use it in medicine." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Every kind of alcohol is not a cure, but a affliction.” (Abu Dawud, Medicine: 11)
2183-) Mahmud, Nadr b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Shu'ba through Şümeyl and Şababe. Tariq b. Shababe by Suveyd: Suveyd b. Tariq says. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2184-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Some of the best medicines you use in treatment are nasal drops, syrup, blood draw and laxatives." When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) became ill, they forced him to drink syrup without his consent, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made them drink syrup as a punishment. Ibn Abbas was not one of these drinkers." (Abu Dawud, Medicine: 8; Ibn Majah: Medicine: 12)
2185-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The best medicine you treat is syrup, nasal drops, blood draw and laxatives. The best of the ones you use as a kohl is the kohl made of ismid stone, which polishes and shines the eyes and nourishes the eyelashes.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Medicine: 8; İbn Mâce: Medicine: 12) Abbas says: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) had a kohlrabi. When he was going to bed, he used to apply kohl to his eyes three times. This hadith is hasan garib. Abbad b. It is the narration of Mansur.
2186-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade treatment by cauterization and said: We got a disease, we cured it with cautery, but we could neither get rid of it nor succeed.” (Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 7; İbn Mâce: Medicine: 23) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2187-) Abdulkuddus b. Muhammed, Amr b. From Hemmâm, Qatade, Hasan, Imran b. Husayn, he said, "We have been banned from the method of treatment by cauterizing". On this subject, Ibn Mas'ud, Ukbe b. Hadith was also narrated from Amir and Ibn Abbas. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2188-) According to the narration from Enes (radiyallahu anh); “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, “Asad b. He had cured Zürare by cauterizing some of the redness on his body.” (Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 7; İbn Mâce: Medicine: 23) A hadith was also reported from Ubay and Jabir on this subject. The hadith is hasan garib.
2189-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had blood taken from his two side veins on the back of his head and between his two shoulder blades. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to have blood drawn on the seventeenth, nineteenth and twenty-first days of the month.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Medicine: 3; İbn Mâce: Medicine: 20) İbn Abbas, Ma'kil b. Hadith was also narrated from Yasar. The hadith is hasan garib.
2190-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) told about the night of Isra and Miraj. He told us that whichever group of angels he visited said to him, "Order your ummah to have blood drawn." (Abu Dawud, Medicine: 3; Ibn Majah: Medicine: 20) This hadith is hasan garib as a narration by Ibn Mas'ud.
2191-) According to the narration from Ikrima (radiyallahu anh), he said: Ibn Abbas had three servants who knew how to draw blood, two of them would provide income for him and his family. Someone was doing bloodletting. Ikrima said: Ibn Abbas said: "How good is the Prophet (pbuh), a slave and servant who knows how to draw blood. It takes the blood, relieves the burden of the sulb. It makes eyes see brightly. Ibn Abbas continued as follows: "The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, 'Continue to have blood drawn, whichever group of angels they met in Miraj'. Again, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The best days to have blood drawn are the seventeenth, nineteenth and twenty-first days of every lunar month." The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "The best medicines you use for treatment are nasal drops, syrup, blood draw and laxatives". When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sick, his uncle Abbas and some other people forced him to drink syrup without his consent. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked me who had given me syrup. They all fell silent, so everyone except his uncle Abbas was given a drink of that syrup. (Ebû Dâvûd, Medicine: 3; İbn Mâce: Medicine: 20) b. Humayd says: Nadr said: Ledûd = Vecur means that it is a liquid medicine taken orally. This hadith is hasan garib. Abbad b. We know it as the narration of Mansur. A hadith was also narrated from Aisha on the subject.
2192-) According to the narration from Salma (radiy-Allâhu anha), the grandmother of Ubeydullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), she used to serve the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to order me to put henna on a knife wound if it was a wound made of stones and thorns." (Ibn Majah, Medicine: 29) This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only through the narration of Faid. Some narrated this hadith from Faid and said, “Ubeydullah b. Ali and his grandmother are from Selma,” they said. Ubeydullah b. Ali's narration is more solid. Selma: It is called in Sülma.
2193-) Muhammed b. Ala, Zayd b. Hubab through Ubeydullah b. Ali's freed slave, Faid, from his master, Ubeydullah b. They narrated a similar hadith from Ali's grandmother in terms of meaning.
2194-) Muğîre b. According to the narration from the father of Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever tries to be treated by cauterization and wants to be cured by wearing amulets means he has deviated from putting his trust in Allah." (Ebû Dâvûd, Medicine: 17; İbn Mâce: Medicine: 39) İbn Mes'ûd, İbn Abbas, Imran b. A hadith was also narrated from Husayn. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2195-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) allowed to be treated against all kinds of poisoning, eye contact and some boils against the evil eye.” (Ibn Majah: Medicine: 35; Abu Dawud, Medicine: 18)
2196-) Mahmud b. Gaylân, Yahya b. From Asım al-Ahvel, from Sufyan through Adem and Abu Nuaym, from Yusuf b. Abdullah b. Quoting al-Harîs and Anas, he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) allowed treatment by reading against all kinds of poisoning and boils. This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith is with me by Muawiya b. It is stronger than Hisham's narration from Sufyan. In this regard, Burayde, Imran b. Husayn, Câbir, Aisha, Talk b. Ali Amr b. Hadith was also narrated from Hazm and Abu Huzam's father.
2197-) Imran b. It was narrated from Husayn (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It can be cured against evil eye and poisoning by reading." (Ibn Majah: Medicine: 35; Abu Dawud, Medicine: 18) Shu'ba narrated this hadith similarly from Husayn, Sha'bi, Burayda.
2198-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took refuge in Allah from the evil of the jinn and recited prayers. left and began to recite these two surahs.” (Nesai, Consultation: 37; Ebû Dâvûd, Medicine: 19) A hadith was also reported from Enes on this subject. The hadith is hasan garib.
2199-) According to the narration from Asma bint Umays (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “O Messenger of Allah! The evil eye is on the children of Cafer, should we read them for treatment? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said yes. They said, "If there was anything that could change destiny, it would be a coincidence." (Ibn Majah: Medicine: 33; Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 18) Imran b. Hadith was also narrated from Husayn and Burayda. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2200-) This hadith is also from Ayyub, Amr b. From Dinar, Urve b. From Âmir, Ubayd b. It is also narrated from Rifaa and Esma bint Umays. as Hasen b. Hadiths were also narrated from Abdurrezzak, Ma'mer and Ayyub through Ali el Hallal.
2201-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was his grandson; They used to treat Hasan and Hussein by reciting them as follows, and Ibrahim (alayhis-salâm) used to treat his sons Ismail and Ishaq in the same way. “I seek refuge in Allah from all kinds of devils, harmful animals and evil eye with all the perfect words of Allah.” (Ibn Majah: Medicine: 38; Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 19) b. Ali el Hallal, Yazid b. Through Harun and Abdurrezzak, a similar hadith has been transmitted to us from Sufyan and Mansur as meaning. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2202-) Hâbis et Tamimi (radiy-Allâhu anh) says: (Ibn Majah: Medicine: 43; Abu Dawud, Medicine: 24)
2203-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If there was something that could change fate and change it, it could have been a sting of the eye. If a person whose eye is touched in the event of eye contact is asked to wash, he should wash it immediately." (Muslim, Selam: 27) In this regard, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Yahya b. from ebî Kesîr, Hayye b. They narrated this hadith from Habîs, his father, and Abu Huraira. Ali b. Mubarak and Harb b. They do not mention Abu Huraira in the shaddad hadith.
2204-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent us as a detachment. We stopped by a tribe's town and asked them to host us, but they did not welcome us. Then the scorpion stung the chiefs of the tribe, and came to us; Is there anyone among you who can read against scorpion stings? they said. I said yes, I'm in, but if you give us sheep, I can read and heal your tribal chief. They said we will give you thirty sheep, we accepted and I read Surah Fatiha seven times, the chief of the tribe was healed immediately and we took the sheep. This time, we had doubts about buying the sheep. We said, "Do not rush until we reach the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). When I got to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) I told him what we had done and he said: "How did you know that Surah Fatiha would be read in such diseases? Take the sheep and set aside a share for me.” (Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 19; İbn Mâce: Medicine: 37) This hadith is hasan. Nadre's name was Münzîr b. Malik b. It is Kataa. Imam Shafi'i allows the Qur'an teacher to charge against teaching the Qur'an. He says that it is permissible for the teacher of the Qur'an to stipulate receiving wages, and he cites this hadith as evidence. Jafar b. iyas, Cafer b. ebi Vahashiyya. It is said in Abu Bishr. Shu'ba, Abu Avane, Hisham and many others have narrated this hadith from Abu Bishr, Abu Mutawakkil and Abu Said.
2205-) According to the narration from Abu Bishr (radiyallahu anh), he said: While they were saying that they had stopped by and did not host them, the lord of the tribe became ill. They also came to us; Do you have any medicine with you? they said; We said yes too. However, we said that we would not do this job unless you set a fee because you did not host and host us, but they put forward a flock of sheep. One of us started to recite Surah Fatiha to that person, and that person was healed immediately. When we came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), we explained the situation to him. He commanded. This did not forbid us because of our work and said: "Eat and save me a share." (Abu Dawud, Medicine: 19; Ibn Majah: Medicine: 37) This hadith is authentic. This narration is by A'meş, Cafer b. It is more authentic than the narration from Iyas. Many people derive this hadith from Abu Bishr, Jafar b. Ebî Wildyye, Ebû'l Mütevekkil, Ebû Said, Cafer b. They narrated from Iyas. This is Jafar; Jafar b. Ebi Wildyye.
2206-) According to a narration from the father of Abu Huzama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said, “O Messenger of Allah! Do you think that what you do in the form of reading, the drugs we use and all kinds of protection measures will prevent something from Allah's destiny? In the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); All of them are from Allah's destiny. (Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 19; İbn Mâce: Medicine: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2207-) Said b. Abdurrahman narrated a similar hadith from Sufyan, Zuhri, and Abu Huzam's father. This hadith is hasan authentic. It was transferred from Ibn Uyayna in both narrations. While some said "From Ibn Abi Huzame and his father", some just said "From Abu Huzam". Except for Ibn Uyayna, this hadith has been reported from Zuhri, Abu Huzama and his father, which is more authentic. We know only this hadith from the father of Abu Huzam.
2208-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Acwa dates are among the fruits of Paradise; There is healing against poison. Mushrooms or truffles, on the other hand, are manna-like sustenance that is produced by people without the effort of planting, and its juice is a cure for the eyes.” (İbn Mâce, Medicine: 8) In this regard, Said b. Hadith was also narrated from Zayd, Abu Said and Jabir. This hadith is hasan garib, and Muhammad b. Narrated by Amr. This hadith is only attributed to Said b. Amr, Muhammed b. We know it from the narration of Amr.
2209-) Said b. According to a narration from Zayd, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: “Mushrooms or Truffles; It is a sustenance in the form of halvah, which was given to the sons of Israel at the time of Moses, produced without the hassle of planting bread and without human labor involved. Its water is also healing for the eyes.” (Ibn Majah, Medicine: 8) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2210-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), some people said: “The mushroom or truffle plant is the smallpox of the earth to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Mushrooms or truffles; It is a sustenance in the form of manna and its water is healing for the eyes. Acve dates; It is one of the fruits of Paradise and is a cure against poison.” (Ibn Majah, Medicine: 8; Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 12) This hadith is hasan.
2211-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I took three, five or seven mushrooms or truffles, squeezed them, put the juice in a glass bowl, rubbed the eye of one of my concubines with it, and it got better." (Ibn Majah, Medicine: 8; Abu Davud, Medicine: 12)
2212-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Black seed is good as a cure for every disease except death." (İbn Mâce, Medicine: 6) it says: Twenty-one black cumin seeds are soaked in a cloth for each day and every day, one drop of that water into the right nostril of the nose, one drop into the left nostril the next day, two drops into the right nostril on the third day, and two drops into the right nostril on the third day. It can be treated by dripping a single drop into both left holes.
2213-) According to the narration from Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the money obtained in the purchase and sale of dogs, the money obtained by committing adultery, and the wages of the soothsayer = fortune teller. In other words, it is possible for a Muslim to come and earn money in these ways.” (Abu Dawud, Medicine: 21) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2214-) According to the narration from the brother of Isa (radiyallahu anh), he said: “Humra = Abdullah b. We went to Ukeym, Abu Ma'bed al-Juheni and said: Amulet beads etc. to cure this disease. don't you wear He replied as follows. Death is closer than that thing I'm going to wear. Because the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever wears something to protect himself from certain things, he will be left to the protection of the thing he wears." (Ebû Dâvûd, Medicine: 17) Abdullah b. Only Muhammad b. Abdurrahman b. We know it through the narration of Abi Layla. Abdullah b. Ukeym did not hear anything from the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). He says that he wrote to us in the time of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as follows.
2215-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Yahya b. He narrated a similar hadith from Said and Ibn Abi Layla. In this regard, Uqbe b. A hadith was also narrated from Amir.
2216-) Rafi b. It was narrated from Hadîç (radiy-Allâhu anh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Malaria is a very severe febrile illness, treat it by cooling it with water." (Ibn Majah, Medicine: 19) Hadiths were also reported from Esma bint ebî Bakr, Ibn Omar, Zubayr's wife Aisha and Ibn Abbas.
2217-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Malaria is a very severe disease like the agitation of Hell, and comfort the patient by cooling him with water.” (İbn Mâce, Medicine: 19) b. Ishaq: Through Abde, Hisham b. They narrated a similar hadith to us from Urwa, Munzir's daughter Fatima, and Abu Bakr's daughter Asma. The hadith of Asma is longer than this one. Both hadiths are valid.
2218-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) taught to pray the following prayer against malaria and all kinds of painful diseases: from the loss of blood and the heat of every fire.” (Ibn Majah, Medicine: 19) This hadith is strange. Only Ibrahim b. Ismail b. We know from the narration of Abi Habiba. It has been noted that Ibrahim was weak in hadith. It is also narrated as "Irkun ya'arun".
2219-) According to a narration from Wahb's daughter, Judama (radiyallahu anha), she said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: “I wanted to forbid sexual intercourse with a nursing woman or breastfeeding a pregnant woman, but Iranians and Even though the Greeks do this, their children do not die, so I do not ban it.” (Ibn Majah, Medicine: 16) A hadith is also reported from Esma bint Yazid on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic. Malik narrated this hadith to us from Abu'l Aswad, Urwa, Âisha, and Cüdame bint Wahb, and explains the word "Gıyal" in the hadith as "having sexual intercourse with a woman who is breastfeeding".
2220-) According to the narration from Wahb's daughter, Judama (radiy-Allâhu anh), she heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) himself say the following: “I wanted to forbid sexual intercourse with a woman who is breastfeeding a child. But they told me that the Greeks and Iranians are doing this, and their children are not harmed, so I gave up on this idea.” (Abu Dâvûd, Medicine: 16) says: "Gile" is the sexual intercourse of a man with a woman who is breastfeeding a child. b. Ahmed says: Ishaq b. Isa transmitted the same hadith from Abu'l Aswad to me through Malik. This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
2221-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Erkam (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would recommend using olive oil and a yellow and fragrant herb called vers against Zat-ul-cenb disease.” (İbn Mâce, Medicine: 17) Those who suffer from this disease take this mixture orally and use it. This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Abdullah's name is Maymun. Basra is an old man.
2222-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Erkam (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recommend a mixture of olive oil and buckthorn grass called vomit bahri for Zat-ul-cenb disease.” (Ibn Majah, Medicine: 17) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. Only Zayd b. We know from Erkam through Maymun's narration. Many people have narrated this hadith from Maimun.
2223-) Osman b. According to a narration from Eb'il As (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to me. At that time, I had a very painful pain. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Put your right hand on the aching place and say seven times: "I seek refuge in Allah's power and strength from the evil of the pain I feel." He says: I did exactly what the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) commanded. God relieved my pain, now I recommend this prayer to everyone.” (Abu Dawud, Medicine: 19) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2224-) According to the narration from Asma bint Umays (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), what medicine do you use as a laxative for him? Said. When Esma said: I am using the herb of Shubrum, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said that it causes severe diarrhea. Esma: Then I started using senna. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If anything could cure death, it would be senna. (Ibn Majah, Medicine: 12) This hadith is hasan garib. “Sena” (cassia) means laxative.
2225-) According to what was reported from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said, “My brother has a stomachache. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) ordered him to drink honey syrup. After making him drink honey syrup, he came again and said, O Messenger of Allah! Said; I drank honey syrup, but the stomachache increased. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to drink honey syrup again. The man made him drink, then he came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said, 'I made him drink honey, but the pain did not go away. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The word of Allah is true and true. He said that he should drink honey syrup, and that person drank honey syrup again and recovered.” (Bukhari, Medicine: 4) This hadith is hasan sahih.
2226-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If any Muslim servant visits a patient whose death is not near and recites this prayer seven times, he will definitely find healing." “I ask Allah, the Great and the Great, and the Owner of the Great Throne, to heal him.” (Bukhari, Merda: 14) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Minhal b. We know from the narration of Amr.
2227-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If one of you gets malaria, know well that malaria is a piece of fire. Let him extinguish it with water, after the morning prayer, before the sun rises, he enters a river or a stream, stands against the flow of water, and says, "In the name of Allah, my God, heal your servant and confirm your Prophet, let him dive into the stream three times, three times if he does not heal, five, seven or nine times he should dive into the water. By Allah's leave, it passes before it reaches nine." (Bukhari, Marda: 22) This hadith is strange.
2228-) According to the narration from Abu Hazim (radiyallahu anh), he said: “Sahl b. Sa'd was asked what treatment the wound of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in Uhud was treated with, and I was hearing what was being said. Sahl replied: No one knows this better than me. Ali: He was carrying water in his shield, and Fatima was washing the places where the blood was smeared. Then a piece of straw was burned and its ashes were placed on the wound.” (Bukhari, Medicine: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2229-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The example of a patient who has recovered and is healthy is like hail falling from the sky in terms of purity and colour. In other words, it has acquired a pure and sweet color.” (Bukhari, Medicine: 27)
2230-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When you go to a sick person for a visit, raise your morale by saying that he will recover, although this statement does not prevent anything, but the heart of the patient is heartened. it would be nice.” (Bukhari, Medicine: 29) This hadith is hasan garib.
2231-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) visited a patient with a fever and gave the good news of that patient, and Allah said: “This is my fever. I gave this disease to my sinful servant in order to get rid of his sins by giving his share in hell in this world.” (Bukhari, Medicine: 28)
2232-) According to the narration from Hasan (radiyallahu anh), he said: "It is hoped that suffering from a fever for one night will reduce some of your sins." (Bukhari, Medicine: 28)
2233-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever leaves wealth, it belongs to his heirs. And whoever leaves poor and needy people, the care of those people belongs to me.” (Muslim, Feraiz: 4) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith was also narrated from Jabir and Anas on the subject. Zuhri narrated this hadith from Abu Salama, from Abu Huraira, in a longer and more complete manner than the one here. The meaning of the word means someone who has nothing. I take care of him and make a living.
2234-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Learn the Qur'an and the science of feraiz, and teach it to people, and I will surely die one day." (Ibn Mâce, Feraiz: 1; Dârimî, Feraiz: 1) There is confusion in the document of this hadith.
2235-) Abu Usama reported this hadith from Awf, a man, from Sulayman b. It was narrated from Jabir and Ibn Mas'ud. Likewise, Husayn b. Hureys; He quoted a similar hadith in terms of meaning from Abu Usama and Awf. Muhammed b. Qasim al-Asediyyi: Ahmed b. Hanbal and other hadith scholars considered it weak.
2236-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: Sa'd b. He came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) with his two daughters from Rabî's wife Sa'd; O Messenger of Allah! Said. These are Sa'd. b. Rabi's daughters. Their father was martyred in Uhud. The uncle of these girls took all the property and left nothing to them. He said that these children cannot marry because they have no property. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Allah will decide on this matter," and the verse of inheritance was revealed at the end. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) sent a message to the girls' uncle and said: "Give two of them to Sa'd's two daughters, one-eighth belongs to their mother, and the rest is yours." (Bukhari, Feraiz: 4; Ibn Mâce: Feraiz: 2) This hadith is authentic and only Abdullah b. Muhammed b. We know from the narration of Ukayl. This hadith is also in the Sharik; Abdullah b. Muhammed b. He narrated from Ukayl.
2237-) Huzeyl b. According to the narration from Shurahbil (radiyallahu anh), he said: A man called Abu Musa and Sulayman b. When he came to Rabia and inquired about the shares of your daughter, your son, your daughter, and one of your parents, they both said: “Half is your daughter, the rest is your sister, whose parents are one.” They said, "You go to Abdullah, ask him, and what he said will match ours." The man came to Abdullah and explained the situation, and when he told him what those two people had said, Abdullah said: “If I obeyed what they said, I would have done wrong and would have gone astray from the right path. However, I will give a verdict on this issue as the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) gave: "Half of it belongs to your daughter, to your son's daughter one-sixth falls, so that the completion of two-thirds is your son's daughter, and the rest is your sister's." (Bukhari, Feraiz: 7; Abu Dâvûd, Feraiz: 4) This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Kays el Evedi is Abdurrahman b. He is Servan and is from Kufe. Shu'ba narrates this hadith from Abu Qays.
2238-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “You are reading the verse of the 12th verse of Nisa period: “After your will and debt are paid…” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) decreed that the debt be paid before the will. has given. Parents and siblings receive a share of the inheritance. A person inherits from his sibling, whose parents are one. Not one of his brothers who are one from the father.” (Ibn Mâce Vesâyâ: 46; Dârimî, Feraiz: 17)
2239-) Bundar, Yazid b. Zakariyya b. They conveyed the hadith from Ebî Zaide, Abu Ishaq, Haris and Ali to us.
2240-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) decreed that not brothers who are one from the father, but brothers whose parents are the same, should inherit from each other.” (Dârimî, Feraiz: 7) We know this hadith only through the narration of Abu Ishaq from Ali through Haris, and some scholars have talked about Haris. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith.
2241-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to visit me when I was sick to the sons of Salamah. I said, O Prophet of Allah. How should I divide my property among my children? After he gave me no answer, the 11th verse of the chapter of Nisa was revealed: “Allah commands you regarding the inheritance that your children will receive: The man will receive an amount equal to the share of two women, and if the female heirs are more than two, they will be given two-thirds of what their parents left behind. If the woman has only one, she will get half of it. As for the parents of the deceased, each of them has a sixth share if he leaves a child behind. But if he left no children and his parents are heirs, his mother will receive one-third, and the rest will belong to the father. If the deceased has brothers and sisters, then his mother will be given a sixth. All these distributions will be after the will and debts of the deceased are paid and fulfilled. As for your parents and children, you do not know which one is more deserving of the benefits and opportunities that you will leave behind. These are the shares decided by Allah. Surely, Allah is the One Who knows everything, and does what he does appropriately.” (Darimi, Feraiz: 5; Bukhari, Feraiz: 12) This hadith is hasan authentic. Shu'ba, Ibn Uyeyna and others reported this hadith from Muhammad b. They narrated from Munkadir and Jabir.
2242-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he says: “I got sick when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to visit me and found me unconscious. Then they came to me on foot, accompanied by Abu Bakr and Umar. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made wudu and poured some of the wudu water on me, which I immediately separated. Then O Messenger of Allah! Said. What should I decide about my property or what should I do with my property? He didn't give me any answer. At that time, Jabir had nine sisters. Finally, the 176th verse of the chapter of Nisa was revealed: “They want an answer from you. Say: Allah explains to you the judgment regarding the inheritance of a fatherless and childless person: If a deceased person has no children and has a sister, half of the property he left belongs to that sister. But if the deceased sister has no children, she, that is, her brother, will inherit her. If he has two sisters, they have two-thirds of what he left behind. But if the heirs are many brothers or sisters, then the woman has two shares for the man. Allah makes clear to you His judgment on all matters so that you do not go astray. God is all-knowing.” says: This verse was revealed about me. (Bukhari, Feraiz: 11; Dârimî, Feraiz: 5) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2243-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "Deliver the shares of those who have a share of the inheritance to their owners, the rest is for the closest male person." (Dârimî, Feraiz: 28; İbn Mâce: Feraiz: 10)
2244-) Abd b. Humayd conveyed a similar hadith to us from Ma'mer, Ibn Tawus, his father, and Ibn Abbas through Abdurrezzak. This hadith is hasan. Some narrate this hadith from Ibn Tawus and his father as mursal.
2245-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiyallahu anh), a man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: "My son is dead, what will happen to me from his inheritance? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Your share is one sixth." The man called as he turned and said; He said, "There is one more out of six for you because you are asabe." Again, as the man turns away; They said, "There is no tip given in the last six, the room is your right, you can eat it too." (Dârimî, Feraiz: 10; Abu Dâvûd: Feraiz: 6) This hadith is hasan authentic. On the subject of Ma'kil b. Hadith was also narrated from Yasar.
2246-) Kabîsa b. According to the narration from Zueyb (radiyallahu anh), he said: “A grandmother; mother's mother or father's mother came to Abu Bakr; He said, "My son's son and my daughter's son died. Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) said: I do not see any share in the Qur'an that is your right. I did not hear that the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) gave you a share. He said, "I will investigate this matter from some people and I will answer you." One of the people he asked was Muğîre b. Shu'ba said: After witnessing that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) gave one sixth to his grandmother, he asked, "Who heard this other than you?" Muğîre: Muhammed b. He said mess. Thereupon, Abu Bakr decided to give Nine one-sixth of a share. Later, another grandmother came to Umar to ask for a fatwa on this issue.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Feraiz: 5; Dârimî Feraiz: 19) says: In this hadith, Ma'mer narrated from Zuhri in addition to me. I did not memorize this addition from Zuhri himself. But I have memorized that addition from Ma'mer: Omar said: “That one-sixth of a share, if you have two nines together; If there is only one person, it belongs to that person.”
2247-) Kabîsa b. According to the narration from Zueyb (radiyallahu anh), he said: A grandmother came to Abu Bakr and asked him about his inheritance. Abu Bakr: You have no share in Allah's book, nor do you have any share in the Sunnah of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). He said, 'You go for now, I'll investigate the matter. While Abu Bakr was investigating some people, Muğîre b. Shu'ba said, 'I was with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and gave the grandmother one sixth share. upon Abu Bakr; Does anyone else know about this subject? said. Muhammed b. Mesleme stood up and the issue was Muğîre b. As Shu'ba said. Said. Abu Bakr also applied the one-sixth rule for the woman who came. another grandmother, Umar b. He came to Khattab and asked him about his inheritance. Umar said to him, “There is no share for you in Allah's book, but what you will get is one sixth of it. If you have two grandmothers together, you are partners in that one-sixth, if you are alone, one-sixth is yours.” (Abu Dâvûd, Feraiz: 5; Dârimî Feraiz: 19) A hadith was also reported from Burayda on this subject. This hadith is more authentic than the hadith of Ibn Uyayna.
2248-) Abdullah b. Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); He said about the grandmother who was with her son: “She is the first grandmother who was found with her son by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and gave him one sixth even though her son was alive.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Feraiz: 5; Dârimî Feraiz: 19) We know this hadith as merfu only in this way. Some of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) gave inheritance to the grandmother along with his son, while others did not.
2249-) Abu Umama b. Sahl b. According to the narration from Hunayf (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar b. Khattab wrote to Ubayda and sent him the following: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah and his Prophet are the heirs of those who have no heirs. An uncle is the heir of anyone who does not have an heir." (Ibn Mâce, Feraiz: 10) Aisha and Mıkdam b. Hadith was also narrated from Madi'karib. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2250-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "An uncle is the heir of a person who has no heirs." (Ibn Majah, Feraiz: 10) The hadith is hasan garib. Those who narrated it did not narrate this hadith as mursal and did not say "from Aisha" in its deed. The Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) differed about the inheritance of his uncle. Some of them grant the right of inheritance to uncles, aunts and aunts, and the majority of scholars, based on this hadith, allocate a share of the inheritance to the close relatives in making Zevil erham (close relatives) heirs. Zayd b. On the other hand, Sabit gives the right of inheritance to these close relatives and transfers the remaining inheritance to Beytülma.
2251-) It was narrated from Aisha (radiyallahu anha). One of the slaves freed by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) fell from a date branch and died. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Look, does this person have an heir? They also said "No". The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Give his property to some of the people of his village." (Abu Dâvûd, Feraiz: 12; Dârimî, Feraiz: 31) This hadith is hasan.
2252-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “A man died during the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and left no heirs other than the slave he freed. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) gave his inheritance to the slave he had freed.” (Dârimî, Feraiz: 9) This hadith is hasan. The opinion of the scholars on this issue is as follows: If a person dies and no heirs are left behind, that person's inheritance is transferred to the state treasury of the Muslims.
2253-) Usama b. According to what is reported from Zayd (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A disbeliever cannot inherit a Muslim.” (Dârimî, Feraiz: 29; Buhârî, Feraiz: 25) Ömer conveyed a similar hadith to us from Zühri through Sufyan. In this regard, from Jabir, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith is hasan authentic. Ma'mar and many others have narrated a similar hadith from Zuhri. Malik; Zuhrî, Ali b. Husayn, Umar b. Osman, Usama b. He narrated a similar hadith from Zayd. In Malik's hadith, Malik has delusions. Narrated by Malik, “Amr b. They said, "From Osman". Most of Malik's men were from "Malik and Umar b. They say, "From Osman". b. Osman b. Affan is the famous of Osman's children. Umar b. We don't know Osman. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. Scholars disagreed about the inheritance of the person who converted. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), his companions and many scholars after him said: “When giving his inheritance to his Muslim heirs; Others say: "Muslim heirs cannot inherit from him." They take the hadith of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) "A Muslim cannot inherit from an unbeliever" as evidence. Shafi'i is of this opinion.
2254-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Societies with different religions cannot inherit from one another.” (Darimi Feraiz: 29; Abu Dâvûd, Feraiz: 10) We know that this hadith is Jabir's hadith only through the narration of Ibn Layla.
2255-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "A murderer cannot inherit." (Dârimî, Feraiz: 41; İbn Mâce, Feraiz: 8) This hadith is not authentic. It is known only in this form. One of the narrators of the hadith, Ishaq b. Abdullah b. Abi Ferve among them Ahmed b. Some hadith scholars, including Hanbal, abandoned them. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith, "The murderer cannot inherit, even if the act of killing is by mistake or by mistake. Some scholars say that if the killing is done by mistake, he can inherit it”, whose imam Malik is one of them.
2256-) Said b. According to what is reported from Musayyeb (radiyallahu anh), he said: Omar; He said: “The diet is on relatives from the father's side. Therefore, a woman cannot inherit anything from her husband's diet.” Thereupon, Dahhak b. Sûfyan al-Kilâbî informed Umar that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) had informed him by letter, "Give Ushaym ed Dababî's wife an inheritance from her husband's diet." (Dârimî, Feraiz: 36) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2257-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had decreed that a male slave or a concubine be given as a dietary price for the fetus that was dropped dead from a pregnant woman among the sons of Lihyan. Then, the woman who was sentenced to give slaves died, too, upon which the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) decreed that the burden of the diet, which the woman's inheritance belonged to her children and husband, should be borne by her father's male relatives. (Ibn Majah, Feraiz: 10; Abu Dâvûd, Feraiz: 7) Yunus; This hadith is from Zuhri, Said b. He narrated similarly from Musayyeb, Abu Salama and Abu Huraira. Again, this hadith is Malik; As he narrated from Zuhri, Abu Salama and Abu Huraira, also from Zuhri, Said b. He also narrated from Musayyeb as a mursal.
2258-) It was narrated from Tamim-i Dari (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: “I asked what is the way to be followed about a polytheist who became a Muslim through one of the Muslims, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is the person who causes him to become a Muslim.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Feraiz: 11; Dârimî, Feraiz: 42) This hadith was only reported by Abdullah b. We know from the narration of Wahb. It is said that it was also narrated from Ibn Mevhib and Tamimi Dari. While some narrated this hadith, Abdullah b. Between Vehb and Tamimi Dârî, Kabîsa b. They put Zueyb, which is not authentic. Yahya b. Hamza, Abdulaziz b. Narrated by 'Umar, Kabîsa b. He added Zueyb among the narrators. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith. In my opinion, this hadith is not absolute. Scholars, on the other hand, say that the inheritance is transferred to the state treasury, and Shafii is of this opinion. He brings the hadith of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) "The right of vela = the status of being an heir belongs to the person who freed him" as evidence.
2259-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever commits adultery with a free or slave woman and has a child, that child neither inherits nor inherits it." (Dârimî, Feraiz: 45) Other than Ibn Lehia, Amr b. It is narrated by Shuayb himself. According to this hadith, they say, "A child born from adultery cannot inherit from his father."
2260-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "He who inherits mala will inherit vela." (Dârimî, Feraiz: 45) The proof of this hadith is not very solid.
2261-) Vasile b. According to a narration from Aska (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “In some cases, a woman can inherit all three of them. The legacy of the freed slave, the legacy of the orphaned child he found on the street and brought up, and the legacy of the child who was cursed when the child he gave birth to was not accepted by his father.” (Ibn Mâce, Feraiz: 12; Dârimî Feraiz: 55) the hadith is hasan garib. Only Muhammad b. We know from Harbi's narration.
2262-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Abi Wakkas (radiyallahu anh), he said: I fell ill in the year of the conquest of Mecca. I almost faced death. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to visit me. O Messenger of Allah! Said. I have a lot of property, I have no heirs other than my daughter. Can I bequeath all of my property to charity? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "No". Two-thirds of my property? I said again, "No" he said. So half? I said, "No," he said again. One third of me? Said. On top of that, a third is good, but a third is many. It is certainly better for you to leave your heirs rich, than to leave them as poor people with a fistful of people. You earn rewards for every expenditure you make, even a bite that you put out your wife's mouth… Then, O Messenger of Allah! Said. I had migrated. But now I am sick in Mecca, where I migrated, will I be considered to have returned from my migration? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If you stay after me, if you live long enough, Allah will increase your reward and raise your rank for every deed you do in the hope of Allah's approval. If you have a lifetime and you stay behind, some people will benefit from you and some people will be harmed by your sword blows in wars. O Allah, write down the rewards of my Companions completely because of their migration, and do not turn them back… But the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said that Sa'd b. He was saddened by the death of Hawla in Mecca. (Darimi, Testament: 6; Ibn Majah, Vesaya: 5) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith is also transmitted by Sa'd b. It was narrated from Abi Waqqas. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith, and they say that a person has no right to bequeath more than one third of his property. Some scholars, on the other hand, consider it mustahab to make a testament less than one-third after the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "One-third is more."
2263-) Shahr b. According to a narration from Hawshab (radiyallahu anh), Abu Huraira related that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him: "A man or a woman will be busy obedience to Allah for sixty years, so when death comes, they will harm some of their heirs in their will. It will be wâjib for that person to fall into Hell.” Abu Huraira recited the verse 12-13 of the chapter of Nisa to me: “… All these must be done without harming the heirs…” (Ibn Majah, Vesâya: 3; Abu Dâvûd, Vesâyâ: 3) This hadith is hasan sahih. b. Narrating a hadith from Jabir, Nasr b. Ali; Nasr b. He is the grandfather of Ali el Cehzami.
2264-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is not recommended for a Muslim to spend two consecutive nights without his will written in his will (debt, property, property). not befitting.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Vesâyâ: 1; İbn Mâce, Vesâyâ: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic. A similar hadith has been reported from Zuhri, Salim and Ibn Umar.
2265-) Talha b. According to the narration from Mûsârrif (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I asked if the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had a will. He also said no. So how was the will made obligatory and how was it ordered to people? I asked. He said: “He advised to follow the book of Allah.” (Ibn Majah, Testament: 22) This hadith is hasan sahih. Only Malik b. We know it through the narration of Mugvil or Migvel.
2266-) According to the narration from Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) in his sermon during his farewell pilgrimage: "Allah has given every rightful owner his due, so there is no will to inherit. the child belongs to the man or master who owns the bed. The right of the adulterer is to be deprived of inheritance or to be stoned to death. and their reckoning (reward, punishment, forgiveness) rests with Allah. Whoever associates with someone other than his father, that is, says to someone else that this is my father, or claims that he is the master of someone other than a slave owner, the curse of Allah = that he will stay away from his mercy until the Day of Judgment is on him. It is on her to stay away from her husband's house. A woman can spend in her husband's house only with her husband's permission. Meanwhile, O Messenger of Allah! Can't a woman give food to a poor person from her husband's house? It was said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, in fact, it is the most valuable of our goods. Then he continued: Everything borrowed will be paid. The borrowed animal, tree, and land will be returned to its owner. All debts must be paid. If the debtor is not paid, he will pay the debt." (Ebû Dâvûd, Vesâyâ: 1; İbn Mâce, Vesâyâ: 2) Amr b. Hadith was also narrated from Harice and Anas. This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith was also narrated from Abu Umama in different ways. b. The narration of Ayyaş from Iraqis and Hejaz people alone is not very solid. Because he narrates munkar hadiths from them. The narration from the Shamites is more robust. Muhammed b. This is what Ismail said about it. Ahmed b. Hasan, Ahmed b. I heard him narrate from Hanbal: Ismail b. The situation of the drunkard is better than those who quote other munkar hadiths. There are munkar hadiths narrated by others from reliable people. Abdullah b. I heard Abdurrahman saying: Zekeriyya b. I heard from Adiyy that he was saying: Abu Ishaq al-Fezari says: Take the narrations of people called Bakiyya from trusted people Ismail b. Do not take the narrations of Ayyaş, whether he is reliable or from other people. (Bakıyya: Those who cite munkar hadiths other than İsmail b. Ayyaş.)
2267-) Amr b. It was narrated from Harice (radiyallahu anh). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was giving a sermon on his camel, and I was under the camel's neck. While the camel was rubbing and swallowing, its saliva was flowing between the two shoulders. I heard from him and he was saying: “Allah has given every rightful owner his due. Therefore, there is no will to the one who will inherit. The child belongs to the man who owns the bed or the concubine to the master. The right of the adulterer is to be deprived of inheritance. Or to be stoned to death. Whoever believes that this is my father to anyone other than his father, or if a slave claims that he is the master of anyone other than his owner, and severs his ties from his own father and master, the curse of Allah will be upon him. Allah neither accepts the repentance of such people, nor the ransom he will give to get rid of sin.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Vesâyâ: 1; İbn Mâce, Vesâyâ: 2) Ahmed b. I heard Hasan say: Ahmad b. Hanbal said: Shahr b. I don't mind Havsheb's hadith. Muhammed b. Ismail'e Shahr b. I asked about Havsheb. He is a reliable person, but Ibn 'Awn talked about him back and forth and then Hilal b. ebî Zeyneb ve Şehr b. He narrated from Havşeb. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2268-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) decreed that the debt of the deceased be paid before the will. However, you read the testament in the Qur'an before the debt." (Ibn Mâce, Vesâyâ: 7) The practice of the majority of scholars is according to this hadith, and payment starts from debt before the will.
2269-) According to the narration from Abu Habibe et Tai (radiyallahu anh), he said: My brother bequeathed some of his property to me. When I met Abu'd Darda, I said to him: My brother bequeathed some of his property to me; I said: Do you think it would be appropriate for me to spend it on the poor, the needy, or the mujahideen in the way of Allah? If it were me, I would prefer the mujahideen. I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: “A person who frees a slave close to his death; He is like one who donates after he is full.” (Dârimî, Vesâyâ: 34) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2270-) It was narrated from Urwa (radiyallahu anh). Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), to Urve; He stated that Berire had come to ask Aisha for help regarding the cost of the inscription. He had not paid anything from the book price = (the price of getting rid of the contract to get rid of slavery). Aisha said to her: “Go back to your family! If they want me to pay the price of the book on your behalf, with your right of custody to me, I will do this job," he said. When Berire explained the situation to her family, they did not accept it, they said she wishes to do you a favor, on the condition that we have the right of custody. Thereupon, Aisha explained the situation to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Buy it, then set it free, and the right of custody belongs to the person who freed it." Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) stood up and addressed the people and said: “What is wrong with these people that they impose conditions that are not in Allah's book? Whoever stipulates a condition that is not in Allah's book, it is not valid even if he stipulates a hundred times." (Dârimî, Vesâyâ: 34) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Aisha in different ways. The practice of scholars is according to this hadith, and the right of custody belongs to the one who freed the slave.
2271-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she wanted to buy Barira herself and Berire's family wanted the right of custody to belong to them, upon which the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It is the person who pays him or the person who gives him the blessing of freedom by emancipation.” (Muslim, Itk: 2; Nesai, Kasama: 8) A hadith was also narrated from Ibn Omar and Abu Huraira on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic. The practices of scholars are according to this hadith.
2272-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is forbidden to sell or donate the right of vela." (Muslim, Itk: 2; Nesai, Kasame: 8) This hadith is hasan authentic. Only Abdullah b. We know from Dinar's narration from Ibn Umar that in this narration, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade selling or donating the right of vela. Sûfyan es Sevrî and Malik b. Enes reported this hadith from Abdullah b. They narrated from Dinar. It is reported from Shu'ba that he said: "Abdullah b. While Dinar was narrating this hadith, I sincerely wished that he would allow me to get up and kiss him on the forehead.” Yahya b. Salim reported the same hadith from Ubeydullah b. It is narrated from 'Umar, from Nafi, from Ibn 'Umar. However, this narration consists of Vehîm. Yahya b. Suleiman was wrong here. The authentic narration is Ubeydullah b. This is how he narrated from Umar. Abdullah b. Dinar remained alone in this hadith.
2273-) According to a narration from the father of Ibrahim et Taymi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) gave us a sermon one day and said: Those who claim that it is a document that we have read for the Ahl al-Bayt are certainly liars, and continued his sermon as follows: Medina is considered a Harem between Mount Ayr and Mount Sevr; Whoever invokes or embraces a bid'ah here, the curse of Allah, the Angels and all people is upon him. On the Day of Judgment, Allah will not accept that person's repentance, his ransom, or his obligatory and supererogatory acts of worship. Whoever claims to be a father to someone other than his father, or if a slave takes someone other than his master as his master, the curse of Allah, angels and all people will be on these people, and Allah will not accept either their obligatory or supererogatory deeds, nor will their repentance or ransom be accepted from them. The guarantee of Muslims on the subject of dhimma, that is, they undertake and protect them, is one. Even the lowest ones are in the same situation.” (Muslim, Itk: 4) Some from A'meş, İbrahim et Taymî, Harîs b. They conveyed a similar hadith to us from Suveyd and Ali. This hadith is hasan authentic. It has been narrated from Ali in different ways.
2274-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: A man from the Fezare tribe came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: "O Messenger of Allah! My wife gave birth to a black child even though she is white, why is that?” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) asked that man, "Do you have camels?" said. The man said: "Yes". “What are their colors?” he said. “Red,” the man said. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Are there gray camels in it?” said. The man said, "Yes, there are gray camels in it." The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Where did this gray color come from?” He commanded. “Perhaps there is a vein that draws them,” said the man. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "This black-colored son also has a vein that turns black." (Nesai, Talak: 46) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2275-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), one day; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) entered Aisha happily, her face shining brightly and said to Aisha: "Didn't you hear? The person named Mücezziz, who had the same color with a sudden glance, called Zayd b. Harîse and Usâme b. He looked at Zayd's feet and said, "These feet are from each other, that is, they are father and son." (Nesai, Talak: 51) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2276-) Ibn Uyeyna narrated this hadith from Zuhri, Urwa, and Aisha with the following addition: Did not you hear it? Mucezziz had stopped by Harise's son Zayd and Zayd's son Usama. b. Abdurrahman and many others reported this hadith from Sufyan b. They narrated from Uyeyna, Zuhri, Urwa and Aisha. The hadith is hasan authentic. Scholars take this hadith as evidence and say that the decisions of people who know morphology will be respected.
2277-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Give gifts to each other, because a gift removes hatred from the heart. a neighbor woman; Let him not look down on giving a piece of sheep's trotter as a gift to the woman next to him.” (Bukhari, Grant: 5) This hadith is strange in its form. The name of Ma'şer is Necih, the freedman of Beni Hashim. Some hadith scholars criticized this person for his memory.
2278-) According to what was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A person who makes a donation and then returns from it is like a dog that eats until it is full, then vomits and then turns to vomit and eats it." (Muslim, Hıbat: 2) Ibn Abbas and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr.
2279-) According to a narration from Ibn Umar and Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allāhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is not permissible for a person to make a donation and turn away from it. However, the father can return the donation he gave to his child. A person who donates and then returns from his donation is like a dog that eats until he is full and vomits, then comes back and vomits.” (Muslim, Hıbat: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic. He says: It is not permissible for the donor to return from his donation, but only the father can return from the donation he made to his child. Shafi'i cites this hadith as evidence for his view.
2280-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While we were arguing with each other about qadar, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to us and became so angry that his face turned red as if blood would gush from his cheeks, then he said: Was it ordered to argue about it, or am I for these issues? I was sent. The societies before you were destroyed because they quarreled on this issue. I want you not to argue about it, I want you not to argue about it." (It was narrated by Tirmidhi.) There are also hadiths related to this issue from Ömer, Aisha and Enes. The hadith is strange and we know it only through the narration of Salih al-Murri. There are many hadiths that Salih al-Murri narrated alone that they are never followed.
2281-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Adam and Moses had an argument. Moses said: O Adam, God; He created you with his hand, breathed into you from his soul, and gave you life. You caused people to be expelled from Paradise (by eating the forbidden fruit in Paradise). Adam said, "You are Moses, whom God chose to speak with. Why do you condemn me for doing something that God wrote about me before He created the heavens and the earth?" Thus, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Adam was victorious over Musa with his speech with sound proofs". (Muslim, Destiny: 2; Ibn Majah: Mukaddime: 10) A hadith was also reported from Omar and Jundup on this subject. This hadith is hasan sahih garib in this form as it is narrated by Süleyman et Taymi from A'mash. Some of his friends quoted a similar hadith from A'mesh, Abu Salih and Abu Huraira. Some people narrated from A'mesh, from Abu Salih, from Abu Said. The same hadith has been narrated from Abu Huraira in a different way.
2282-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: “Omar: O Messenger of Allah! Said; Is the work we are doing a new job? Or do you think that it was predestined and we are experiencing it now?” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "O Omar, son of Khattab, we are working hard for a job that has been preordained and completed. Everyone will easily succeed in the work that is given to him. So what; The people of happiness will undoubtedly work and strive for happiness, while those who are unhappy will work and strive for unhappiness.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) Ali, Huzeyfe b. Üseyd, Enes, Imran b. A hadith was also narrated from Husayn. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2283-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While we were with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) while scratching the ground with his stick, he suddenly raised his head to the sky and said: “There is no one in Paradise. Let him not know his place and place in Hell, Vekî says: It is not appreciated.” The Companions said: “O Messenger of Allah! So, is it okay to let it happen and put your trust in Allah? He said: "Let's do it": The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "No, work hard and everyone will easily achieve what they were created for." (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 27; Muslim, Destiny: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2284-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), whose truthfulness and accuracy has been confirmed, told us as follows. The work of creation and emergence in the womb of one of you is completed in forty days. Then it becomes alaq = clotted blood in such a long time, then mudga = a piece of meat in that much time, and then Allah sends an angel to that piece and the angel blows a soul into it and that angel is ordered to write four things. His sustenance, his death, his deeds, happy or unhappy? He writes that he will. I swear by Allah, there is no god but Him; One of you will do what the people of Paradise do, and when there is a distance of one cubit between him and Paradise, the fate of unhappiness will prevail, and his book will come to an end with the deeds of the people of Hell, and therefore he will enter Hell. Again, one of you will do the deeds of the people of Hell, and at that moment there will be only one cubit distance between him and Hell, at that moment the fate of happiness will prevail and he will commit the deeds of the people of Paradise, his book of deeds will be closed, and he will enter Paradise. (Muslim, Destiny: 1; Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 10) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2285-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Yahya b. From Said, A'mesh, Zayd b. Wahb and Abdullah b. He narrated it to us from Mas'ud. Abdullah b. Mas'ud: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) narrated a similar hadith by saying that he told us: A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira and Anas on this subject. Ahmed b. I heard from Hasan. Ahmed b. He said that he heard from Hanbal: “Yahya b. Those eyes of mine have never seen someone like Said al-Kattan.” The hadith is hasan authentic, and Shu'ba and Thawri narrated a similar one from Â'mesh.
2286-) Muhammed b. Âla transmitted a similar hadith from Â'meş and Zayd through Vekî'.
2287-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Everyone is born into the nation of Islam. His parents make him a Jew, a Christian, and a polytheist. It was said: What about those who died before they became Jewish Christians and polytheists? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) knew best what they would have done had they lived.” (Muslim, Destiny: 6)
2288-) Ebu Küreyb and Hüseyin b. Hurays said: Wakî' narrated a similar hadith in terms of meaning from A'mash, Abu Salih, and Abu Hurayra. and they said: "He is born on the religion of fitra". This hadith is hasan authentic. Shu'ba and others narrated from Â'mesh, Abu Salih and Abu Huraira. Aswad b. A hadith was also narrated from Surey.
2289-) According to what is reported from Sulayman (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Only prayer prevents accident, and only goodness increases life.” (Ibn Majah, Muqaddimah: 10) A hadith was also reported from Abu Esid on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib as the hadith of Salman. Only Yahya b. We know from the narration of Zaris. Abu Mawdud is two people. Someone is called Fidda, who narrated this hadith. He is from Basra. The other is Abdulaziz b. He is Abu Suleiman and he is from Medina. Both lived in the same period.
2290-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) often used to say, "O Allah, who changed hearts from state to state, make my heart firm on your religion." I said to you, O Messenger of Allah, and we believed in the shari'ah you brought, so are you still afraid about us? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Yes, because hearts are between two fingers of Allah, He can turn them around as He wishes. (Muslim, Destiny: 3) In this regard, Nevvâs b. Sem'an, Umm Salama, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr and Aisha. This hadith is hasan. Likewise, many people have narrated this hadith from Â'mesh, Abu Sufyan and Anas. Others narrated from Â'mesh, Abu Sufyan and Jabir. The narration of Abu Sufyan from Anas is more authentic.
2291-) Abdullah b. Amr b. According to a narration from As', the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came one day with two books in his hand and said: Do you know what these two books are? Neither do we, O Messenger of Allah! We said we would know if you let us know. Then for the book in his right hand; This book is a book from the Lord of the worlds and the names of the people of Paradise, the names of their fathers and the names of the tribes are in this book. It was written and collected until the last of the people of Paradise. Their number will not be increased or decreased. Then for the book in his left hand, this book is a book from the Lord of all the worlds, containing the names of the people of Hell, their fathers and their tribes, and it was written and collected up to the last of the Hellfires. He said that their number will not be increased or decreased. Thereupon, the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) O Messenger of Allah! they said. What good is our effort if the situation is already completed and finished? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Be straight! Increase your good deeds. Because the deeds of the people of Paradise will end with the deeds of the people of Paradise, no matter what deed they do. No matter what deed he has done, the person who will enter Hell will also end up with the deeds of the people in Hell. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) dropped those two books from his hands and said: "Because your Lord knows everything that your servants will do, He has written their destinies according to him. Some of them will be Heaven and some will be Hell.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 10) Bekir b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Abu Qabil through Mudar. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Umar on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib. Kabil's name: Hubey b. He is Hani.
2292-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If Allah wants good for a servant, he uses it. Thereupon, O Messenger of Allah! It was said, how does he use his servant? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "He will enable him to do righteous deeds before he dies." (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 10) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2293-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sitting among us, he gave a sermon and said: "There is no contagion." A Bedouin said: We put a mangy camel in a corral, and eventually all the camels get mange. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Who was the first camel to have scabies? There is no such thing as contagiousness and bad luck. Allah has created every living thing, and He has determined its life, sustenance and what will happen to it. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Abu Hurayra, Ibn Abbas and Anas. Basrali Muhammed b. Amr b. I heard it from Safvân es Sekafi Ali b. He told us that he heard Medînî say: I swear that I have never seen anyone more knowledgeable than the Mahdi."
2294-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Unless a servant believes that good and evil are from Allah; In fact, he cannot reach true faith unless he knows with certainty that something that happens to him will not surprise him and go away, and that something that bypasses him is not possible to return to him.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) In this regard, Ubade, Câbir, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. This hadith is garib and only Abdullah b. We know by the narration of Maymun. Abdullah b. Maymun, on the other hand, is someone who conveys munkar hadiths.
2295-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A person cannot be a believer unless he believes in four things;
2296-) Muhammed b. Gaylân, Nadr b. He transmitted a similar hadith from Shu'ba to us through Şümeyl, and it says "Rıb'i, from a man and from Ali" in the document of the hadith. I think the hadith narrated by Abu Dawud from Shu'ba is more authentic than the narration of Nadr. Similarly, many people have narrated this hadith from Mansur, Rib'i and Ali. He tells us what he heard from Vekî and says: It is among the information that has reached me that Rib'î never tells a lie in Islam.
2297-) Matar b. According to the narration from Ukamis (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When Allah decrees that a servant should die in a certain place, he directs his work there.” (Musnad: 20980) A hadith has also been reported from Abu Azza on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib. Matar b. We do not know that Ukamis narrated other hadiths from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam).
2298-) Mahmud b. Gaylan narrated a similar hadith from Abu Dawud al-Hufri and Sufyan through Muemmel.
2299-) According to the narration from Abu Azza (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If Allah has decreed that a servant should die in a place, he will do something for him there or there." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is authentic. Azze is a Sahabi and his name is Yesâr b. is abd. Ebû'l Melih's name is Amir b. Usama b. Umayr al-Huzali, Zayd b. Also called Usama.
2300-) According to the narration from the father of Abu Huzama (radiy-Allâhu anh): A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “O Messenger of Allah, our ways of treatment and diets, such as reading and using medicine, are Allah's. Do you think it will prevent something from your destiny? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "They are from Allah's destiny." (Muslim, Destiny: 4) We know this hadith only through Zuhri's narration. Many people have narrated the same hadith through Sufyan from Zuhri, Abu Huzam and his father, which is more reliable. Again, different people have narrated the same hadith to us from Zuhri, Abu Huzam and his father.
2301-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “There are two groups from my ummah that have no share in Islam; Murjie and Qadariyye.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 10) In this regard, Omar, Ibn Omar, Rafi' b. Hadith was also narrated from hadith. The hadith garib hasan is authentic.
2302-) Muhammed b. Rafî', Muhammed b. Salam b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abi Amra, Ikrima and Ibn Abbas.
2303-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from the father of Shihhir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Ninety-nine dangers of death surround each and every one of the sons of Adam. Even if he overcame these dangers, he faces the danger of old age and eventually dies.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. We only know this way. Avvam is Imran's tag and is also called Ibn Dawud al Kattan.
2304-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Abi Wakkas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It makes him happy if the son of Adam is satisfied with what is appreciated by Allah. His abandonment of consenting to the accident is due to his misfortune. Again, abandoning asking for goodness from Allah is due to his misfortune, and being angry with what Allah has ordained is also due to his unhappiness.” (Musnad: 1368) This hadith is garib. This hadith is only reported by Muhammad b. We know from the narration of Humayd. To this person Hammad b. It is said in Abi Humayd. It is also called Abu Ibrahim al Madani. He is not a very strong person next to hadith scholars.
2305-) According to the narration from Nafi' (radiyallahu anh): "A man came to Ibn Omar and said, "Someone greets you." Upon this; Abdullah b. Umar said: According to the information I have received, that person is a person who has denied destiny by introducing innovations into religion. If he is a person who has really put bidat, do not say hello to him from me; Because I am from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) because of those who deny destiny in this ummah or my ummah, there will be mass sinking events, calamities in the form of shape change, disasters such as being under stones and mass deaths in the form of being under ruins." (Muslim, Destiny: 7; Ibn Majah, Fitan: 29) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Abu Sahr's name is Humayd b. It is Ziyad.
2306-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "There will be disasters in the form of disgrace and shape change among my Ummah because of those who deny destiny." (Muslim, Destiny: 7; Ibn Majah, Fitan: 29)
2307-) According to a narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There are six people, me, Allah and every prophet, that is, they wanted them to stay away from Allah's mercy. 1- Those who add to the Book of Allah, 2- Deny qadar, 3- Those who try to show high what Allah considers low and try to humiliate what they consider high, 4- Those who consider halal what Allah has made unlawful, 5- Those who are from my Ahl al-bayt and still consider haram things halal , 6- Those who turn away from my circumcision and abandon it.” (It was narrated by Tirmidhi.) Likewise, Abdurrahman b. A hadith has also been narrated from Ab'il Mavali. Again, this hadith was written by Ubeydullah b. Abdurrahman b. It is also narrated from Mevheb, Amre and Aisha. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Hafs b. Gıyas and many people related this hadith to Ubeydullah b. Abdurrahman b. From Mevhib, Ali b. They narrated from Husayn as a mursal, which is more authentic.
2308-) Abdulvahid b. According to what is reported from Sulaym (radiyallahu anh), he said: I came to Mecca, Ata b. When I met Abi Rebah, I said to him: "O Abu Muhammad". What do you think the people of Basra say unstable things about fate? He said: My son, do you read the Qur'an? I said yes, he said read Surah Zuhruf; I read the four verses of Surah Zuhruf saying, "Him, we have sent down this book, which reveals the facts of the mind, in Arabic so that you can ponder and comprehend it. Do you know what the main book is? Said. I said, 'Allah and His Messenger know. He said: It is such a book or destiny; It is a book written by Allah before Allah created the heavens and the earth, in which it is written that Pharaoh is in Hell and that Abu Lahab will perish with all his means. Ata says: Ubade b. I met Sâmit's son, Walid, and told him; What was his father's will at the time of his death? I asked. He said: My father called me and said: O my son, be constantly conscious of Allah, and be aware that it is possible to reach the consciousness of responsibility towards Allah only by believing in Allah and believing that all good and bad destinies come from Allah. If you die with a belief other than this belief, you will go to Hell because I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: Allah first created the pen and wrote. The pen said what should I write. He wrote down the destiny of Allah and everything that will happen until eternity. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form.
2309-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: He wrote and decreed the destiny of everything and everyone fifty thousand years before the heavens and the earth were created.” (Muslim, Destiny: 4) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
2310-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the polytheists of Quraysh came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and had a discussion about qadar, and the following verses were revealed: “On the day when their rings will be dragged into the fire, it will be said to them: Taste the burning of the fire of hell, and surely we have created everything according to a certain plan and measure.” (Surah Kamer: 48-49) (Muslim, Destiny: 4; Ibn Majah, Mukadiime: 10) This hadith is authentic. and Abdurrahman b. Zayd narrated a similar hadith to us.
2311-) Ebû Umâme, Sahl b. According to the narration from Hunayf (radiyallahu anh): “Osman b. When Afvan's house was besieged to be killed, he looked down and said: Speak for Allah! Do not you know? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A Muslim can only be killed by three things: adultery after marriage, apostasy after converting to Islam, or killing someone unjustly. I did not commit adultery after I became a Muslim. Since the day I pledged allegiance to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), I have not turned from my religion and become an apostate. I didn't kill the life that Allah made haram, so why are you going to kill me?" (Nesai, Tahrimüddem: 5) A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Mas'ud, Aisha, and Ibn Abbas on this subject. This hadith is hasan. b. Salama reported this hadith from Yahya b. He narrated it from Said as a merfu. Yahya b. Said al-Kattan and many others reported the same hadith from Yahya b. They narrated it from Said as mawkuf, not as a merfu. This hadith was narrated as merfu through Osman (radiyallahu anh) in different ways.
2312-) Amr b. According to the narration from Ahvas (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say to people during his farewell pilgrimage: "What day is this day?" After that, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Your blood (your souls), your property and your chastity are forbidden to each other, just as in this town and your day is forbidden (holy), every criminal commits a crime on his own account. Beware! No child can be held responsible for what his father does, and no father can be held responsible for what his child does. Be careful! Satan has given up hope of being worshiped in your country forever. However, you will obey him in some matters that you do not care about your deeds, and the room will be pleased with it.” (Ibn Mace, Menasik: 42) In this regard, Abu Bakr, Ibn Abbas, Jabir, Huzeym b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr es Sa'di. This hadith is hasan authentic. Zaide de Şebîb b. He narrated a similar hadith from Gargade. This hadith was only reported by Shabib b. We know from Gargade's narration.
2313-) Sâib b. According to the narration from Yazid's father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If one of you takes his brother's walking stick, he should not play it with him either as a joke or seriously, but if he takes it, he should give it to him immediately." (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 35) Ibn Omar, Süleyman b. Hadith was also narrated from Sur'ad, Ja'de and Abu Huraira. The hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only through the narration of Ibn Abi Zib. Sâib b. Yazid was brought up in the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and heard hadiths from him. Saib was seven years old when the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) died. His father, Yazid b. Saib was one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and narrated many hadiths himself. Sâib b. Yazid is Ibn Uht Nemr.
2314-) Sâib b. According to the narration from Yazid, he said: He made a pilgrimage with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) on his farewell pilgrimage. I was seven years old. (Bukhari, Hajj: 27) Ali b. al Medînî, Yahya b. Quoting Said al Kattan, he says: The narrator of this hadith is Muhammad b. Joseph is a solid person. Sâib b. Yazid is his grandfather. Muhammed b. Yusuf says: My maternal grandfather, Sâib b. According to what Yazid told me. (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 35)
2315-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever points a weapon at his Muslim brother, the Angels curse him." (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 35) A hadith was also reported from Abu Bakr, Aisha and Jabir on this subject. In this form, the hadith is Hasen sahih garib as the narration of Khalid al-Hazza.
2316-) Eyyub, Muhammed b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abu Huraira through Sirin, without any excuse, and added the following: "Even if a parent has a sibling..." Kutayba, Hammad b. He narrated it to us in this form from Ayyub through Zayd.
2317-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade giving and taking the sword out of its sheath.” (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 66) A hadith was also reported from Abu Bakr on this subject. Hammad b. As a Salama narration, this hadith is hasan garib. Lehia narrated this hadith from Abu'z Zubayr, Jabir and Bunna al-Juheni. Hammad b. Salama hadith is more authentic in my opinion.
2318-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever performs the morning prayer has entered into the protection and protection of Allah. Allah does not want anything from you in return for this protection.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) A hadith was also reported from Jundup and Ibn Omar on this subject. In this form, the hadith is hasan garib.
2319-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar gave a sermon to us in Jabiya, a region of Damascus, and said: To tell you some of the things that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told us. I am among you. He told us: “I recommend you the life of my Companions, then those who followed them, and then those who followed them. In the next generations, lies will spread. So much so that people will take an oath even though they are not asked to take an oath, and people will give false testimony even though they are not asked to testify. Be careful not to let a man be alone with a woman; The third is the devil. Do not leave the Islamic community, beware of separation, because the devil is with those who do not join the community and are left alone. It is far from two people from the congregation. Whoever wants to have a mansion in the most beautiful places of Heaven; Do not leave the Islamic community. Whoever is doing good that makes him happy and his bad deeds sadden him, he is a believer.” (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 8) This hadith is hasan sahih in this way. Mubarak reported this hadith from Muhammad b. He narrates from Suka. This hadith was also narrated from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in different ways through Umar.
2320-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The help of Allah is with the congregation." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is hasan garib, and we know it from Ibn Abbas only because he narrated it in this way.
2321-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Allah will not bring my ummah - or the ummah of Muhammad - together on the basis of error. God's help is with the congregation. Whoever leaves the congregation will go to Hell.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form. Süleyman el Madani, in my opinion, Süleyman b. He is Sufyan. Abu Dâvûd et Tayâlisi and Abu Amir al Ukdi and many scholars narrated hadith from him. According to scholars: "The community is knowledgeable and knowledgeable in hadith." Carûd b. I heard Muazir say: Ali b. I heard Hasan say: Abdullah b. What is the congregation for Mubarak? I asked. He said: Abu Bakr and Umar. Thereupon, Abdullah b. Mubarak said: They were the members of the society that can be called the Islamic community that passed away, but let me tell you a person who can be a member of the Islamic community today: He is Abu Hamza es Sukkari. Ebû Hamza Muhammed b. He is a Maymun and a righteous person. Abdullah b. Mubarak wanted to say "in our lives and in our time".
2322-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr es Siddiq (radiyallahu anh), he said: “O people; You are only responsible for yourself, if you are on the right path, those who go astray cannot do you any harm.” You are reading the 105th verse of Maida, whereas I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "If people see their cruelty and oppression and do not cause him to be oppressed, it is very soon that Allah will inflict a punishment on all of them." (Abu Dawud, Fitan: 1) b. Beşşar, Yazid b. Ismail b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abi Khalid to us. Aisha, Umm Saleme, Numan b. Bashir, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Omar and Huzeyfe. The hadith is hasan authentic. Similarly, many people have narrated this hadith from Ismail like Yazid's hadith, and some of them have been narrated to us, some of them as mawkuf.
2323-) Huzeyfe b. According to a narration from al-Yeman (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “My dear, I swear by Allah, in whose hand is the power: You will certainly enjoin good deeds and forbid people from evil. If you do not do this, Allah will send you a punishment and you pray to him and your prayer will not be accepted.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan.
2324-) Ali b. Hucr, İsmail b. Through Jafar, Amr b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abu Amr with this deed.
2325-) Huzeyfe b. According to a narration from Yeman (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my soul: Before the Day of Judgment comes, you will kill your own head of state and draw swords against each other, and bad people will inherit your world. they will be.” (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 11; Muslim, Fitan: 4) This hadith is hasan. Only Umar b. We know from the narration of Abu Amr.
2326-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha); When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) talked about an army that was sunk into the ground, Umm Salama said: "Perhaps there are some among that army who joined by force," she said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) will be resurrected in the place of Judgment according to their intentions." (Muslim, Fitan: 2; Ibn Mâce, Fitan: 30) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. The hadith is also Nafi' b. It was also narrated from Jubayr and Aisha.
2327-) Tarik b. According to the narration from Shihab (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The first person to take the eid sermons before the prayer is Marwan. A man got up and said to Marwan: You acted against the Sunnah. He said, "O So-and-so, what has been done here has now been abandoned." Said said: This man has done his part. I heard the Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) say: "Whoever sees something that is bad, should try to fix it, if he is unable to do so, try to fix it with his tongue, and if he is unable to do so, let him know with his heart that it is bad. Situation is the weakest form of faith.” (Muslim, Faith: 20) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2328-) Numân b. According to the narration from Bashir (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The situation of those who are careful to live by Islam by following the limits drawn by Allah, and those who pretend to be Muslims by hypocrisy and flattery, don't want to build the upper and lower floors of a ship in the sea. It is similar to the situation of people who share by pulling. To some of them the lower part of the ship falls, to others the upper part. They splashed water on the ones above as they went up and down to get water. Thereupon, those above say: “We will not allow you to go up and torment us.” And they say, "We'll dig a hole in the bottom of the ship and get our water from there." If the upper and lower ones do not let go of their work, they will all drown and die; if they prevent them, they will all be saved.” (Bukhari, Shariah: 6) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2329-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The best jihad is to tell the truth to the ruler of the state who is cruel and does injustice.” (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 5) A hadith was also reported from Abu Umama on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
2330-) Habbab b. According to what was narrated from Eret (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed one day and extended that prayer. Thereupon, they said, "O Messenger of Allah, you have offered a long prayer that you have not performed before." Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Yes, it is; It was a prayer of fear and hope. In this prayer, I asked God for three things, and he gave two of them to me; didn't give one. I asked Allah not to destroy my ummah with famine and he gave it to me. I wanted the enemy forces not to be a haunt for my ummah, and he gave this to me. Thirdly, I wanted my ummah not to be turned against each other, and he did not give it to me.” (Muslim, Fitan: 5) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith was also narrated from Sa'd and Ibn Umar on the subject.
2331-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Allah folded the earth for me, bent it and bent it, so I saw the east and the west of the earth. up to reach. I was given two treasures, one yellow and one red. I asked my Lord not to destroy my ummah with a general famine and not to make external enemies that are not their own but to destroy their roots. I give you the good news that I will not let an enemy power over them, which will not destroy them with a general famine and will wipe out their roots, even if they come together against your ummah from various parts of the world -or from among various regions. But in the end, they, your ummah, will break each other and enslave each other. (Muslim, Fitan: 5) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2332-) According to the narration from Umm Malik al-Behziyye (radiyallahu anha), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) talked about a turmoil and said that it was near. Thereupon, O Messenger of Allah! Who is the best of people in that time of turmoil? Said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The person who is at the top of the mountains with his sheep and worships Allah by paying their dues to his cattle, and the person who takes the bridle of his horse in his hands, frightens his enemy, and the enemy frightens him." (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 13; Abu Dâvûd, Fitan: 4) A hadith has also been reported from Umm Mübeşşîr, Abu Said and Ibn Abbas on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib as it is. This hadith was narrated by Leys b. Abi Selim narrated from Taus, from Umm Malik al-Behziyye.
2333-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There will be a fitna that will surround the entire Arab world. Those who die in this turmoil are Hell. In this turmoil, the tongue will be sharper than the sword.” (Abu Dawud, Fitan: 3) This hadith is garib. Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail, he was saying: “Ziyâd b. We do not know that Siminkûş narrated other hadiths than this one.” Hammad b. Salama quoted this hadith from Lays as Hammad b. Zayd, on the other hand, narrates from Lays as mawkuf.
2334-) Huzeyfe b. According to a narration from Yeman (radiy-Allâhu anh), he narrated as follows: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) talked to us about two issues, I saw one and I am waiting for the other; He mentioned about the trust: Trust; He informed that the Qur'an descended to the depths of people's hearts at first, and that people learned the subject of trust from the Qur'an and the Sunnah, and mentioned that the trust will be lifted, and said: A person will fall asleep, the feeling of trust will be destroyed in his heart, and a trace will remain like a simple point. Then he will fall asleep again, this time the rest of the sense of trust will be destroyed, leaving a light scar like a callus on the hand of a hard worker. You see it swollen, as if the trace of a piece of fire that you rolled on your foot and caused the skin to swell, but there was nothing but rotten water in it. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took a pebble and rolled it over his feet and said: Then there will come a day when people will do business with each other and almost no one will fulfill their trust. In fact, it will be said that there is an honest person in such and such sons… It will be said that people who do not have as much faith as a mustard seed in their heart will be called neither a good person, nor a kind, nor a smart person. He continued as follows: I lived in such times: In those days, I didn't care who I was shopping with. If he was a Muslim, it would encourage that person to be religiously honest. If he was a Jew and a Christian, the state power and authority at his head would have prevented him from doing evil. But today, I can shop with a few of you. (Bukhari, Rikak: 35; Ibn Majah: Fitan: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2335-) According to the narration from Abu Vakîd al-Leysi (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went to Khaybar, he stopped by a tree called “Zat-u envat”, a tree where the polytheists hung their weapons on the road. People, O Messenger of Allah! They said: They said, appoint us a "Zat-u Envat" just as they have the Envat. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Subhanallah. This word resembled the word Moses said to Moses: “… O Moses, make us a god like the gods that people worship…” (Araf: 138). I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my soul: You will certainly follow the way of the Jews and Christians before you.” (Musnad: 20892) This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Vakîd Leysi was Harîs b. It is Avf. Hadith on this subject was also narrated from Abu Said and Abu Huraira.
2336-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my life: Before the predatory animals talk to the people, the tip of the whip and the shoelace do not talk to the person. And the Hour will not come until one's thigh informs what his family has done after him." (Musnad: 11365) In this regard; A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan garib, and this hadith was only reported by Qasim b. We know from the narration of Fadl. b. Fadl; He is a reliable and solid person next to hadith scholars. Yahya b. Said el Kattan and Abdurrahman b. Mahdi recorded that he was a reliable person.
2337-) During the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), the moon was divided into two. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: (Muslim, Sıfat-ül Münafikin: 8) In this regard, Ibn Mas'ud, Enes and Jubayr b. Hadith was also narrated from Mut'im. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2338-) Huzeyfe b. According to the narration from Usayd (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While we were discussing the Doomsday between us, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) looked at us from the upper floor and said: “The Hour will not come before ten signs are seen;
2339-) Mahmud b. Gaylân narrated a similar hadith from Sufyan and Furat through Vekî' and added "Smoke".
2340-) Hennad narrated this hadith from Furat al-Kazzaz through Abu'l Ahvas, similar to the narration of Vekî from Sufyan.
2341-) Mahmud b. Gaylan, through Abu Dawud et Tayalisi, heard from Shu'ba and Mas'udi, who were both from Furat al-Kazzaz. They narrated it like Abdurrahman's narration from Sufyan and Furat and additionally said "Dajjal and Smoke".
2342-) Ebû Musa Muhammed b. Musenna; Ebûn Numân al-Hakim b. Narrated by Abdullah al Iclî from Shu'ba, Furat, and Abu Davud from Shu'ba, they added the following: "The tenth is either a wind that will pour them into the sea or the descent of Jesus, the son of Mary. ” In this regard, Ali, Abu Huraira, Umm Salama and Safiye b. Hadith was also narrated from Huyey. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2343-) According to the narration from Safiyya (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: They will continue to fight against the Ka'ba... In fact, when an army comes to the desert or the desert of this town that will set out to fight, those in the front, those in the back and those in the middle will all sink into the ground, and none of them will be saved. Thereupon, O Messenger of Allah! What about those who join that army unwillingly? Said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "They will be resurrected according to their intentions." (Muslim, Fitan: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2344-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “This ummah will sink into the ground, disguise and explosions will occur in the near future.” says: O Messenger of Allah! Even though there are righteous people among us, will we perish again? Said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Yes, when ugly situations arise." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith of Aisha is strange. It is known only in this form. Abdullah b. In the direction of Ömer's memory; Yahya b. Said said.
2345-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh), he said: “I entered the mosque when the sun was setting. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was sitting, O Abu Dharr said: Do you know where that sun goes? I said: Allah and His Messenger know best. Thereupon, they said: He goes to get permission to prostrate, and he is allowed, and as if one day it will be said, rise from where you came from, and the sun will rise from where it sets. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) recited the 38th verse of the chapter of Yasin: "… it flows in an orbit of its own..." This way of reading Abdullah b. This is Mas'ud's way of reading. (Muslim, Fiten: 13; Ibn Mâce, Fiten: 32) Safwan b. Assal, Huzeyfe b. Hadith was also narrated from Esid, Anas and Abu Musa. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2346-) According to a narration from Zaynab bint Jahsh (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) woke up one day with a flushed face and saying “la ilaha illallah” three times and said: Woe to him… Today, he said, so many holes were made in the Great Wall of Yec'üc and Mec'üc and he tied the thumb and the index finger in a circle. Zaynab said: O Messenger of Allah! Will we perish even though there are righteous people among us? Said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Yes, if ugly situations increase." (Muslim, Fitan: 1; Ibn Mâce, Fitan: 13) This hadith is hasan authentic. Sufyan said that this hadith is ceyyid = sound. Ali b. al-Madinî and many hadith memorizers such as Sûfyan b. They narrated a similar hadith from Uyeyna. says: Sûfyan b. Uyeyne says: In the narration from Zuhri, I memorized four women in the deed of this hadith; Zaynab bint ebî Salama and Habibe ki are the people whom the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) fed and raised. Umm Habibe and Zaynab bint Jahsh were among the wives of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Similarly, Ma'mer and others narrated this hadith from Zuhri and did not say "from Habiba". Some of Uyeyna's friends did not mention "Ummu Habiba" by narrating this hadith from Ibn Uyayna.
2347-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Near the Day of Judgment, there will be some young people with broken dreams who will read the Qur'an, but the Qur'an they read will not go below their collarbones. They will say the words of Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), the best of people, but they will leave the religion of Islam like an arrow leaves a bow.” (Dârimî, Fiten: 22) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ali, Abu Said and Abu Dharr. The hadith is hasan authentic. In the hadiths other than the hadith, the characteristics of the people who read the Qur'an and whose reciting the Qur'an would not go beyond their collarbones are mentioned, which are the people of Harura and other Kharijites.
2348-) Üseyd b. According to the narration from Hudayr (radiyallahu anh): A man from the Ansar said, O Messenger of Allah. He said, "You gave someone a job in state affairs, you didn't give it to me." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "You will see preferential (orpedic) jobs after me; Be patient until you meet me by the pool.” (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 21; Bukhari, Fitan: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2349-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "After me, you will see torpedo jobs and things that you will find strange, Companions: What do you order us to do? they said. They said: Give them their rights and ask Allah for what is yours. (Bukhari, Fitan: 2; Ibn Mâce, Fitan: 21) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2350-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: One day, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led the afternoon prayer at the first time and then got up and started talking. We did not inform about what will happen until the Day of Judgment, and he left nothing. Those who memorized the things he gave this news, memorized and forgot. Among the things they said were: The world is green, attractive and sweet, God has sent you to the world as the caliph to carry out his system, and He sees what you will do. Be wary of women against the world, these two things can separate you from the path of Allah. Among the things they said also included: Beware! The thing that prevents a person who knows the truth from speaking the truth should not be the fear of people. Said wept and said: By Allah, we were afraid to tell the truth even though we saw some things. Among them were the following. Be careful! For every oppressor and unjust person, a banner will be erected on the Day of Judgment according to the rate of injustice. There can be no greater cruelty and injustice than the tyranny and injustice of the head of state. His banner will be stuck behind him. Among the things we memorized that day were: Beware! Adamoglu was created in different layers. Some of them are born as believers, live as believers and die as believers. Some of them are born as infidels, live as unbelievers and die as unbelievers. Some are born believers, live as believers and die as unbelievers. some of them are born unbelievers, the unbelievers live and die as believers. Beware, some people get angry late and turn away from anger quickly, while others get angry quickly and quickly return from anger. All of them are a lesson to one another. Be careful! Some of them quickly become wrathful, and their wrath is delayed. Be careful! The best among them is the one who is late to anger and quickly overcomes his anger. Beware, the most evil among them is the one who gets angry quickly and overcomes his anger late. Be careful! There are some among the people that it is good to give or to ask. Again, there are some of these people who want to pay well is bad. Again, some of them are good to pay and bad to ask for. All of these are a lesson. Be careful! Among them, there are those who want to give and those who are bad. Open your eyes, it is good that they want the best and give them. The worst of them is that it is bad both to ask and to give. be awake! Wrath is like a piece of ember in a person's heart. Do you not see the person in this state, his eyes are red, his neck veins swell. Whoever is faced with such a situation should lie on his back. Abu Said said: We were looking at the sun that was about to set, to see if it had set; Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Be careful! The remaining life of the world compared to the life span is as much as the remaining time compared to today's time, that is, the sun is about to set. So the apocalypse is very close.” (Ibn Maje, Fiten: 18) Huzeyfe, Abu Meryem, Abu Zeyd b. Ahtab and Muğîre b. A hadith was also reported from Shu'ba. All of them talked about the events that will occur until the end of the world. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2351-) Muawiya b. According to a narration from Qurra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When the people of Damascus are corrupted, it is not good for you to be there. A group of my Ummah will be victorious with the help of Allah, and those who oppose them will not be able to harm them in the least until the Day of Judgment. (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 1) b. Ismail and Ali b. al-Madinî says: "These are people who deal with hadith." In this regard, Abdullah b. Havle, Ibn Omar, Zayd b. Sabit and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2352-) Ahmed b. Menî', Yazîd b. Through Harun Behz b. Quoting Hakim from his father and grandfather, he said: “O Messenger of Allah! What would you recommend me in such a situation? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) pointed to the side of Damascus, saying here." This hadith is hasan authentic.
2353-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “After me, those who resemble unbelievers and do not hit each other's necks.” (Muslim, Iman: 29) In this regard, Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Cerir, Ibn Omar, Kurz b. Hadith was also narrated from Alkame, Vail and Sunabihi. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2354-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from ebî Vakkâs (radiy-Allâhu anh); Osman b. In the confusion that resulted in Affan's murder, he said: I testify that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "There will be such a mess that a sitting person will be better than a standing person. The one standing will be better off than the one walking. Those who walk will be in a better position than those who run.” Said said: O Messenger of Allah! How about you break into my house and reach out to kill me? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Be like Abel, son of Adam." (Musnad: 1369) In this regard, Abu Huraira, Habbab b. Hadiths were also narrated from Eret, Abu Bakr, Ibn Mas'ud, Abu Vakid, Abu Musa and Haresha. This hadith is hasan. Some say this hadith from Lays b. They added one person to the hadith by narrating it from Sa'd. This hadith was also narrated by Sa'd in different ways.
2355-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Run for good deeds before the confusions, which are like fragments of dark nights, come. When those days come, a person will wake up as a believer and be a disbeliever in the evening, and some will go to the morning as a believer and wake up as a disbeliever. On that day, people will sell their religion for worldly money.” (Muslim, Iman: 29; Abu Dawud, Fitan: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2356-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) woke up one night and said: "Subhanallah! Tonight, many turmoils and many treasures have descended, but who will wake up those who are sleeping in their rooms and do not know about them? There are those who have many garments in the world that they will be naked in the Hereafter.” (Bukhari, Science: 27) The hadith is hasan authentic.
2357-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "There will be confusion like parts of a dark night near the end of the day. In those turmoils, a person will wake up as a believer and end up as a disbeliever in the evening, and some will go out as a believer in the evening and come out as a disbeliever in the morning. Some people will sell their religion for worldly money.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) In this regard, Abu Hurayra, Jundup, Numan b. A hadith was also narrated from Bashir and Abu Musa. This hadith is strange in its form.
2358-) It was narrated from Hasan al-Basri (radiy-Allâhu anh): “A person wakes up as a believer and evening as an unbeliever, and ends up as a believer and wakes up as an unbeliever.” He used to say about him: “A person considers his brother's life, property and chastity haram, and he becomes permissible in the morning and evening. Again, he considers his brother's life, property and chastity to be haram and goes out in the evening and morning as permissible.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
2359-) Vâil b. According to the narration from Hujr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard someone ask the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “What would you say if there were statesmen who did not give our rights but demanded theirs from us?” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Listen to them and obey them as long as they pray and become Muslims, everyone is responsible for their own work." (Muslim, Imara: 16) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2360-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There will come days before you when knowledge will disappear and everything will multiply.” The Companions said: “O Messenger of Allah! What is everything?” They said: "They are killing events." (Ibn Mâce, Fiten: 26; Dârimî, Mukaddime: 26) In this regard, Ebû Hüreyre, Halid b. Walid, Ma'kil b. Hadith was also narrated from Yasar. This hadith is authentic.
2361-) Ma'kil b. According to what was reported from Yasâr (radiy-Allâhu anh) as a merfu, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Herj = It is difficult to serve me in times of confusion, anarchy and terror, like emigration.” (Muslim, Fitan: 26) This hadith is sahih garib and Hammad b. We know it from the narration of Zayd from Mualla.
2362-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When the sword is put forward to settle matters among my Ummah, it will not be lifted again until the Day of Judgment.” (Muslim, Fitan: 4) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2363-) Uhban b. It was narrated from Udeyse (radiyallahu anha), the daughter of Zayfi al-Gifari. Ali b. Abi Talib came to my father and asked him to go out with him, and my father said to him: My friend and your uncle's son, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), advised me to get a wooden sword when people were at odds. I've got this too. If you want, I'll take that sword and go out with you. Udeyse: Upon this statement, he said, “He left my father”. (Ibn Maje, Fiten: 31) In this regard, Muhammad b. A hadith was also narrated from Maslama. This hadith is hasan garib. Only Abdullah b. We know from the narration of Ubayd.
2364-) According to what is reported from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said the following about fitna (confusion and anarchy): “When there was confusion among Muslims; break your springs and cut your beams. Shut yourself up in your homes and be like Adam's son Abel.” (Abu Dawud, Fitan: 25; Muslim, Science: 5) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. Abdurrahman b. Servan is Abu Kays el Evdi.
2365-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: I will narrate to you a hadith that I heard from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) that no one after me can narrate this hadith after hearing it from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "These are the portents of Doomsday. The disappearance of knowledge, the pervasiveness of ignorance, the prevalence of adultery, the heavy drinking of alcohol, the increase in the female population and the decrease in the number of men, and the fact that there will be one man for every fifty women. (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 25; Muslim, Science: 5) A hadith was also reported from Abu Musa and Abu Huraira on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2366-) Zubayr b. According to the narration from Adi (radiyallahu anh), he said: Enes b. We entered Malik's side and were close to him because of what we had suffered from Hajjaj. Thereupon, he said: "There is no year that will pass until you meet your Lord, so that the years that come after him are not worse than them, I heard this from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)." (Bukhari Fitan: 6) This hadith is hasan. b. Müsenna, Halid b. He narrated a similar hadith from Humayd and Anas through Harîs, without compromising. This hadith is stronger than the first narration.
2367-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The Hour will not come until there is no one left on earth who says, “Allah is Allah.” (Muslim, Faith: 6) This hadith is hasan.
2368-) Muhammed b. Müsenna, Halid b. He narrated a similar hadith from Humeyd and Anas through Haris, without compromising. This hadith is stronger than the first narration.
2369-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He will reveal the gold and silver in the earth in huge columns. The thief came He will say that my hand was cut off because of this. The killer will come and say that I killed a man because of this. Those who cut off their ties with their relatives will come and say that's why I cut off my relations with my relatives, then they will all be called and they will pass by without taking anything from these gold and silver mines that the earth has uncovered.” (Muslim, Fitan, 8; Ibn Majah, Fitan: 25) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. We only know this way.
2370-) Huzeyfe b. According to a narration from Yeman (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The Hour will not come until the most vile sons in the world become the happiest people." (Musnad: 22214) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was only reported by Amr b. We know it from the narration of Abu Amr.
2371-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abu Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If my Ummah commits fifteen evils, troubles will descend on them: O Messenger of Allah, what are they? It was said. They said: 1- When loot, property, credit and capital are transferred between certain people, 2- When trust is considered as booty and no respect for trust remains, 3- When zakat is considered drudgery and drudgery, 4- Men obey their wives, 5- When they disrespect their mothers. 6- When a person is nice to his friend 7- When he causes trouble to his father, 8- When voices that Allah and His Messenger do not want to rise in mosques, 9- When despicable people are the head of the society, 10- When someone is honored because of fear of his evil, 11- When all kinds of drinks are consumed abundantly, 12- When luxurious and wasteful silk clothes are worn, 13- When the singing artists increase and they are called for every job, 14- When all kinds of musical instruments are used and obtained, 15- Later generations of this ummah When he cursed his forefathers, then expect disasters such as a crimson wind or a mass sinking, or a change in shape and disguise.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) The hadith is garib and only Ali b. We know from this narration of Abi Talib. hadith of Yahya b. From Said al-Ansari; Ferec b. We do not know anyone who narrates it other than Fadale. Ferec b. Some hadith scholars talked about Fedale back and forth and said that he was weak in terms of memory. Waki' and many hadith imams narrated hadiths from him.
2372-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When the booty and state property circulate among certain people, when the trust is counted as booty and the trust is no longer respected, don't give zakat. When his job is considered as drudgery and ceremonies, when sciences and knowledge other than religion are learned, when a person obeys his wife and disrespects his mother, when he is close to his friend and distances himself from his father, when voices against Allah and His Messenger are raised in mosques, when people who leave the way of Islam are the head of the tribe. time, when vile people take over the head of the community as administrators. This is the case when treats and respect are shown to someone because of fear of his evil, when women called singers and artists appear and become famous, when all kinds of musical instruments are bought and sold, when all kinds of alcohol are used, when the later generations of this ummah curse their previous ancestors. Watch the red wind, watch the earthquakes, wait for the collective sinkings, wait for the sword changing events, watch the stoning events, wait for different omens like the grains of the necklace that broke off one by one.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) A hadith was also narrated from Ali on this subject. The hadith is garib and we know it only in this way.
2373-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There will be incidents of sinking, disguise and stoning in this ummah.” Thereupon, a Muslim man said: O Messenger of Allah! When will this happen? They said: "When singers, artists, women and belly dancers increase, musical instruments increase and all kinds of drinks are drunk a lot." (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is from A'mesh, Abdurrahman b. It was narrated from Sabit as mursal. This hadith is garib.
2374-) Müstevrid b. According to the narration from Shaddad al-Fihri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I was sent in the breath of the Hour. He showed it by saying that it was like this and that, and brought his index finger and middle finger closer to each other.” (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 25) This hadith is Müstevrid b. As the Shaddad narration, it is strange and we know it only in this way.
2375-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I was sent side by side with the Day of Judgment. Abu Dawud showed his index finger and middle finger. It is as if the excess of one over the other counts as something…” (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 25) This hadith is hasan sound.
2376-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The Hour will not come until a war is waged against a society whose shoes are made of hair, and the Hour will not come until you fight a nation whose faces are like a shield covered with leather.” (Ibn Mace, Fiten: 36; Bukhari, Jihad: 94) In this regard, Abu Bakr es Siddik, Burayde, Abu Said, Amr b. Hadith was also narrated from Taglib and Muawiya. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2377-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When the kisra disappears, no other kisra will come. I swear to Allah, in whose hand is my soul; all their wealth will be spent in the way of Allah.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 92; Muslim, Fitan: 11)
2378-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Before the Doomsday comes, a fire will arise near Hadramaut or near Hadramaut and gather people around it. Companions, O Messenger of Allah! They asked us what would you recommend then. They ordered you to go to Damascus.” (Muslim, Fitan: 14) Huzeyfe b. Hadith was also narrated from Esid, Anas, Abu Huraira and Abu Dharr. The hadith is hasan garib authentic as the narration of Ibn Umar.
2379-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The Hour will not come until there are about thirty liars and Dajjal, each of whom claims to be a Prophet.” (Abu Dâvûd, Fitan: 1) In this regard, Câbir b. The hadith was also narrated from Samura, Ibn Umar. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2380-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The Hour will not come until some groups from my Ummah join the polytheists and worship idols. At the same time, thirty liars will emerge from my Ummah and each will claim to be a Prophet. However, I am the last of the Prophets and there will be no Prophet after me.” (Abu Dawud, Fitan: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2381-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A liar and wicked person will emerge from the tribe of Sakif.” (Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 58) He is a liar named “Muhtar” who came out of that tribe. The hunhar person said, "Hajjaj b. It is Yusuf.” Davud, Süleyman b. Selmin-il Belhi, Nadr b. Through Şümeyl, Hisham b. Narrated by Hassan, he said: "They counted the people who had been arrested and killed by Hajjaj, they found one hundred and twenty thousand people." A hadith has also been narrated from Asma bint Abi Bakr on this subject.
2382-) Abdurrahman b. Waqid narrated a similar hadith from Sharik in the same deed. The hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only through the narration of Shurayk. Şerîk=Abdullah b. It is usm. Israel is Abdullah b. It means name.
2383-) Imran b. According to a narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “The century in which the best people were present is the century I was in; then those who came after them and then those who came after them. After these, there will come a society that gets fat and fat, loves to become fat, and testifies without being asked to testify.” (Muslim, Fedail-us Companions: 52) Muhammed b. Fudayl thus derived this hadith from A'mesh, Ali b. Müdrik, Hilal b. Narrated by Yesaf. Many of the hadith memorizers derived this hadith from A'mesh, Hilal b. He narrates from Yesaf and in his deed Ali b. They did not mention Mudrik.
2384-) Husayn b. Hureys, from A'meş through Vekî' to Hilal b. Yesaf, Imran b. He narrated a similar hadith from Husayn to us. I think this narration is from Muhammad b. It is more robust than the narration of Fudayl. This hadith is also used in other ways by Imran b. It was narrated from Husayn.
2385-) Imran b. According to a narration from Husayn (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The best of my ummah are the Muslims who lived in the century I was sent to. Then they are the inhabitants of the centuries that followed them. I do not remember whether Imran mentioned the third century or not. Then, some people will appear, and they will testify without being asked to testify, and thus they will be treacherous, and obesity will become common among them because they eat too much that will not be trusted.” (Muslim, Fedail-us Sahaba: 52) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2386-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Twelve rulers will come after me." Jabir says: Then he said something else, but I couldn't understand it and I asked the person next to me. He said: "They are all from Quraysh." (Abu Dawud, Mahdi: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2387-) Ebu Küreyb, Ömer b. From the father of Ubayd, Abu Bakr b. From Abu Musa, from Jabir b. It is reported from Samura in a similar way. Again, this hadith is different from Jabir b. It was narrated from Samure. This hadith is attributed to Abu Musa by Jabir b. As a narration from Samura, it is hasan sahih garib. Ibn Mas'ud and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr.
2388-) Ziyâd b. According to the narration from Kuseyb al-Adawi (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was with Abu Bakr next to his pulpit while Ibn Amir was delivering the sermon. Abu Bilal said: Look at our administrator, he is wearing the clothes of sinful people. Thereupon, Abu Bakr said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "Whoever insults the vicegerent of Allah on earth, Allah will humiliate him." (Musnad: 19538) This hadith is hasan garib.
2389-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: “Umar b. It was said to Khattab that you should appoint someone to replace him, and he replied: If I appoint someone to replace him, it is appropriate because Abu Bakr appointed someone after him. This is also possible if I do not appoint someone in my place. Because the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not appoint someone to replace him." (Muslim, Imara: 1) This hadith is somewhat lengthy and is authentic. Hadith was narrated from Ibn Umar in different ways.
2390-) According to the narration from Safina (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "The real caliphate among my Ummah will be thirty years. His chief said to me: Calculate the caliphate periods of Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman and the caliphate period of Ali… We calculated and found it to be thirty years. Said said: Then I said to him that the Umayyads claim that they have the caliphate. He said: The Umayyads called Zerkaoğulları; They are lying, they are the rulers, not the caliphs, and they are doing the worst of the rulership." (Musnad: 20910) The following statement was reported from Umar, Ali: "The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not say anything about the caliphate." The hadith is hasan. Many people refer to this hadith as Said b. They narrated from Cem'han. We know this hadith only through his narration.
2391-) Habib b. According to the narration from Zubayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abdullah b. I heard Abu'l Huzayl say: Some people from the Rabia tribe called Amr b. They were with As. Meanwhile, Bakr b. A person from the tribe of Vâil should give up what he did to the Quraysh. If not, Allah will give this power to another Arab community other than Quraysh. Said. Thereupon, Amr b. As said: What you said did not come out because Ben; I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say, "The Quraysh are always in the position of rulers in the periods of good and evil, that is, in times of ignorance and Islam, until the Day of Judgment." (Musnad: 18140) A hadith has also been narrated from Ibn Mas'ud, Ibn Omar and Jabir on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
2392-) Omar b. According to the narration from Hakim (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard Abu Huraira say: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The day and night will not end until one of the freed slaves, named Cahcah, becomes an administrator, that is, the Hour will not come. ” (Muslim, Fitan: 25) This hadith is hasan garib.
2393-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “My only fear for my ummah is the emergence of perverted and perverted statesmen. Sawban also said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A community from my ummah will continue on the truth, overpowering falsehood, until Allah's command is fulfilled. Those who leave them helpless will not be able to harm them.” (Muslim, Imara: 44) This hadith is authentic. Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail that he was saying: Ali b. I heard al-Madinî say: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “A community from my Ummah will continue to be right.” When Ali was reminded of the hadith, he said: "They are the people who deal with the hadith and live according to it."
2394-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The world will not come to an end until a person from my Ahl al-Bayt whose name resembles my name comes to the head of the Arabs and takes over their administration." (Abu Dawud, Mahdi, 7) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ali, Abu Said, Umm Salama and Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2395-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person from my Ahl al-Bayt whose name is similar to my name will take over."
2396-) Asim says: Abu Salih narrated to us that Abu Hurayra said: "Even if there is only one day left in the world, Allah will extend that day for that person to take over." (Abu Dawud, Mahdi: 7) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2397-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were afraid that something would happen after our Prophet, so we asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and he said: "The Mahdi will appear among my Ummah, five or seven or nine. (doubting narrator: Zayd) will live. Abu Said says: "What is this period?" we asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "It is years," and continued as follows: "Someone will come to that Mahdi and say, O Mahdi, give it to me, and the Mahdi will fill his skirt as much as he can carry with the hem of his robe." (Abu Dawud, Mahdi, 7) This hadith is hasan. It has also been narrated from Abu Said in different ways. The name of Abu's Siddik en Naci was Bekir b. It is Amr. Bekir b. It is also called Kays.
2398-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "My dear, I swear by Allah in whose hand is power that the son of Mary will descend upon you as a just judge. When he comes, he will break the cross, kill the pig, abolish the jizya, and the wealth will increase to such an extent that no one will accept him.” (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 33; Muslim, Fitan: 23) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2399-) Ebû Ubeyde b. According to a narration from Jarrah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Every Prophet who came after Nuh warned his people against the Dajjal, and I strongly warn you against him.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) informed us of his characteristics and continued as follows: "Maybe someone who sees me and hears my words will reach him." The Companions said: “O Messenger of Allah! What will our hearts be like that day?” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Just like today or even better." (Ibn Mâce, Fiten: 33; Müslüm, Fiten: 23) Abdullah b. Büsr, Abdullah b. Haris, Ibn Juzey, Abdullah b. Hadith was narrated from Mugaffel and Abu Huraira. hadith Abu Ubayda b. As a narration of Jarrah, it is hasan garib.
2400-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: After the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up among people and praised Allah as he deserved, he spoke about Dajjal and said: “I strongly warn you against him. every Prophet also warned his people from him. But I will say a word that no Prophet has ever said to his people;
2401-) You know that he is one-eyed, He will claim to be a god in this state, whereas Allah is not one-eyed.” says: 'Umar b. Thabit al-Ansari reported that one of the Companions of the Prophet told him: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) warned them that day from the temptation of the Dajjal, he said: You know that none of you will ever see your Lord before you die. Infidel is written between the two eyes of that Dajjal. Those who do not like his deeds will read this article.” (Muslim, Fitan: 20; Abu Dâvûd, Melahim: 14) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2402-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The Jews will fight you and you will dominate them with all your might. Even the stones will speak and say: "O Muslim, a Jew is hiding behind me, kill him." (Muslim, Fitan: 18; Bukhari, Jihad: 93) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2403-) It was narrated from Abu Bakr es Siddiq (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told us about the Dajjal: "The Dajjal will emerge from the region called Khorasan from the east, and people who look like shields covered with leather will follow him." (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 33) A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira and Aisha on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib. Abdullah b. Shawzep related this hadith from Abu't Tayyah. This hadith is known only as the narration of Abu't Tayyah.
2404-) Muâz b. According to the narration from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A great and bloody event, the conquest of Constantinople and the emergence of the Dajjal will take place within seven months.” (Muslim, Fitan: 9) Sa'b b. Cessâme, Abdullah b. Büsr, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Mas'ud and Abu Said al-Khudri. The hadith is hasan sahih garib and he only knows it as such.
2405-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The doomsday is side by side with the conquest of Constantinople." (Muslim, Fitan: 9) says: This hadith is garib. Because Constantinople is the city of the Greeks and will be conquered when the Dajjal comes out. Constantinople was conquered once during the time of the Companions of the Prophet.
2406-) Nevvâs b. According to the narration from Sem'an al-Kilabi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “One morning, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) talked about the Dajjal, lowering his voice and sometimes raising it; we thought that the Dajjal was by the date palms of Medina. We dispersed from (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)'s side and then we returned to him. He must have understood our situation, what would you say? She asked. O Messenger of Allah! We said: You talked about the Dajjal this morning, you talked about it by lowering and raising your voice, so we thought that he might have come close to the date palms of Medina. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "What I fear for you is other than Dajjal." If Dajjal emerges while I am among you, I will defeat him with evidence for you. If he comes out while I'm away, every Muslim will defend himself with his own evidence. I entrust all Muslims to Allah from his evil. “Dajjal is in the form of a curly-haired young man, his eyes sticking out. Abdulazza b. Similar to Katan. Whoever among you encounters him, let him recite the first verses of the chapter of al-Kahf. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued his speech as follows: The Dajjal will emerge from between Damascus and Iraq, and he will try to disrupt all sides quickly. O servants of Allah, if you see those days, be careful to stay on the religion of Allah and persevere in your religion. We too, O Messenger of Allah! We said; How long will the Dajjal stay on earth? Did they order? “Forty days will remain; one day will be a year long, one day will be a month long, and one day will be a week long, and the other days will be like your present days.” We said, O Messenger of Allah. Will one day's prayer a day, which will last for a year, be enough for us? Say what? They said: "No, you calculate and adjust the prayer times as you do today." O Messenger of Allah! we said; What will be the speed of the Dajjal on earth? “He will come to a society that will be like a cloud blown by the wind, and he will invite them to believe in him, and they will deny him and reject his words. The wealth of these people will go after Dajjal, and when they wake up, they will have nothing left. Then he will come to another society and invite them too. They will also believe in Dajjal. The antichrist will command the sky to rain rain, and he will send the sky rain down. He will plant in the soil, which will command the soil to finish the plants. The sheep and cattle of that society will return on that day more fleshed out than ever before, in a fat condition, with their breasts full of milk. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: "The Dajjal will say that he is in ruins and take out his treasures, and they will leave there and the treasures there will follow Dajjal, just as the bees follow the bee brain. Then the Antichrist will call a young strong man and he will cut him in two with a sword blow. Then he will come to the room that will call him, with a bright face and a smile. At this very moment, Jesus, son of Mary; He will descend to the east of Damascus next to the white minaret, dressed in two beautiful clothes, with his hands on the wings of two angels. When he lowers his head, it will drip from his head and when he raises his head, water droplets will fall from his head, like pearls, as clear as silver water. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: "The wind of his breath will kill every unbeliever it hits. The wind of his breath will reach as far as the eye can see. Jesus; He will kill the Dajjal by calling him and reaching him at the Dûd gate near Jerusalem. Then it will continue in this way as long as Allah wills. Then God; He will reveal to Jesus to take my servants to the mountain of Tur because I have sent down some of my servants that no one has the power to fight them, these are the people of Gog and Magog. They will descend like streams from every hill and scatter over the earth. The first group will go down to the Taberiyye lake and drink the water of that place. The second group will stop by that lake and say that there was water here before. Then they will walk until they reach Mount Beyti Makdis and they will say: We fought the people on earth and killed them all, now let's kill those in the sky, they will shoot their arrows and Allah will turn back their arrows covered in blood. Isa, son of Mary, and those around him will be surrounded. On that day, an ox's head will be worth more to you than a hundred dinars. Then, Jesus, son of Mary, and his friends will pray to Allah, and Allah will create maggots on the necks of those people, and they will die and perish like the death of a single person. Isa and his friends will disperse from where they are, and they will not find even an inch of land where the fat, stinky flesh and blood of the Gog and Magog people who died and disappeared on earth are not. Jesus and his friends will pray and beseech Allah again, and Allah will send birds resembling camel necks on those carcasses, and these birds will clean the earth by throwing their carcasses into a deep pit. Muslims will use the remaining arrows of this society as fuel for seven years.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: "Allah will send a rain to them and all houses made of mud-brick made of hair will be damaged by this rain. With this rain, the earth will come out clean from the smell of carrion and everything. Then it will be said that the earth will bring its fruits and abundance, and all sides will be filled with blessings and fruits to such a degree that a pomegranate can only be eaten by a community, and people will be shaded like umbrellas by pomegranate peels. The milk will be abundant and the crowds will be content with the meat of a newborn camel. A tribe will be content with a newborn cattle. A tribe will also be able to live on a newborn cattle. While they are living in this situation, Allah will send a wind that will take away the souls of all believers. The rest of the people will mate everywhere in public, like donkeys, and it will fall on them in the apocalypse.” (Ibn Majah, Fitan 33; Muslim, Fiten: 20) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Only Abdurrahman b. Yazid b. We know from the narration of Jabir.
2407-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about the Dajjal, and he said, "Beware, your Lord is not one-eyed and not cross-eyed. Beware, Dajjal is one-eyed and his right eye looks like a grape sticking out from the water.” (Bukhari, Fiten, 27; Ibn Mâce, Fiten: 33) Sa'd, Huzeyfe, Abu Huraira, Esma, Jabir b. Abdullah, Ebû Bekre, Aisha, Enes, Ibn Abbas, Feletan b. A hadith was also narrated from Asim. Abdullah b. As the narration of Umar, this hadith is authentic.
2408-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The Dajjal will come to Madina, but they will see that they are protected by angels. (Muslim, Fiten: 21; Bukhari, Fiten: 27) Abu Huraira, Fatima binti Kays, Usama b. Zayd and Samura b. Hadith was also narrated from Jundup and Mihcen. This hadith is authentic.
2409-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "Faith is in the people of Yemen, disbelief is from the east. Solemnity and modesty are the owners of the sheep. Boasting and showing off are for those who own tents and horses. When the antichrist arrives behind Uhud, the angels will turn his face towards Damascus and he will disappear there.” (Muslim, Fitan: 21; Bukhari, Fitan: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2410-) Mücemma' b. I heard from the concubine al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh) that she was saying: “Isa, son of Mary, will kill the Dajjal in a place called Bab-i Lud.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Melahim: 14) In this regard, Imran b. Husayn, Nafi' b. Utbe, Abu Barze, Huzeyfe b. Ebî Useyd, Ebû Hüreyre, Keysân, Osman b. Eb'îl Âs, Câbir, Ebû Umâme, İbn Mes'ûd, Abdullah b. Amr, Samura b. Cündüp, Nevvâs b. Sem'an, Amr b. Avf and Huzeyfe b. Hadith was also narrated from Yaman. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2411-) According to the narration from Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard from Anas, that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Every Prophet; He has warned his ummah from the one-eyed liar. Beware, he is one-eyed; your Lord is not one-eyed. Infidel is written between his two eyes. (Abu Dawud, Melahim: 14; Bukhari, Fitan: 27) This hadith is authentic.
2412-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiyallahu anh), Ibn Said made friends with me when he was going to Mecca as a pilgrim or umrah visitor. When we stopped at a place, I said put your things where that tree is. Then he saw a sheep, milked it and brought it to me and said, O Abu Said, come and drink it. I didn't like drinking milk from your hand because of what people said about him and I said today is a hot day, I don't like to drink milk on hot days. Thereupon, he said: O Abu Said, because of what everyone said about me, I thought of tying a rope to a tree and hanging myself. If you think that my words will be closed to others, know that nothing will be closed to you. Do you not know the hadith of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) best? Didn't the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say that the Dajjal was a disbeliever? I am a Muslim, again, didn't the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say that the Dajjal would not be his offspring? I left my child in Medina, didn't the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say that he could not enter Mecca and Medina? However, I am from Medina and I am going to Mecca with you. While Ibn Said is saying these things, I swear by Allah that lies are being told about him. I said and then he said: O Abu Said, I will give you true and correct news. By Allah, I know that Dajjal for sure, I know his father, and I know where he is on earth right now. Thereupon I said: "Let the work go wrong, may all your days be lost". (Muslim, Fitan: 19) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2413-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) met Ibn Said in one of the streets of Medina and kept him with him for a while. Ibn Said was a Jewish young man and his hair was braided. He was with Abu Bakr and Umar with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked him, "Do you testify that I am the Messenger of Allah?" The room said: "Do you testify that I am the messenger of Allah?" he replied. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "I believe in Allah, his angels, his books, his messengers and the Last Day, and what do you see?" Ibn Said said: "I see an Throne on the water." The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “He sees the Throne of Satan on the sea”. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “What do you see again?” she asked. “I see a truth and liars or truths and liars,” he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person who is in confusion, stay away from him." (Muslim, Fiten: 19; Abu Dâvûd, Melahim: 16) Ömer, Hüseyin b. Hadiths were also narrated from Ali, Ibn Omar, Abu Dharr, Ibn Mas'ud, Jabir and Hafsa. This hadith is hasan.
2414-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The parents of Dajjal will be together for thirty years, but they will not have children, then a one-eyed boy will be born to them. He is a child whose harm is very little and his eyes will sleep and his heart will not sleep. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to introduce us to his parents: His father is tall and his flesh is firm. Its nose is like a bird's beak. His mother is chubby and has long hands. Abu Bakr said: I heard a child born of Jews in Medina, I and Zubayr b. Avvam, we went to his mother and father, let's see what! We saw in them what the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) described. Do you have any other children? we said. They said that we waited for thirty years, we did not have a child, then we had a son, which is a very harmful and useless thing. His eyes sleep, his heart does not sleep. Abu Bakr continued: We went out from them, we saw that child lying on a velvet in the sun, he was muttering something, he immediately opened his head and what did you say to my mother and father? She asked. Did you hear what we said? we said. He also said “Yes”; My eyes sleep, my heart does not sleep. (Musnad: 19522) This hadith is hasan garib and was written by Hammad b. We know from the narration of Salama.
2415-) It was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh). Among the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was Umar b. He stopped by Ibn Sayyad with a few people, including Khattab. Ibn Sayyad; He was a young man and was playing with some children next to Beni Meğale mansion. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) came to him and struck him on the back with his hand and said, "Will you bear witness that I am the messenger of Allah? Ibn Sayyad looked at the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said: You are the prophet of the illiterate. Then would you testify to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) that I am the Messenger of Allah? She asked. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'I believe in Allah and His messengers. Then our Prophet continued: What is coming to you? Ibn Sayyad said: He said to me that lies also come true. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Your job is a mess. Then the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Guess what, there is something I keep secretly inside me. Our Prophet (He passed through the 10th verse of Surah Duhan.) Ibn Sayyad; “That Duhh” tour said. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), get out of there, you will never go beyond your limits as a soothsayer. Omar: O Messenger of Allah! "Let me blow your neck" he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If this is really Dajjal, you cannot deal with him, if he is not, there is no use in killing him." (Ebû Dâvûd, Melâhım: 16; Muslim, Fitan: 24) says: “If he is not”, he means Dajjal. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2416-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There will be no one left of the people living in this region in a hundred years.” (Abu Dâvûd, Melâhım: 18; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 53) Hadiths were also narrated from Ibn Omar, Abu Said and Burayda on this subject. This hadith is hasan.
2417-) Abdurrahman b. It was narrated from Umar (radiyallahu anh). He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) led us the night prayer in the last days of his life, and when we greeted him, he said: "Do you see this night of yours? A hundred years from now, no one will survive what is on this earth today.” Ibn Umar says: While people were narrating these hadiths for a hundred years, they misunderstood the saying of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). However, in this hadith, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted to say that the age of the Companions would come to an end." (Abu Dâvûd, Melahım: 18; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 53) This hadith is authentic.
2418-) Ubey b. According to a narration from Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not curse the wind when you encounter something you dislike, and pray: Our Lord! We ask you for the good of the things that this wind will bring good for, and we seek refuge in you from the evil of the things that this wind will bring from its evil." (Musnad: 20414) Aisha, Abu Huraira, Osman b. Hadith was also narrated from Ab'il As, Anas, Ibn Abbas and Jabir. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2419-) According to the narration from Fatima bint Kays (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) climbed the pulpit and smiled and said: “Tamim-i Dari told me about an event, I was very happy and wanted to tell you about it. Some of his people got on the ship on a sea voyage, and the ship caught in the storm drove them around for a while and finally threw them on one of the islands in the sea. What a furry creature to see! They say who are you? I am Cessase, he replies. Then they say, let us know what you know. He says: I am not in a position to inform you, and I will not ask any news from you. We came a little beyond the town and let's see what! A man in chains! This man said to us, "Let me know about the same Zughar". We said that it is full and the water continues to flow. He said to inform me about the lake of Tiberias. We said it is full of water. Then he said, "Let me know if the Beysan date groves between Jordan and Palestine bear fruit." And we said yes, tell me about the last prophet, has he been sent? said. We said yes. How do people behave towards that prophet? Said. We said they were running as well. Thereupon he leaped up with a leap, almost breaking his chains. Who are you too? We said. He said I am the Dajjal. It will enter everywhere else in Taybe. In Tayba it is Medina. (Muslim, Fitan: 24; Abu Dâvûd, Melahim: 15) This hadith is hasan sahih, as Qatada's narration from Sha'bi. Many people have narrated this hadith from Sha'bi and Fatima binti Qays.
2420-) According to the narration from Huzayfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “It is not appropriate for a believer to humiliate himself.” The Companions asked how he humiliated himself. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "He gets himself into troublesome things he can't handle." (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 21) This hadith is hasan garib.
2421-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Help your brother whether he is an oppressor or an oppressed one. Thereupon we, O Messenger of Allah! We know how to help the oppressed, but why and how will we help the oppressor? They said: If you make him hand over oppression, this is the help you will give him.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Melâhım: 17; Bukhari, Mazâlim: 4) A hadith was also reported from Aisha on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2422-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Those who live in the desert are rude and ignorant, and those who are engaged in hunting are heedless of certain human actions and behaviors. Those who come to the doors of the administrators without a need are also tried with different things.” (Abu Dawud, Sayd: 24) A hadith was also reported from Abu Huraira on this subject. This hadith is hasan sahih garib as the narration of Ibn Abbas. We know only from the narration of Sevri.
2423-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from the father of Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh). I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "You will be helped by Allah, you will be victorious, you will have booty, and the gates of countries will be opened for you. Whoever of you reaches these days, should be conscious of Allah, find his way through Allah's book, always order what is good and right, and forbid all kinds of evil. Whoever deliberately invents false hadiths about me or conveys falsehoods, let him be ready for his place in Hell.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 5; Muslim, Mukaddime: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2424-) According to the narration from Huzayfa (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Omar (radiyallahu anh) said, "Who has memorized something that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about fitna? Huzeyfe said he is me and said: "It is the testing and testing of a person with his family, property, children and neighbors, that ordering the prayer, fasting, alms and good deeds and forbidding evil can be expiation for this fitnah. Ömer said: I am not asking you this, I am asking because of the great strife that will be like the waves of the sea. Huzeyfe said: O Emir of the Believers, there is a closed door between you and that fitna. Omer; Will that door open? Or will it break? She asked. Huzeyfe said he will be broken. Omar said: Then it will not be closed until the Day of Judgment. In the narration of Abu Vail Hammad, he says: I said to Masruk, ask Huzeyfe about this door. He also asked, Huzeyfe said that door is Omar.” (Muslim: Faith: 51) This hadith is authentic.
2425-) Ka'b b. According to the narration from Ujra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to us and we were nine people, five of whom were five and four; Four Arabs were from Persians. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Listen! Did you hear that some administrators will come after me? Whoever comes to them, supports them, accepts their lies as true and helps them in their injustice is not from me. I am not one of them, such people will not be able to approach me by the pool. Whoever does not go near them, does not have relations with them, does not help them in their injustice and does not accept that they are lying, that person is one of me and I am one of them, and this person will approach me by the pool. (Nesai, Allegiance: 36) This hadith is authentic. We know this hadith as the narration of Mis'ar only in this way.
2426-) Harun said: Muhammad b. Abdulwahhab, from Sufyan, from Abu Husayn, from Sha'bî, from Asim al-Adewi, from Ka'b b. He conveyed a similar hadith to me from Ucre.
2427-) Again, Harun says: Muhammad came from Sufyan, Zubayd, Ibrahim (not Nehai) Ka'b b. He told me a similar narration from Mis'ar from Ucre. A hadith was also narrated from Hudhayfa on this subject.
2428-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A time will come upon people when a person who is persistent in fulfilling the requirements of his religion and lives as a Muslim will be like one who holds fire in his palm.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is strange in this form. b. Shakir; He was an old man from Basra and many scholars narrated hadiths from him.
2429-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When my Ummah walks arrogantly and the children of the kings, Iran and Rum children, serve the good people, the bad ones will be a scourge.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. This hadith was narrated by Abu Muawiya, Yahya b. He narrated from Said al-Ansari.
2430-) Muhammad b. İsmail el Vasitî, through Abu Muaviye, Yahya b. Said from Abdullah b. He narrated similarly from Dinar and Ibn Umar. Abu Muaviye, Yahya b. Said from Abdullah b. The origin of the narration from Dinar and Ibn Omar is unknown. Known Musa b. It is the narration of Ubayda. Malik b. Enes reported this hadith from Yahya b. Said as a mursal and in this narration, “Abdullah b. Dinar and Ibn Omar”.
2431-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh), he said: In a hadith I heard from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him), Allah protected me from participating in the Jamal affair. When Kisra died, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked who had taken her place. They said, "His daughter". Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A society that has a woman as their ruler will never be able to achieve salvation." Abu Bakr continued: "Aisha, when I came to Basra, I remembered this word of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and with this hadith, Allah protected me from getting involved in these events." (Nesai, Kudad: 8) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2432-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood at the head of some sitting people and said: Listen carefully, shall I tell you apart from your good and bad ones? Everyone remained silent. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) repeated this word three times. A man yes, O Messenger of Allah! He said, let us know about our good and bad ones. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The best of you is the one whose good is hoped for and whose badness is assured. The bad one of you is the one whose good is not hoped for and who is not sure of his evil.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2433-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Shall I inform you of the good and bad of your rulers? The best are those who love you and you love them, you pray for them and they pray for you. The worst of your statesmen are such people that you do not love them, you harbor enmity towards them, and they do not love you, they are hostile to you. You do not love them to them, they are hostile to you. You curse them and they curse you.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith is only reported by Muhammad b. We know from the narration of Abi Humayd. Muhammad, on the other hand, was considered weak in terms of memory.
2434-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Some administrators will come to you and you will tolerate some of their actions and you will not like others. The person who refuses will save himself, the person who dislikes will find comfort and peace, but he will be contented. those who follow them will be harmed. It was said: O Messenger of Allah! Shouldn't we fight them? Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); They said, "No, as long as they pray." (Abu Dawud, Sunnah: 21) This hadith is hasan sahih.
2435-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is better for you to live on earth when your rulers are good people, your rich people are generous people, and your affairs are conducted in consultation among you than going underground. But when your rulers, your wicked ones, your rich ones, your stingy ones, and your affairs are handed over to women, the underground (grave) is better for you than the top (living).” (Bukhari, Fitan: 18) This hadith is strange and only Salih b. We know with the narration of Murri. Among Salih's narrations, there are strange hadiths that cannot be followed. He is a righteous person.
2436-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “You are at such a time that anyone who abandons one-tenth of what is ordered to him will be destroyed. Then there will come a time when anyone who does one-tenth of what he is commanded will be saved.” (Abu Dâvûd, Sunnah: 21; Bukhari, Fitan: 18) This hadith is strange and only Nuaym b. Hammad's, Sûfyan b. We know it as a narration from Uyeyna. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Dharr and Abu Salih on this subject.
2437-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up on the pulpit and pointed to the east side, this is the place of strife and confusion, the place where the sun rises or the devil deceives those who worship the sun. They meant direction.” (Bukhari, Fitan: 16; Muslim, Fitan: 16) This hadith is hasan sound.
2438-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Black banners will emerge from Khorasan, and no power will be able to defeat them. ” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib.
2439-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: there will be no lies. Those whose dreams are the most correct are those whose words are the most correct. A Muslim's dream is one forty-sixth of prophethood. There are three types of dreams; A good dream is good news from Allah to his servant. The nightmarish dream of the devil causing sadness and the dream that comes from the things that preoccupy one's mind with his daily life, if one of you has a dream that he does not like, let him get up, spit on his left side and not tell people about that dream. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) continued as follows: "I like the chain on the feet in a dream, I do not like the chain on the neck." Chain on the feet; It means perseverance in religion. (Muslim, Dream: 1; Bukhari, Ta'bir: 3) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2440-) Ubade b. According to the narration from Samit (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "A believer's dream is one forty-sixth of the prophethood." (Muslim, Rüya: 1; Bukhari, Ta'bir: 3) Abu Hureyre, Abu Rezîn, Ukaylî, Ebû Said, Abdullah b. Amr, Awf b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik, Ibn Umar and Anas. The hadith of Ubada is authentic.
2441-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: The Prophethood and Prophethood have come to an end. Neither Rasul nor Nabi will come after me. When this news was difficult for the Muslims, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: But there are things that bring joyful glad tidings. Companions: O Messenger of Allah, what are these pleasing things? When he said that, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "It is a Muslim's dream, and a dream is a part of prophethood." (Bukhari, Ta'bir: 4) In this regard, Abu Huraira, Huzeyfe b. Hadith was also narrated from Esid, Ibn Abbas, Umm Kurz and Abu Usayd. This hadith; Mukhtar b. As the narration of Fülfül, it is hasan sahih garib.
2442-) Ata b. Yesâr (radiyallahu anh); He relates that an Egyptian man said to Abu'd Darda, "There are good news for them in the life of this world." I asked the meaning of the verse (Yunus: 64) and he said: Since the day I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), only one person other than you asked me about it. I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and he said: Nobody has asked me about this verse since the day it was revealed to me. (Muvatta, Dream: 1) In this regard, Ubade b. A hadith has also been narrated from Samit. This hadith is hasan.
2443-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The best dreams are those seen at dawn.” (Darimi, Dream: 8)
2444-) Ubade b. According to the narration from Samit (radiyallahu anh), he said: There are glad tidings for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in their worldly life. I asked about the verse (Yunus: 64). He said: “That good news; It is a good dream that a believer sees or sees.” (Bukhari, Ta'bir: 5; Dârimî, Rüya: 1) in his own narration: Yahya b. Abi Kathir says he told us. This hadith is hasan.
2445-) According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever saw me in his dream has indeed seen me, because Satan cannot take my form.” (Bukhari, Ta'bir: 10) On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Abu Hurayra, Abu Qatada, Ibn Abbas, Abu Said, Jabir, Anas, Abu Malik al-Ashcai's father, Abu Bakr and Abu Juhayfe. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2446-) According to the narration from Abu Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A dream is from Allah, and a dream with a nightmare is from Satan. If one of you sees a dream that you do not like, let him spit on his left side three times and seek refuge in Allah from the evil of that dream, then that nightmare will not harm him.” (Bukhari, Ta'bir: 3; Dârimî: Rüya: 5) Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Abu Said, Jabir and Anas. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2447-) According to the narration from Abu Rezîn al-Ukaylî (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A believer's dream is a fortieth part of prophethood. As long as he does not tell anyone, it is as if he is tied to the feet of the bird, and he falls down when told. Abu Rezîn says: I think the Messenger of Allah said: "Tell the dream to a wise or dear friend." (Darimi, Dream: 11)
2448-) According to the narration from Abu Razin (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The dream of a Muslim is part of the forty-six part of the Prophethood, as long as it is tied to the leg of a bird, unless it is told to anyone, it falls when it is told." (Darimi, Dream: 2; Ibn Mâce: Dream: 6) This hadith is hasan authentic. Rezîn el Ukaylî's name; Lakît b. It is Âmir. Hammad b. Salama, Ya'la b. Narrated by Ata: “Vakî' b. from Hudus”. Shu'be, Abu Avane and Huseym, Ya'la b. By narrating from Ata and Vekî, “Vakî' b. They said, "From Udus," and this narration is more accurate.
2449-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “There are three parts to a dream; One is the true and real dreams, the other is the dreams arising from the things that occupy one's daily life, and the third is the nightmares that the devil shows to cause sadness. Whoever sees a dream that does not please him should get up and pray." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said about dreams: I like the chain on my feet, I don't like the chain on my neck; because the chain on the foot is a sign of perseverance in religion. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued his speech as follows: "Whoever sees me in a dream, I am the person he sees because the devil cannot take my form. Again, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to say about the dream: Tell about the dream to a knowledgeable person or someone sincere and giving advice. ” (Dârimî, Rüya: 5; İbn Mâce: Ta'biri dream: 2) In this regard, Anas, Abu Bakr, Umm-l Ala, Ibn Omar, Aisha, Abu Musa, Jabir, Abu Said, Ibn Abbas and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2450-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever misrepresents a lie in his dream or tells a dream as if he saw it without seeing it, on the Day of Judgment he will be held responsible for tying up a grain of barley.” (Dreamy Dream: 5)
2451-) Qutayba (radiy-Allâhu anh) conveyed a similar hadith to us from Abdul A'la, Abu Abdurrahman al-Sulami and Ali through Abu Avane. This hadith is hasan. On this subject, hadiths were narrated from Ibn Abbas, Abu Huraira, Abu Shurayh and Vasile. This narration is stronger than the previous hadith.
2452-) It was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person who falsely claims that he is dreaming will be responsible for tying two grains of barley together on the Day of Judgment, but he will never be able to tie them together." (Bukhari, Ta'bir: 45) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2453-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say, "I dreamed that while I was sleeping, milk was brought to me and I drank more of it." I gave it to Khattab. Companions: How did you interpret this? They said, "Knowledge", they said. (Dârimî, Rüya: 13; Bukhari, Ta'bir: 7) In this regard, Abu Huraira, Abu Bekre, Ibn Abbas, Abdullah b. Selam, Huzeyme, Tufeyl b. Hadiths were also narrated from Sahbera, Samura, Abu Umama and Jabir. The hadith of Ibn Umar is authentic.
2454-) Sahl b. According to what was reported from some of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) through Hunayf (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: In my dream, I saw people being presented to me. They had shirts on. Some of them had their shirts up to their breasts, some of them even lower, while Ömer's shirt was too long and pulled so that its skirts wouldn't touch the ground. Companions: What is the interpretation of this? they said. He said: "This is piety." (Darimi, Dream: 13; Bukhari, Expression: 17)
2455-) Abd b. Humayd (radiyallahu anh), Yakub b. Abraham b. Through Sa'd, from his father Salih b. From Kaysan, Zuhrî, Abu Umâme, Sahl b. They have narrated a similar hadith to us from Hunayf in terms of meaning from Abu Said al-Khudri, which is more authentic.
2456-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh): "One day the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), do you have a dream? she asked. A man said, "I saw it," and he said: "It's like a scale has come down from the sky. You and Abu Bakr were weighed, you were heavier than Abu Bakr, then Abu Bakr and Umar were weighed. Abu Bakr felt heavy. Ömer and Osman were weighed. Omar was heavy, then the scales were lifted. Thereupon, we saw a sign of discontent on the face of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). (Ibn Majah: Dream: 7; Muslim, Dream: 3) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2457-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “To the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam); When Waraka was asked about it, Khadija (radiyallahu anha) said: She had approved of you, but she died before you could reveal yourself. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I was shown Waraq in my dream, wearing a white dress. If it was from Hell, it would be a different dress.” (Musnad: 23231) This hadith is garib. Osman b. Abdurrahman is not considered to be a solid person when compared to hadith scholars.
2458-) Abdullah b. The dream of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) about Abu Bakr and Umar was narrated from Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I saw people gathered at the head of a well. Abu Bakr drew one or two buckets of water. In the end, people and their camels were deceived by the water, and they locked their camels in their corrals.” (Bukhari, Ta'bir: 28; Muslim, Fedail: 2) A hadith was also reported from Abu Huraira on this subject. The hadith is authentic as the narration of Ibn Umar.
2459-) Abdullah b. The dream of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was narrated from Umar (radiyallahu anh). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I saw a black woman with messy hair, she came out of Medina and stood on a plain. This is Cuhfe. I interpreted this as the plague of Medina, and the plague will be transferred to Juhfa.” (Bukhari, Ta'bir: 41; Dârimi: Dream: 13) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
2460-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A believer's dream will never turn out to be a lie. The most true of their dreams is the dream of the most truthful. There are three types of dreams; A beautiful dream is a means of good news and joy by Allah. The second type of dream is the dream that originates from the things that occupy one's mind in daily life. The third is the nightmarish dream, which is caused by the devil. If one of you sees a dream that he does not like, he should not tell anyone about it, he should stand up and pray. Abu Huraira related that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "I like the chains that are tied to the feet, but I do not like the chains that are put on the neck because the chain that is put on the foot means that one will be firm in religion." Abu Huraira said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued: "A believer's dream is one forty-sixth of the prophethood." (Muslim: Dream: 1; Ibn Majah: Dream: 3) Abdulwahhab es-Sakafi narrated this hadith from Ayyub as a merfu Hammad b. Zayd, on the other hand, narrated it from Ayyub as mawkuf.
2461-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I saw two gold bracelets on my two arms in a dream. When I said that wearing a gold bracelet made me sad, it was revealed to me to blow those two bracelets. They flew away when I blew it. I interpreted these two bracelets as two false prophets who would appear after my prophecy. One of them is Musaylime from Yamama and the other is Ansi from Sana'a.” (Ibn Majah, Dream: 10; Muslim, Dream: 4) This hadith is sahih hasan garib.
2462-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abu Hurayra used to narrate a hadith like this: "A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: Tonight I saw a cloud in my dream, honey and oil from it. was flowing. People also took from that honey and oil with their hands; Some took a lot, some took a little. I saw a rope stretched from the sky to the ground.” Messenger of Allah! I saw that you held on to that rope and you rose, then another person held that rope and he rose, and then another person held that rope and he rose, and then another man grabbed that rope, but the rope broke, the rope was tied and he rose too. Thereupon Abu Bakr said: O Messenger of Allah! May my mother and father be sacrificed for you… Let me interpret this dream. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He said, "Let's look at it with an interpretation" and Abu Bakr commented: "The cloud that creates a shadow is Islam, the oil and honey that flows is the softness and taste of the Qur'an. Those who receive more or less are those who have had their share of the Qur'an more or less. The rope stretched from the sky to the ground is Islam, which is the right you are on. You hold him, and Allah will raise you up. After you, another person will hold that right and will rise with it. Someone else will follow him; He will rise with it. Then someone else will hold it, the rope will break because of him, then it will be tied and the room will rise with it. Messenger of Allah! Is this interpretation correct? Or is it wrong? I did. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "You have interpreted some of it correctly and some of it wrong." Thereupon Abu Bakr said: O Messenger of Allah! May my parents be sacrificed for you, I swear that you will tell me where I was wrong. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Do not swear". (Muslim, Dream: 3; Ibn Majah: Dream: 10) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2463-) Samura b. According to the narration from Jundub (radiyallahu anh), he said: "After leading the morning prayer, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) turns his face towards the congregation and does anyone have a dream tonight?" he asked. (Bukhari, Ta'bir: 48) This hadith is hasan. hadith, from Avf, Cerir b. It has been narrated from Hazim, Abu Reca, and Samura in a longer way. Likewise, Muhammad b. Bashar had this hadith from Vehb b. He narrated from Cerîr briefly.
2464-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Khalid al-Juheni (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Beware! Shall I inform you of the best of witnesses? He is the one who gives testimony on his own without being called.” (Muslim Akdiyye: 9)
2465-) Ahmed b. Hasen, Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Malik through Maslama. Amra says: This hadith is hasan. Many hadithists say to this person; Abdurrahman b. They call it Ebi Amre. There is disagreement over Malik in the narration of this hadith. Some narrate from Abu Amre, some from Ibn Abi Amre. This person was Abdurrahman b. Abu Amre al-Ansari, this is the correct one. Because this hadith, apart from the narration of Malik, was written by Abdurrahman b. Abi Amre and Zayd b. It was also narrated from Khalid. From Abu Amre to Zayd b. Another hadith has been reported from Khalid, which is authentic. Abu Amre, Zayd b. He is the freed slave of Khalid al-Juheni. The hadith of "Gulul" was also narrated from him. Many people refer to this person: “Abdurrahman b. Abi Amre" they say.
2466-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Khalid al-Cuheni (radiyallahu anh); “Zayd heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: The best of witnesses is the one who testifies without being asked to testify.” (Muslim Akdıyye: 9) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
2467-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "The man and woman who commit treason, the man and woman who are punished for adultery against a Muslim, the person who harbors a grudge against his Muslim brother, the liar." It is not permissible to testify about a person whose testimony has been tried, who is a servant of a family, and who is doubtful whether he is freed or related to that family.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) He said that the word "Kanî" in the hadith means subject. hadith is strange. Only Yazid b. We know it with the narration of Ziyad ed Dımışki. It has been noted that Yazid was weak in hadith. It is known only from Yazid's narration that this hadith is from Zuhri's narration. Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. We do not know much about the meaning of this hadith, in my opinion, this hadith is not authentic in terms of isad. In this regard, scholars say that it is permissible for a relative to be a witness to a relative. Scholars have differed about the testimony of a father to his child and the child to his father. The majority of scholars do not consider it permissible for a father to be a witness for his child and a child for his father. Some scholars say that if it is just, it is permissible for a father to be a witness to his child. Likewise, his child's testimony to his father is valid. There is no dispute in the testimony of brother to brother. The testimony of each relative to his relative is also valid. Shafi'i says: Even if it is just, it is not permissible for one of the two people who have enmity to be a witness to the other. Abdurrahman b. As narrated by A'rec from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) as a mursal, "It is not permissible to bear witness to a person who holds grudges and is hostile." He also accepted his hadith as evidence. In other words, he wants to say in this hadith: The testimony of those who harbor enmity and hatred towards each other is not permissible.
2468-) Eymen b. According to a narration from Huraym, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said during a sermon: "O people, lying and false witnessing are equated with associating partners with Allah," and he recited verse 30 of the chapter of Hajj, "... Beware of false words.” (Musnad: 16943) This hadith is garib and only Sufyan b. We know from the narration of Ziyâd. The hadith scholars say that this hadith is Sufyan b. There is disagreement in the narration from Ziyâd, and Ayman b. We do not know that Huraym narrated hadiths from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh).
2469-) Huraym b. According to the narration from Fatik al-Asadî (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got up three times after performing the morning prayer and recited the 30th verse of Hajj Surah by saying: “Telling a lie or witnessing a lie is equal to associating partners with Allah”. : “… Avoid lying and witnessing falsehood.” (Ibn Majah: Ahkam: 32; Abu Dâvûd: Akdıyye: 15) This hadith is more robust in my opinion. Huraym b. Fatik had a conversation with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and narrated many hadiths from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and is a well-known person.
2470-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Beware! Shall I inform you of the greatest of the great sins? The Companions said yes, O Messenger of Allah. He said: Associating partners with Allah, disobeying parents, giving false witness or telling lies. Abu Bakr says: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) repeated this last word so much that we wished he had kept quiet." (Ibn Majah: Ahkam: 32; Ibn Majah: Akdıyye: 15) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr.
2471-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) saying: “The best of people are those who lived in my century, then those who followed them, then those who followed them, after saying this three times, and then following them. There will come a people who will love to eat and drink a lot, and obesity will become common among them, and they will testify without being asked.” (Bukhari, Shahadat: 10) This hadith is A'meş'in, Ali b. It is strange as a narration from Müdrik. The men of A'mesh derived this hadith from A'mesh, Hilal b. Yesaf and Imran b. They narrated from Husayn. Ammar Husayn b. Hureys, from A'meş through Vekî' to Hilal b. Yesaf and Imran b. They have transmitted a similar hadith from Husayn to us. This narration is from Muhammad b. It is more robust than the narration of Fudayl. According to some scholars, the meaning of the phrase "they will testify unwillingly" means false witnessing. In other words, it means that a person will falsely testify even though he is not a witness.
2472-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The best of people are those who lived in my century, then those who followed them and then those who followed them. Then the lie will become so widespread that the person will testify even though there is no witness, he will take an oath even though he is not offered an oath.” With this hadith, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The best of witnesses is the one who testifies unintentionally." There is no contradiction between the hadith. If a person is held as a witness on an issue, he should testify and not run away from being a witness. This is how some scholars interpret this hadith. (Bukhari, Shahadat: 10)
2473-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Many people have been deceived by two blessings. Health and leisure.” (Bukhari, Rikak: 1)
2474-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Yahya b. Said by Abdullah b. Said b. Abi Hind and his father, Ibn Abbas, narrated a similar hadith to us. In this regard, Enes b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik. This hadith is hasan authentic. Many people refer to this hadith as Abdulah b. Said b. They narrated it from Abu Hind as merfu, and some narrators also reported Abdullah b. Said b. They narrated it from Abu Hind as mawkuf.
2475-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Who takes these few words from me and acts on them? Or teaches them to someone by doing them? Abu Huraira says: "I am O Messenger of Allah!" said. Thereupon, he took my hand and counted five subjects and said: "Beware of all kinds of haram things so that you can be the most worshiping of people, be pleased with what Allah has reserved for you, so that you can be the richest of people, do good to your neighbors, and you will be a true believer. Love for people what you love for yourself, so that you will be a true believer. Do not multiply the laughter, because too much laughter kills the heart.” (Musnad: 7748) This hadith is strange and only Jafar b. We know from the narration of Solomon. Hasan did not hear anything from Abu Huraira. Likewise, Eyyub, Yunus b. Ubayd and Ali b. Zayd; They say that Hasan did not hear a hadith from Abu Huraira. Abu Ubeyde en Nâci narrated this hadith from Hasan as his own word, but they did not mention "Abu Hurayra" in his deed.
2476-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Continue to do good deeds before seven things come, what are you waiting for? Is it poverty that will make you forget everything, is it wealth that makes you forget everything, or is it the disease that corrupts all the powers of the body? Is it his old age that causes dementia, or his sudden death? Or the strife of the Antichrist that is expected to come? Or are you waiting for the doomsday hour? whose coming is more dreadful and more painful.” (Musnad: 7952) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Muhrîz b. We know from the narration of Harun. Bishr b. Umar and others reported this hadith in this way by Muhriz b. They narrated from Aaron. He related this hadith from someone who heard it from Saîd al-Makburî and Abu Hurayra in a similar way and said, "Are you waiting?" it begins.
2477-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Remember the one who cuts off all tastes, that is, death." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 31) A hadith was also reported from Abu Said on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib.
2478-) According to the narration from Osman's freed slave Hani (radiyallahu anh): When Osman stood by a grave, he would cry until his beard got wet. He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The grave is the first of the stays of the hereafter. If one gets rid of it, the rest is easy from him. If he doesn't get rid of it, after that, it's heavier." Uthman continued as follows: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whatever a terrible sight I saw, the grave; is the scariest of all.” (Ibn Mâce, Zuhd: 32) hadith hasen garib and Hisham b. We know from the narration of Yusuf.
2479-) Ubade b. According to the narration from Samit (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever wants to meet Allah, Allah wants to meet with that person. Whoever does not want to meet Allah, Allah does not like to meet him.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 32) There are also hadiths about this subject from Abu Hurayra, Aisha, Enes, and Abu Musa. This Ubada hadith is hasan authentic.
2480-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: When the verse "Warn your close relatives" was revealed; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "O Safiyya, daughter of Abdulmuttalib, O Fatima, daughter of Muhammad, O sons of Abdulmuttalib, I have no power to protect you against the punishments of Allah, I can only give it if you want from my property..." (Muslim, Faith: 34; Nesâî, Vesâyâ: 88) A hadith was also reported from Abu Hurayra, Abu Musa, and Ibn Abbas on this subject. The hadith of Aisha is hasan garib. Some of them were Hisham b. They narrated a similar hadith from Urwa. Again, some of them did not mention "Aisha" by narrating from Hisham and her father as a mursal.
2481-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A person who weeps out of the awareness of his responsibility towards Allah will not enter Hell unless the milk that is milked turns to the breast. The dust and the smoke of Hell will not come together with those who work hard to make the religion of Allah dominate the earth.” (Nesâî, Jihâd: 9; İbn Mâce: Jihad: 64) A hadîth was also reported from Abû Reyhane and Ibn Abbas on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. Muhammed b. Abdurrahman, a freed slave of the Talha family, is from Medina, he is a reliable person, and Shu'ba and Sufyan al-Sevri narrated hadiths from him.
2482-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I see what you do not see and hear what you do not hear. The sky crackled and it was right to crack because there was no place for four fingers in the sky that the angels did not fill it while prostrating, I swear if you knew what I know, you would laugh less and cry a lot, you would not enjoy women on your beds, you would pour into the streets and beg Allah. So even I wanted to be a tree that was cut down and destroyed.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 19; Bukhari, Rikak: 27) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Abu Hurayra, Aisha, Ibn Abbas and Enes. This hadith is hasan garib. In a narration made in another way, it is reported that Abu Dharr said: "I also wanted to be a tree that was cut down and destroyed."
2483-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If you knew what I know, you would surely laugh less and weep much." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 19; Bukhari, Rikak: 27) the hadith is hasan authentic.
2484-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A person utters a word and sees nothing wrong with what he says, but because of that word, he will go down to the bottom for seventy years in Hell. ” (Muslim, Zuhd: 7) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
2485-) Behz b. According to the narration of Hakim's father and grandfather, he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "Shame on him who tells lies to make people laugh." (Abu Dâvûd: Adab: 38; Dârimî, Istisan: 6) A hadith was also reported from Abu Huraira on this subject. This hadith is hasan.
2486-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “One of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) passed away. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do you know? Maybe this person made unnecessary words on a subject that does not concern him or did not spend on matters that would benefit him and was stingy.” (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 21) This hadith is strange.
2487-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “To abandon unnecessary and useless things is because he is a good Muslim.” (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 21) This hadith is strange, and we know this hadith from Abu Salama's narration from Abu Huraira in this way.
2488-) Ali b. According to a narration from Husayn, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is one of the good things of Islam to abandon unnecessary and useless things." (Ibn Mâce, Fiten: 21; Muvatta, Cami: 2) Many of Zühri's friends heard this hadith from Zühri, Ali b. They narrated it from Husayn in a similar way to the hadith of Malik, but as a mursal. This narration comes from Abu Salama, Abu Huraira and Ali b. It is more solid than the narration from Husayn. Because Ali b. Husayn Ali b. Abi Talib could not catch up.
2489-) According to the narration from Haris al-Muhazani, one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: He does not know what his word will gain in the way of gaining Allah's approval, but Allah makes it necessary for him until he meets him because of this word. Again, if one of you utters a word, he gets the wrath of Allah with this word, and he does not know what he will gain from Allah's wrath with this word. But because of this word, Allah may make it necessary for him to be angry with him until the day he meets him.” (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 17; Muwatta, Cami: 3) A hadith was also reported from Umm Habibe on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. Many narrators reported this hadith from Muhammad b. Narrating from Amr as here: “Muhammad b. From Amr, from his father, from his grandfather, Bilal b. They said, “From Harîs.” This hadith was also reported from Malik, and in his book, "Muhammad b. From Amr, from his father, Bilal b. It was said from Harîs, not from his grandfather.
2490-) Sahl b. According to a narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If the world were the equivalent of a mosquito's wing in the sight of Allah (that is, if the entire world and its contents were worth this much), a disbeliever would not drink a sip of water in the world." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 3) A hadith was also reported from Abu Hurayra on this subject. This hadith is authentic as it is.
2491-) Müstevrid b. According to the narration from Shaddad, he said: "I was with the community standing at the head of a dead goat with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do you think that when this dead goat was thrown by its owners, it was discarded because it lost its value? The Companions said: “Yes, O Messenger of Allah! They threw him out because he was worthless.” Thereupon, they said: "The world is worth less in the sight of Allah than that dead goat is worthless." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 3) There are also hadiths from Jabir and Ibn Omar. Mustevrid hadith is hasan.
2492-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Beware! The world and all that is in it is utterly cursed. In other words, they have been removed from the mercy of Allah. However, with things that lead to the remembrance of Allah and to gain Allah's approval; Everything and everyone else, except one who is a scholar and learns and teaches knowledge.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 3) This hadith is hasan garib.
2493-) According to a narration from Mustevrid (radiyallahu anh), one of the sons of Fihr, he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: It's like one of you dipping your finger in the sea. Let him see how much water that finger returns from the sea.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Abu Khalid is known as Abu Abdullah. Kays's father is Abu Hazim. His name is Abd b. He is an avf and a companion.
2494-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “The world; It is a prison for the believer and a Paradise for the unbeliever.” (Ibn Mace, Zuhd: 3; Muslim, Zuhd: 1) Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2495-) According to the narration from Abu Kabsha al-Anmari (radiyallahu anh), he heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) himself saying: "There are three features that I swear by them. and he said: “A servant's wealth does not decrease by giving alms. Allah increases the honor of the servant who is patient with the injustices he has suffered. For a person who opens the door of begging, Allah opens the door of poverty -or he used a similar expression- I will tell you a word, keep it in your memory, then he said: There are four classes of people in the world; A servant whom Allah has given wealth and knowledge, who finds his way through his Lord in this blessing, does not cut off his contact with Muslims and relatives, knows what Allah's right is in that blessing and does what is necessary. This servant is of the highest rank in the sight of Allah. Again, a servant whom Allah gave knowledge and did not give him wealth. The intention of this servant is correct, and he says: If I had property, I would do it like so-and-so did. They are equal in merit with the previous person. Again, a servant whom Allah has given sustenance but not knowledge. Due to knowledge and ignorance, he spends his wealth unevenly, does not feel responsible for his Lord, cuts off his relations with his relatives and Muslims, and does not fulfill Allah's right in that property. This person is in the worst situation. There is another servant: Allah has given him neither wealth nor knowledge. This person also says: If I had property, I would spend it in bad ways like anyone else. He will be rewarded according to his intention, and the sins of both are equal.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 8) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2496-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person has a financial problem and tries to make up for it, that person's need will not be met. And whoever has a financial problem and presents this problem to Allah, Allah will help him sooner or later.” (Abu Dawud, Zakat: 14) This hadith is hasan sahih.
2497-) According to the narration from Abu Vâil (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Ebû Haşim b. He came to visit Utba and said: O my uncle! what makes you cry Is it a pain that bothers you? Or the greed of the world? Abu Hashim replied: “None of them, but the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) told me something that I could not hold back; He said: "What is enough for you as wealth is a servant and a thousand to use in the way of Allah, but today I see myself as having accumulated a lot of wealth." (Nesâî, Ziyne: 120; İbn Mâce, Zühd: 17) Zaîde and Ubeyde b. Humayd reported this hadith from Mansur, from Abu Vail, from Samura b. Narrated by Sehm, they said: "Muawiya entered Abu Hashim..." and he narrates a similar hadith. A hadith has also been narrated from Burayra al-Aslemi.
2498-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do not acquire income-generating things such as farms or the like, so you will incline towards the world." (Musnad: 3398) This hadith is hasan.
2499-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Busr (radiyallahu anh): A Bedouin, O Messenger of Allah! said. Who is the best of people? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "He has a long life and good deeds." (Musnad: 17030) A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira and Jabir on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
2500-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh), a man O Messenger of Allah! said. Who is the best of people? “They said: He has a long life and good deeds. Again he asked: What is the worst of men? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "He is a person whose life is long and whose deeds are bad." (Dârimî, Rikak: 21) This hadith is hasan authentic as it is.
2501-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The average life span of my ummah is between sixty and seventy." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 7) This hadith is hasan garib as Abu Salih's narration from Abu Huraira. It has also been narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways.
2502-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The Hour will not come until the time becomes barren and years become months, months, weeks, weeks, days, hours, hours, until dry grass is burned in the fire.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is garib in this form, and Sa'd b. Said, Yahya b. Said's brother.
2503-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) grabbed my shoulder and said: "Be like a stranger in this world, like a foreigner, even a traveller! Consider yourself as one of the people of the grave.” Ibn Umar used to say: “Do not talk about going out in the evening when you get up in the morning, take advantage of your health before your illness and your life before your death. O Abdullah, is your name happy tomorrow? Unfortunate? You don't know what will happen." (Bukhari, Rikak: 37; Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 14) This hadith was narrated by A'mesh from Mujahid and Ibn Omar in a similar way.
2504-) Ahmed b. Abde ed Dabbi al Basrî, Hammad b. He narrated a similar hadith from Lays, Mujahid, and Ibn Umar through Zayd.
2505-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) pointed at a person or himself with his hand and said, “This is the son of Adam,” and by pointing to that person’s relative, this is his death. Said. Then he took his hand to his neck and extended his hand, meaning the closeness of the distance, and the desires and wishes of human beings are ahead, ahead, ahead. (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Said on this subject.
2506-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he said: While we were repairing a reed house that belonged to us, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) stopped by us and said; "What is this? What are you doing?” he said. We said: It is about to collapse and we are repairing it, they said, "I think death will come sooner than this". (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 57; İbn Mâce, Zuhd: 15) This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu's Sefer was Said b. is Mohammed. He is also called Ibn Ahmad al-Sevri.
2507-) Ka'b b. According to a narration from Iyaz (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Every nation has a fitna, and my nation’s trouble is wealth.” (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 18) This hadith is hasan sahih, and this hadith was transmitted only by Muawiya b. We know it as the narration of Salih.
2508-) Enes b. According to what is reported from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If the son of Adam had two valleys of gold, he would like the third valley to be his. However, only earth fills the mouth of a human being. However, Allah accepts the repentance of those who repent.” (Muslim, Zakat: 39; Dârimî, Rikak: 62) Ubey b. Hadiths were also narrated from Ka'b, Abu Said, Aisha, Ibn Zubayr, Abu Vakid, Jabir, Ibn Abbas and Abu Huraira. As such, this hadith is hasan sahih garib.
2509-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "The heart of an old man is young against longevity and excess wealth." (Muslim, Zakat: 38; Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2510-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “As the son of Adam gets older, his two aspects become younger; to be long-lived and to obtain a lot of goods.” (Muslim, Zakat: 38; Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2511-) According to a narration from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “To turn away from the world and abandon the love of the world does not mean that a person makes halal things unlawful for himself or abandons his property. But it means abandoning true asceticism and love of the world; It means that you do not have more hope for the things you have in your hands than the possibilities and blessings in the sight of Allah. Or, the reward you will gain due to a trouble and trouble that has happened to you should be better and better than the property you lost because of that trouble and trouble. This is what true asceticism and love of the world should be.” (Ibn Mâce, Zuhd: 1) This hadith is strange and we only know it as such. The name of Abu İdris el Havlani is Aizullah b. Abdullah. Amr b. Waqid is someone who conveys munkar hadiths.
2512-) Osman b. According to the narration from Afwan (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The son of Adam has no right to anything but the following: A house to sit in, clothes to cover his body, bread and water.” (Dârimî, Rikak: 10) This hadith is hasan authentic. The words of this hadith are Hurays b. It is the narration of Saib. Ebû Dâvûd, Süleyman b. I heard from Selm al-Belhi, he was saying: Nadr b. Şümeyl used to say: The meaning of "Cif-ül hubzi" in the hadith means bread that does not have any additives.
2513-) According to the narration from Mutrif (radiyallahu anh)'s father, when he arrived at the conversation of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to comment on the chapter of Takasur as follows: "The work of accumulating and multiplying wealth distracts you, but the son of man says my property is your property, but your property is what you send to the hereafter by giving alms, what you eat, consume and wear." (Muslim, Zuhd: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2514-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O son of Adam, if you spend and distribute more than you need, it is good for you. If you save and keep it, it is harmful for you. You will not be blamed for saving enough to make a living, you are always better than the hand that takes the hand from the people you take your livelihood over first..." (Muslim, Zakat: 32) This hadith is hasan. Shaddad b. Abdullah; He is known as Abu Ammar.
2515-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If you had put your trust and reliance on Allah with true trust, you would have been provided sustenance just as birds are provided for. Because those birds go out hungry in the morning and come back in the evening with their crops full.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 14) This hadith is hasan and we know it only as it is. Ebû Temîm el Ceyşanî's name was Abdullah b. He is Malik.
2516-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: There were two brothers at the time of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). One of them would come to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and try to learn something, and the other would become an artist and work to earn their living. The working brother complained to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that his other brother was not working and was eating for free, upon which the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Perhaps you are getting sustenance because of that brother." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 14) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2517-) Ubeydullah b. According to the narration from Mihsan al-Hatmi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever among you is mentally and physically healthy and has daily food with him, it is as if all the blessings of the world have been gathered for him.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd; 9) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Marwan b. We know from the narration of Muawiya. The word “Hîzet” mentioned above means gathered.
2518-) Likewise, Muhammad b. İsmail, Mervan b. He narrated a similar hadith from Muawiya. A hadith was also narrated from Abu'd Darda on the subject.
2519-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “My best friend is in every situation, whether in secret or open, who is always sensitive in his prayer, whose wealth and burden is light on people, and does his duty to his Lord in the best way possible. He who obeys Allah is a believer who has enough food to live and is patient with his sustenance and everything. Then he clapped his hands together, attracting the attention of the audience, and continued: “He who dies quickly, weeps, and inherits little.” It is also narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: I said no, my Lord, one day I will be full and one day I will be hungry (three days or something similar). When I am hungry, I beg you and remember you. (Bukhari, Rikak: 16) This hadith is hasan.
2520-) In this regard, Fedâle b. A hadith was also narrated from Ubayd al-Kasim. This person is Abdurrahman's son and is known as Abu Abdurrahman. It is said that he was named Abu Abdulmalik. He was Abdurrahman b. Khalid b. Yazid b. He is the freed slave of Muawiya. He is shaman and reliable. Ali b. Yazid is weak in hadith and is labeled as Abu Abdulmalik.
2521-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A person who becomes a Muslim by submitting to Allah's commands and surrendering to Allah with all his will is truly saved. Blessed is the one who is contented, whose sustenance is sufficient for him.” (Muslim, Zakat: 43) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2522-) Fedâle b. Ubayd (radiy-Allâhu anh) heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Blessed is the one who is guided to Islam and whose livelihood is self-sufficient and content.” (Musnad: 22818) The name of Abu Hani is Humayd b. Hani. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2523-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mugaffel (radiyallahu anh), he said: “A man told the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); O Messenger of Allah! “I really love you,” he said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Be careful with what you say." When the man says I really love you again; Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), be careful what you say, are you serious? He commanded. The man repeated the same word for the third time, saying, "By God, I really love you." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If you love me, prepare a shield against poverty because poverty will come to those who love me; It is swift as the flood flows into a stop.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
2524-) Nasr b. Ali through his father Şeddâd b. He has conveyed a similar meaning of this hadith from Abi Talha to us. This hadith is hasan garib. Ebû'l Vazî' er Rasibî's name is Câbir b. It is Amr. He is from Basra.
2525-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The poor of the emigrants will enter Paradise five hundred years before the rich.” (Ibn Mace, Zuhd: 6) In this regard, Abu Hurayra, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr and Jabir. This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
2526-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “May Allah keep me poor and take my life as poor and resurrect me among the poor on the Day of Judgment. Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) asked why, O Messenger of Allah, and the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Because they will enter Paradise forty years before their wealthy ones. O Aisha! Give something to the poor, even with half a date. O Aisha! Love the poor and be close to them, and Allah will bring you closer to Paradise on the Day of Judgment.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 6) This hadith is strange.
2527-) According to what is narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The poor will enter Paradise five hundred years, half a day before the rich.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 6) Surah 47. The interpretation of verse should be looked at) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2528-) Again, according to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The poor of Muslims will enter Paradise half a day before their rich ones, which will be five centuries." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 6) This hadith is authentic.
2529-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The poor of Muslims will enter Paradise forty years before the rich." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 6) This hadith is hasan.
2530-) According to the narration from Masrûk (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I went to Aisha and she brought me food and she said: “When I am satisfied with a meal, I want to cry and I cry.” I asked him why, and he said: "I remember the moment when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) left the world, I swear he could not fill his stomach with meat and bread twice a day." (Muslim, Zuhd: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2531-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not get enough of barley bread for two days in a row until he passed away." (Ibn Majah, Etima: 49) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira on the subject.
2532-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Neither he nor his family were satisfied with wheat bread for three consecutive days until the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) left the world." (Ibn Majah, Etima: 48) The hadith is hasan garib in this form.
2533-) Selim b. According to the narration from Amir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard Abu Umama say: “Even barley bread would not increase because there were no more people from the household of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Ibn Majah, Etima: 48) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. b. Abu Bukayr is from Kufa. Abu Bukayr; He is Yahya's father. Sufyan as-Tevri narrated hadith from him. Yahya b. Abdullah b. Bukayr is Egyptian and is a friend of Leys.
2534-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would spend several consecutive nights starving, and his family would not even be able to find dinner. Their bread was mostly barley bread.” (Ibn Majah, Etima: 48) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2535-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray: “O Allah, make the sustenance of the family of Muhammad sufficient enough.” (Muslim, Zuhd: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2536-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not hide anything for tomorrow.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. This hadith is from Jafar b. It is narrated from Solomon and Sabit as mursal.
2537-) Anas (radiyallahu anh) said in the narration: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not eat on a high table or similar things until the end of his life. He did not eat bread from sifted pure flour. (Ibn Maje, Etime: 44) This hadith is from Said b. It is hasan sahih garib as the hadith of Ebi Aruba.
2538-) Sahl b. According to the narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), he was asked: "Did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) eat bread made from sifted, pure flour?" Sahl said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not see bread made of fine flour until he met Allah. Again, it was said to Sahl: Was there a sieve to sift flour at the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? He replied that we did not have a sieve. So how did you make the barley? He was asked; He said: We used to blow the dandruff, and then we would wet it and make dough. (Ibn Majah, Etima: 44) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Anas narrated this hadith from Abu Hazim.
2539-) Kays b. According to the narration from Abu Hazim (radiyallahu anh), he said: Sa'd b. I heard Abi Wakkas say: I am the first person to shed blood in the way of Allah, and I am the first to shoot an arrow in the way of Allah. Once I was fighting with a group of the companions of Muhammad (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) when we were eating tree leaves and vine sticks in that war. Therefore, the excrement of each of us was like the excrement of sheep and camels. Now Esedoğulları; They started to dislike me about religion. If it is as they say, it means I am at a loss and all my deeds have been in vain. (Muslim, Zuhd: 1) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as the narration of the Beyan.
2540-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he says: I was the first of the Arabs to shoot arrows in the way of Allah. We were fighting together with the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) in this war. Now Esedoğulları started to like me about religion. If it is as they say, it means that I am at a loss and all my deeds have been in vain. (Muslim, Zuhd: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic. on the subject of Utba b. Hadith was also narrated from Ghazwan.
2541-) Muhammed b. According to the narration from Sirin (radiyallahu anh), he said: “We were with Abu Hurayra, he was wearing two linen clothes; He wiped his nose at someone and said: Wow, Abu Hurayra is wiping his nose on a linen dress. However, I once saw myself staggering and fainting between the pulpit of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and Aisha's room. By the way, he would step his foot on my neck, thinking that I was insane. However, I was not crazy. I was just hungry.” (Bukhari, İtisam: 9) This hadith is hasan sahih in its form.
2542-) Fedâle b. According to the narration from Ubayd (radiyallahu anh), while the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was praying in congregation, some people fainted due to hunger. When the Bedouins saw them, they said they were crazy. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) had finished his prayer, he went to them and said: "If you knew what you have in the sight of Allah, you would want your need and distress to increase even more." Fadala says: I was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) that day. (Musnad: 22813) This hadith is authentic.
2543-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went out of his house at a time when he would not always go out and could not meet anyone. Then Abu Bakr came to him. For what reason are you here at this hour, O Abu Bakr! Said. Abu Bakr said: I went out in the hope that I would meet the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and see his face and greet him. Omer came soon after. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him, "What thing has taken you out at this hour?" Omar: Hunger, O Messenger of Allah! said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, 'I have hunger too. Then all three of them walked towards the house of Abu'l Heysem et Teyyihan al-Ansari. Abu al-Haytham was a man with plenty of dates and sheep, he had no servants. They could not find him at home, and where is your wife to the lady of the house? they said. The lady said: He had gone to bring us fresh drinking water. After a while, Abu al-Haytham came out with a full water whip. After laying his whip on the ground, he came and hugged the Prophet and said that his parents had been sacrificed for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Then he took them to his garden and set up an exhibition, and brought a bunch of palm branches together, ripe and unripe, from the palm tree, and laid it out. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Didn't you bring us some ripe ones? he commanded. Abu al-Haytham: O Messenger of Allah! He said, “I brought it this way so that you can choose it yourself or choose whichever you want, wet or dry, and eat it. So they ate those dates and drank fresh water. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "By Allah, who holds my soul in His hand, you will be questioned about these blessings on the Day of Judgment. Coolness and shade, nice dates and water…” While Abu'l Haytham was going to prepare food, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do not worry! Do not slaughter an animal with milk! Abu'l-Haytham slaughtered a male or female kid, prepared and brought them together, and they ate it together. said. Abu al-Haytham said no. When the prisoners of war came, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to come to us. Two prisoners of war were brought to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). There was no third. Abu'l-Haytham applied, and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to choose one of the two. Abu'l-Haytham said: O Messenger of Allah, you choose for me. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: 'The person who is consulted is the one who can be trusted'. “Take this because I saw him praying,” he said. He said to treat her well. Abu'l-Haytham went to his wife and told her about her situation, and said, "You must set her free in order to fulfill the promise of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to treat her well." Abu'l Haytham said he is free. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Every Prophet and state administrator sent by Allah has two types of people; One of them always enjoins the good and forbids him from the evil, and the other is constantly causing him difficulties and burdening him, whoever is protected from bad friends and staff will truly be protected from all kinds of evil. (Muslim, Esribe: 99) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
2544-) Abu Salama b. It was narrated from Abdurrahman (radiyallahu anh). He quoted a similar hadith saying, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went out with Abu Bakr and Umar one day..." and did not mention Abu Huraira in the document. The hadith is wider and longer than the hadith of Abu Avana. Shayban is a person trusted by hadith scholars and has a book he wrote. This hadith was narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways. It was also narrated from Ibn Abbas.
2545-) According to what was narrated from Abu Talha (radiyallahu anh), he said: We complained to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) about hunger and showed the stones we tied to our bellies, then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) showed the two stones that he had tied to his stomach. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We only know this way.
2546-) Numân b. I heard from Bashir (radiyallahu anh) that he was saying: “Are you not into food and drink as much as you wish? However, I saw that your Prophet could not even find dates that were bad enough to fill his stomach.” (Muslim, Zuhd: 1) This hadith is authentic. Abu Avane and others reported this hadith from Sîmak b. He narrated Harb like the narration of Abu'l Ahvas. Shu'ba derived this hadith from Sîmak, Numan b. Hadith was narrated from Bashir and Umar.
2547-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Real wealth is not in the abundance of wealth, but in the wealth of the heart.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 9) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Husayn's name is Osman b. He is Asim al-Asadî.
2548-) Hamza b. According to what is reported from Hawla (radiyallahu anha), the daughter of Abdulmuttalib's wife, Qays, she said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: This worldly property is attractive and sweet, and whoever tries to get it properly will find it for himself. prosperous and auspicious. Whoever tries to take the booty that Allah and the Prophet will distribute by using different means, will only have fire for him on the Day of Judgment. (Bukhari, Rikak: 10; Dârimî, Rikak: 37) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu'l Walid's name is Ubayd Senuta.
2549-) According to a narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Cursed are those who serve dinars and dirhams." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 8) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. The hadith was narrated differently from Abu Salih, longer than Abu Hurayra.
2550-) Ka'b b. According to the narration from Malik al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Two hungry wolves released on a flock of sheep do no more harm to that herd than the greed for wealth and position inflicts on one's religion.” (Darimi, Rikak: 21) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Umar on this subject, and its narration is not sound.
2551-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) slept on a mat and when he got up, the scar of the mat was on his side. Thereupon, O Messenger of Allah! we said, let's get you a bed. Thereupon, they said: I have no business with the comfort of the world. In the world, I am like a traveler who gets shaded under a tree and then leaves.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 3) A hadith has also been reported from Omar and Ibn Abbas on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2552-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A person follows the religion of his friend. So one should take good care of whom to make friends with.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 16) This hadith is hasan garib.
2553-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Three things follow the funeral, then two of them come back and one stays with the funeral. His family, property and deeds go with the funeral, then his property and family come back and his deeds stay with the funeral.” (Muslim, Zuhd: 1; Bukhari, Rikak: 30) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2554-) Mıkdam b. According to the narration from Ma'dikerib (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: "The son of Adam did not fill a vessel worse than his stomach. It is enough for Adam's son to eat and drink enough to sustain himself. If he eats more than this amount, let him divide his stomach into three parts; some should be reserved for food, some for soft drinks and some for breathing.” (Ibn Maje, Etim: 50)
2555-) Hasan b. Arefe Ismail b. He narrated a similar hadith to us through a drunkard. Mıkdam b. In this narration, Ma'dikerib does not say that he heard it from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) when he says it from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). This hadith is hasan authentic.
2556-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever does something to show off, Allah will make people hear what he does for show off. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) continued as follows, so that whoever worships and worships so that others can hear, Allah will let people hear about that person's work. Allah is not merciful to those who are not merciful to people.” (Ibn Mace, Zuhd: 21) In this regard, Hundep and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. This hadith is hasan authentic as it is.
2557-) According to the narration from Şüfey al-Asbahi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When Şüfey entered Medina, he met a man around whom people gathered. Who is this man? She asked. They said: This is Abu Huraira. While he was talking to people, I approached him and sat next to him. When he finished his speech and was left alone, I said to him: I am asking you for the sake of this and that, can you tell me a hadith that you heard, understood, knew and heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? Abu Huraira said, 'I will do what you want. I will tell you a hadith that I understood and learned that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told me. Thereupon, Abu Huraira said; He sighed deeply, waited for a while, then came to his senses and said: I will tell you a hadith that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told me when there was no one else in this house but me and him. After that he sighed again, then regained consciousness, wiped his face and said I will. He said, "I will tell you a hadith that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told me when there was no one else in this house but me and him. Then Abu Huraira sighed again, then he fell face down, I held him against me for a long time, then he sobered up and said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told me that; “On the Day of Judgment, Allah will come down to judge between His servants. All societies are on their knees that day. The first people Allah will call will be those who know and memorize the Qur'an, those who are killed in the way of Allah, and those who have a lot of wealth. He will say to those who know the Qur'an: Didn't I teach you the book that I sent down to my Messenger? That person will say yes, O Lord, and Allah will say: How did you live with the Qur'an you learned, what did you do? He will say. The man will answer that day and night, I did not let go of the Qur'an. Then Allah will say that you are lying and the angels will say that you are lying. Allah will say: You did not read the Qur'an or anything. On the contrary, you read it so that they would say that someone reads the Qur'an and knows the Qur'an, and it was said that way. Someone who owns property will be brought, and Allah has expanded your sustenance and made him live without needing anyone? The rich person will say: Yes, O Lord, Allah will say: What did you do with the property I gave you? He will say. The rich person will say: I don't have relatives, I would spend by helping the poor. They will say that you lied to Allah, and the angels will say that you lied. Allah will say: You did not do as you said, but I did all these things so that they would say that someone is generous. Then the person who was killed in the way of Allah will be brought and Allah will say to him: What did you die for? You ordered jihad for that person, and he will say, "I made jihad and became a martyr." They will say, "You are lying to the angels, you are lying to the angels." Upon this, Allah will say: No, I wanted it to be said, "How brave are you," he will say, "and you have been told." Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) hit my knee and said: O Abu Huraira, these three people are the first people created by Allah in their own subject. Hell fire will be kindled with them on the Day of Judgment. Abu Usman said: Ukbe b. According to what Muslim told me, Sufayy himself went to Muawiya and told him about this hadith. Uthman says: Âla b. Abi Hakim explained that he was Muawiya's bodyguard and said: A man entered Muawiya's presence and narrated this hadith to him from Abu Huraira. Muawiya said: What will be done to the rest of the people if this is done to them? He said and wept loudly, we thought he was going to lose his life and we said that this man has brought disaster on us. Then Muawiya came to his senses, wiped his face and said: "Allah and His Messenger always speak the right word," Surah Hud 15-16. read his verses; “As for those who want the life of this world and its amazing deceptive ornaments and blessings, We will repay them in full for what they have done in this world, and they will never be deprived of what they deserve there. These are the people for whom nothing but fire will fall upon their share in the Hereafter. Because what they do in this world will always be in vain. Everything they did was pointless and worthless.” (Muslim, Imara: 27; Nesai, Jihad: 86) This hadith is hasan garib.
2558-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Seek refuge in Allah from the well of sadness." What is the well of sadness? They said: O Messenger of Allah. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Thereupon, the Companions said: Who will enter it? He said: Those who read and serve to show off will enter there. (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 52) This hadith is hasan garib.
2559-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: A man, O Messenger of Allah! He said: "A person does a deed and keeps it secret so that no one can see it, and then he likes it when he learns about it from others." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are two rewards for that person; The thawab of secrecy because one's deed conceals it, and the thawab of doing it openly because it sets an example for others.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 16) This hadith is hasan garib. and others Habib b. They narrated from Ebi Thabit and Abu Salih as mursal. A'mesh's friends did not mention Abu Hurayra in these narrations. Some scholars have interpreted the saying of this hadith, "Then he will like it when he learns it from others" as follows: Because the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “You; You are the witnesses of Allah on earth”, so if he does not like people to praise him, if he likes people to know that he has done good and therefore to be honored and respected by people, this is show and hypocrisy. Some scholars also say: If he learns about the charity that he has done secretly from someone else and hopes that they will act in the same way he does, if he likes it, then he will receive as much reward as those who act in this way. This is a different conversation.
2560-) Enes b. It was narrated from Malik (radiyallahu anh). A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah, when will the Doomsday come? She asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) stood up for prayer and when he finished his prayer; “Where is the one who asks about the Hour? He commanded. The man said: I am O Messenger of Allah. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "What have you prepared for the Day of Judgment?" he commanded. The man said: "I could not prepare many prayers and fasts for the Day of Judgment, but I love Allah and His Messenger." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person is with the one he loves, and you will be with the one you love," he said. I have never seen Muslims rejoice in anything else as much as they are happy with this statement, except that they are Muslims.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 113; Muslim, Birr: 50) This hadith is authentic.
2561-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person is with the one he loves. Whatever good and evil he gains is his own.” (Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 113; Muslim, Birr: 50) Ali, Abdullah b. Mes'ûd, Safvân b. Hadith was also narrated from Assal, Abu Huraira and Abu Musa. This hadith is hasan garib, as reported by Hasan-i Basri from Anas. This hadith was narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in different ways.
2562-) Safwan b. According to the narration from Assal (radiyallahu anh), he said: A bedouin with a loud voice came and said: “O Muhammad! A person loves a society but has not been like them in every way, what about this person?” said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person is with the one he loves." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 113; Muslim, Birr: 50) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2563-) Ahmed b. Abde ed Dabbi, Hammad b. Zayd, from Asım, Zir, Safvân b. He transmitted a similar hadith of Mahmud from Assal to us.
2564-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Allah says: I am with my servant's guess of me, I am with him when he prays for me." (Ibn Majah, Adab: 53) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2565-) Nevvâs b. It is narrated from Sam'an: "What is the reward and sin for a man to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)?" she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Birr, goodness (reward) and being a good Muslim means having good morals. And sin is that which is scratching your heart and you don't want people to know." (Dârimî, Rikak: 73; Muslim, Birr: 5)
2566-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Abdurrahman b. Mahdi through Muaviye b. He quoted a similar hadith from Salih, and in that narration there is the expression: "I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)". This hadith is hasan authentic.
2567-) Muâz b. Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh) heard from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Allah said: “There are pulpits of light for those who love each other for my greatness. Prophets and martyrs will envy them.” (Musnad: 2121) from Abu'd Darda, Ibn Mas'ud, Ubade b. Hadith was also narrated from Samit, Abu Huraira and Abu Malik al-Ash'ari. This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Muslim al Havlani, Abdullah b. It is Seveb.
2568-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira and Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah will shade seven people in His shade on a day when there is no shade but His own shade; A just head of state, a young man who grew up worshiping Allah, a person whose heart is attached to the mosque until the hour he returns from the mosque, two people who love each other for the sake of Allah and separate with this love, who shed tears while remembering Allah even though they are alone no one, upon the call of a beautiful and noble woman; I, the person who does not approach that woman by saying I fear Allah, The person who gives charity is the person who acts so secretly that his left hand does not know what his right hand gives in charity.” (Muslim, Zakat: 30; Nasai, Qudat: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith is also attributed to Malik b. It was also narrated from Enes. Malik, doubting the evidence of the hadith, says from Abu Huraira or Abu Said. Ubeydullah b. Umar reported this hadith from Habib b. He narrated from Abdurrahman and did not say "From Abu Hurayra" without doubt in his deed.
2569-) Sevvar b. Abdullah al Anberi and Muhammed b. Musenna said: Yahya b. Said by Ubeydullah b. Umar, Habib, Hafs b. From Âsım and Abu Huraira, meaning Malik b. They narrated a hadith like the hadith of Anas, and in this narration it says: "The person whose heart hangs over the mosques" and "A beautiful woman with a position". The hadith is hasan sahih garib. Mikdam is known as Abu Kureyma.
2570-) If one of you loves a brother for Allah's sake, let him know.
2571-) Yazid b. According to the narration from Neâme ed Dabbi (radiy-Allâhu anh): If a person makes friends with a person, he should ask the name of that person, his father's name and who he is from, because it will cause a more sincere intimacy.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange and we know it only as it is. Yazid b. We do not know whether Naama heard hadiths from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). A similar hadith has been narrated from Ibn Umar, and its narration is not authentic.
2572-) According to what is reported from Abu Ma'mar (radiyallahu anh), he said: A man got up and started praising one of the state officials. He started scattering soil on his face in Miqdad and said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us to scatter soil on the faces of the praisers.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 9; Ibn Majah, Adab: 36) hadiths were also reported from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allāhu anh). This hadith is hasan authentic. Zaide, Yazid b. He narrated this hadith from Abî Ziyâd, Mujahid, and Ibn Abbas. The narration of Mujahid from Abu Ma'mer is more authentic. The name of Abu Ma'mer was Abdullah b. It is Sahbere. Mıkdad b. Aswad is; Mıkdad b. He is Amr al Kindi and is known as Abu Ma'bed. Aswad b. As for Abdi Yeghusa, Esved adopted him at a young age.
2573-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us to pour soil into the mouths of the praisers unjustly.” (As reported by Tirmidhi.) As the hadith of Abu Hurayra, this hadith is strange.
2574-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Become friends only with believers, and those who find their way with Allah and the Prophets should eat their food.” (Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 16) This hadith is hasan and we know this hadith only in this way.
2575-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If Allah wishes evil and evil for a servant, he postpones the punishment he will suffer for his sin so that he will come before Allah with the sins that he will be rewarded for on the Day of Judgment. ”
2576-) With the same deed, the following came from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “The size of the reward depends on the size of the calamity. God loves a society and tests them with various troubles. Whoever is pleased will gain Allah's approval. And whoever shows anger, Allah will be angry with that person.” (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 23) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
2577-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “I have never seen aches and pains be as severe for anyone as they were for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh).” (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 11) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2578-) According to the narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) which of the people was in serious trouble, he said: "Prophets, those who are close to the Prophet as a way of life after them, then close to them. those. A person is afflicted in proportion to his religiosity. If he is firm in his religion, his affliction will be aggravated. If he is lax in his religion, he will be in trouble according to his piety. Trouble does not abandon the servant, and in the end, the servant is cleansed of his sins until there is no more sin on him. (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 23) This hadith is hasan authentic. In this regard, Abu Huraira and Huzeyfe b. There is also a narration from Yeman's sister as follows: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was asked which people's affliction was more severe. They said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), then those who are close to him in life and belief, then those who are close to them.”
2579-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Until the day when believing men and believing women meet Allah, troubles will continue to befall them either in themselves, their children or their property. it will.” (Musnad: 7521) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2580-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Allah said: "If I take my servant's eye, which is his two precious organs, in this world, his reward for me is only Paradise." (Dârimî, Rikak: 76) Abu Hurayra and Zayd b. A hadith was also narrated from Arkam. This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Abu Zilal's name is Hilal.
2581-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) is narrated as follows: Allah says: “If I remove two lovely organs of a person and he waits patiently and expects his reward from me, I will not be satisfied with anything other than Paradise.” (Dârimî, Rikak: 76) Irbad b. A hadith was also narrated from Sariye. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2582-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When those who suffer trouble and distress on the Day of Judgment will be rewarded, those who do not suffer in the world will want their skin to be cut and shredded with sharp tools.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is garib. Only with this deed and this way we know. Some say this hadith from A'mesh, Talha b. They narrated similarly from Mûsârrif and Mesrûk.
2583-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Everyone who dies will feel regret. Companions: Why will he regret it? they said. He said: "He who does good will regret that he has not increased his goodness, and those who do evil will regret that he has not given up on evil." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) We know this hadith only in this way. Shu'be, Yahya b. He talked about Ubeydullah. The famous name of this person was Yahya b. Ubeydullah b. He is Mevhib el Madani.
2584-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Some people will appear in the End Times and will use religion as a tool for the world. is the heart. Allah says: Do you trust my forgiveness and be proud, or do you trust my mercy and act courageously, I swear to God that I will send them a test from myself, even the mild-tempered ones will be stunned.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Umar on the subject.
2585-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Allah (swt) said: I have created such people whose tongues are sweeter than honey and their hearts are more bitter than the tree of patience. I swear on my own behalf that I will cause them such a temptation that it will astonish even the mild-tempered ones. Are you counting on my forgiveness and acting boldly towards me, hoping for my mercy?” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as the narration of Ibn Umar. We know this hadith only in this way.
2586-) Uqbe b. According to the narration from Amir (radiyallahu anh), he said: What is salvation for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? I asked. They said: “Own your tongue; Don't be too hard on the house, cry for your sins." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan.
2587-) According to what is reported from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh) as a merfu, he said: “When morning comes, all the organs beg the tongue and say: Be mindful of Allah for us, we stand with you, if you are right, we are right. If you bend, we will bow too.” (Musnad: 11472)
2588-) Hennad, through Abu Usama, Hammad b. He narrated a similar hadith from Zayd without merfu. This narration is from Muhammad b. It is more authentic than the narration of Moses. This hadith is only written by Hammad b. We know from the narration of Zayd. Many people refer to this hadith as Hammad b. They narrated it from Zayd without merfu.
2589-) Salih b. Abdullah, Hammad b. Zayd, Abu's Sahba, Said b. He narrated a similar hadith by narrating from Jubayr, Abu Said al-Khudri.
2590-) Sahl b. According to a narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever promises not to use the one between his jaws and the one between his legs in a bad way, I guarantee Paradise for him." (Bukhari, Rikak: 23) hadiths were also reported from Abu Hurayra and Ibn Abbas. The hadith of Sahl is hasan garib.
2591-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever Allah protects from the evil of the one between his jaws and the evil of what is between his two legs, he will enter Paradise.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) The name of Abu Hazim, who narrated a hadith from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh); The freed slave of Azze from Eşcaiyye is Salman and he is from Kufe. Sehil b. Abu Hazim, who narrated from Sa'd, is a Zahid and is from Medina. name; Salama b. It is dinar. This hadith is hasan garib.
2592-) Sûfyan b. According to the narration from Abdullah es-Sakafi (radiyallahu anh), he said: “O Messenger of Allah! Tell me a job and I'll hug him tight" I said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "My Lord is Allah, then be straight." Sufyan says: “O Messenger of Allah! What is the most frightening thing for me?” said. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) said, "This is it," holding his tongue. (Muslim, Iman: 55; Ibn Majah, Fitan: 62) This hadith is hasan authentic. hadith Sufyan b. It has been narrated from Abdullah as-Sakafi in different ways.
2593-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not prolong speech without the remembrance of Allah, because prolonging speech without the remembrance of Allah causes hardening of the hearts. The furthest people from Allah are those with hard hearts.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
2594-) Abu Bakr b. Abu'n Nadr, through his father, Ibrahim b. Abdullah b. Hatib'tan, Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Dinar in terms of meaning from Ibn Umar. This hadith is garib and only Ibrahim b. We know from the narration of Abdullah, Hatib.
2595-) According to the narration from Umm Habiba (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “All the speeches of the son of Adam are against him, not for his benefit. However, enjoining the good and forbidding the evil and saying words reminding Allah are other than this.” (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 64) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith is only reported by Muhammad b. Yazid b. We know from the narration of Hunays.
2596-) According to what is reported from Abu Juhayfa (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah established a brotherhood between Salman and Abu'd Darda, Salman visited Abu'd Darda and his wife Ummu'd Darda was in a miserable condition. He saw it, Selman asked why are you like this. The woman replied, "Your brother Abu'd Darda has nothing left of the world." The woman says: When Abu'd Darda came, he prepared a meal for his guest and placed it in front of him and said, "You should eat it, I am fasting." Selman said: I will not eat unless you eat. This time he ate too. When night came, Abu'd Darda wanted to get up for prayer, but Salman told him to lie down, and he went to bed. After a while, he wanted to get up and pray again, Salman said to him, and he went to bed. When the time for the morning prayer came, Salman told him to get up now. They both got up and prayed. Then Salman said: He has the right to himself, the Lord has the right, the guest has the right, the family has the right. Give every rightful owner his due. Later, they came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and explained the situation to him. (Bukhari, Savm: 50) This hadith is authentic. The name of Abu'l Umeys was Utbe b. Abdullah. Abdurrahman b. He is the brother of Abdullah al Mas'udi.
2597-) According to a narration from a person from Medina (radiyallahu anh), he said: Write a letter to Muawiya 'Aisha (radiyallahu anha) to give me advice, but she said not to cause me much trouble. Aisha (radiyallahu anha) wrote to Muawiya: Peace be upon you. and whoever tries to please people in response to Allah's anger, Allah will refer that person to people. Peace be upon you…” (Reported by Tirmidhi.)
2598-) Muhammed b. Yahya Muhammed b. From Sûfyan es Sevrî through Yusuf, Hisham b. He told us, "Aisha wrote to Muawiya," by transmitting it to us from her father, Aisha, from Urve. He narrated this hadith without any meaning.
2599-) Adiy b. According to a narration from Hatim (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “His Lord will speak to each and every one of you on the Day of Judgment, and there will be no interpreter between them. That person will look to his right side but will see the deeds he has sent. Then he will look to his left side and see what he has done, and when he looks in front of him, he will see Hell. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued: "Whoever can protect his face from the fire, even with half a date, should do so immediately." (Musnad: 18573) The hadith is hasan sahih.
2600-) According to Abu's Saib, Vekî' one day told us this hadith from A'mesh. When the deputy had finished the hadith, he said: Whoever is here from Khorasan, may gain Allah's approval by transmitting this hadith in Khorasan. Because the sect of Cehmiyya; He denies that Allah speaks to His servants. Saib's name is Salm b. Cenade b. Selm b. Khalid b. Jabir b. Samura al Kufi.
2601-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Because of where and how he spent his life, where he wore off his youth, how he earned and spent his wealth, and whether he lived with the knowledge he learned.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. This hadith was only reported by Ibn Mas'ud, Husayn b. We know it from the narration of Kays. Husayn b. Kays, on the other hand, is known to be weak in terms of his memory in hadith. On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Abu Barza and Abu Said.
2602-) According to the narration from Abu Barza al-Aslemî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “On the Day of Judgment, a servant will not be able to move unless he is asked these questions. Where and how did he spend his life, what did he do with the information he learned? Where did he earn his wealth and where did he spend it, where did he wear his body.” (Dârimî, Mukaddime: 18) the hadith is hasan authentic. Said b. Abdullah b. Cureyc is from Basra. He is the freed slave of Abu Barza. Abu Barza's name; Nadle b. It is Ubayd.
2603-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Who is bankrupt? Do you know?" The Companions said: “O Messenger of Allah! According to us, a bankrupt is a person who has neither money nor property.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The bankrupt of my ummah is the person who will be brought back by his prayers, fasting and Zakat given on the Day of Judgment; It will be revealed in the evils that he cursed, accused of adultery, ate property unjustly, shed blood unjustly and hit him against it. and so that person will sit down to give an account of his deeds, and his good deeds will be exchanged for his evil deeds. When his good deeds are over, the exchange will continue with his sins being given to him and his rewards being given to him. As a result, he will be thrown into Hell to serve his sentence with fire. That's what bankruptcy is." (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 74) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2604-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a servant has a right to a brother in matters of wealth and honor, and if he gets halal with him in this worldly life, may Allah have mercy on that servant. Because there will be neither dinar nor dirham on the Day of Judgment. If that person has good deeds and good deeds, they will be taken and given to the wronged person. If they do not have good deeds, the reckoning will be completed by giving the sins of the wronged person to him.” (As reported by Tirmidhi.) As the hadith of Said al-Maqburi, this hadith is hasan. Malik b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Enes Said al Makburi and Abu Huraira.
2605-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “All rights will be given to their owners on the Day of Judgment. Even the hornless animal will be taken from the horned animal.” (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 79) Abu Dharr and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Unays. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
2606-) According to a narration from Miqdad (radiyallahu anh), one of the companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: will be brought closer to the distance.” Sulaym says: I don't know what the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) meant by a mile, either a mile as a measure of length or a mile drawn by the eye. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued: "The sun will almost melt them and everyone will be sweaty in proportion to their deeds. Some will stay in sweat up to the heel, some up to the kneecaps, some up to the waist, some up to the mouth.” While saying this word, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) points to his mouth and says; “Enough to smack your mouth,” he said. (Muslim, Jannah: 15) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Said and Ibn Umar.
2607-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said, "Hammad, this hadith is like merfu." The 6th verse of the chapter of Mutaffif: "On that day people will stand up before the Lord of the worlds." (Muslim, Jannah: 15; Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 68) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2608-) Hennad, Îsâ b. He conveyed to us a similar hadith from Ibn Avn, Nafi, and Ibn Umar through Yusuf.
2609-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "People will gather on the Day of Judgment on the Day of Judgment as they were first created barefoot, naked and uncircumcised." Just as we created the entire universe for the first time, we will re-create that sky again and again. This is a promise we take upon ourselves to fulfill. There is no doubt that we are capable of doing anything.” and continued as follows: Among the creatures, the first to be clothed is Abraham. Some of my Companions will be pushed left and right in order not to be brought near me, but I too, O Lord! I will say they are my Companions and it will be said to me: You do not know what innovations they have created after you, after you left them, they left their religion and returned to their old shirk. Then I will say the following words of the righteous servant Jesus: “If you punish them, they are your servants. and if you forgive them, indeed you are the mighty and the supreme. You are the one who does everything you do properly.” (Surah Maida: 118) (Bukhari, Rikak: 44; Muslim, Paradise: 19)
2610-) Muhammed b. Beşşar and Muhammed b. Müsenna, Muhammed b. From Shu'be through Cafer, Muğîre b. Numan narrated a similar hadith to us with the same deed. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2611-) Behz b. According to a narration from Hakim (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “On the Day of Judgment, you will gather on foot, on your feet and on your face, crawling to the place of Judgment.” (Musnad: 19171) A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Hurayra. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2612-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "People will be questioned three times on the Day of Judgment. The notebooks of deeds that record what they have done will be blown away, and everyone's notebook will find themselves, some will hold this notebook with their right hand, and some will take it with their left.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 33) This hadith is not authentic because Hasan did not hear it from Abu Huraira. Some narrate this hadith from Ali er Rifai and Abu Musa. This hadith is not authentic. Because Hasan did not hear from Abu Musa.
2613-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever was disputed about his account, that person was destroyed. Thereupon I said: O Messenger of Allah! Doesn't Allah say in the 7th and 8th verses of Inshikaq Surah? “Whoever's record is given to his right hand, that person's account can be easily seen from now on.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “It is the earth, not the calculation.” (Bukhari, Science: 17; Muslim, Jannat: 18) This hadith is sound hasan. Ayyub also narrated this hadith from Ibn Abi Mulayka.
2614-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “On the Day of Judgment, the son of man will be brought like a lamb and will be stood in the presence of Allah, and Allah will say to him: I gave them what did you do? That person will answer: I saved up, increased and left more than it was, return me to the world and I will bring them all to you.” He will say: If there are things that you sent before to gain my consent, show them to him, and he will say: I saved more and left more than it was. Turn me back to earth and I'll bring them all to you. Thus, this servant is seen to have done nothing in the name of good and will be taken to Hell.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) Many people reported this hadith from Hasan as the word of Anas and did not attribute it to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Ismail b. Muslim is considered weak in terms of his memory on the subject of hadith. A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira and Abu Said al-Khudri on this subject.
2615-) According to the narration from Abu Said and Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A slave will be brought before Allah on the Day of Judgment and Allah will say to him: Didn't we have a child? Did we not give animals and crops? Didn't we give you the opportunity to be authorized in certain places and earn money? You knew you were going to meet me like this today, didn't you? That person will say no, O Lord, and Allah will say: I will forget you today, just as you forgot me and today.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is authentic. The phrase "Today I will forget you..." has been interpreted as "Today I will leave you to torment". Some scholars say that "... we will forget them today" in the 51st verse of the chapter of Araf; They interpreted it as "Today we will leave them to torment".
2616-) According to the narration of Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, in the 4th verse of the chapter of Zilzal: “On that day, the earth will reveal all its news.” He read his verse, and what is the news of the earth? Do you know? He commanded. The Companions said: Allah and His Messenger know better. He said: "The news of the world is that it says, about the good work they have done on earth, about the man and woman, that a person did something like this on such a day and at such and such a place, this is the news." (Musnad: 8512) This hadith is hasan garib.
2617-) Abdullah b. Amr b. According to the narration from As (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A Bedouin came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and what is a sur? She asked; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is an instrument that makes a sound by blowing, with which the Doomsday will be announced". (Musnad: 10614) This hadith is hasan and many people have narrated it from Süleyman et Taymi. But this is how we know it.
2618-) According to what was narrated from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The person who will blow the trumpet has taken the trumpet in his hand and as soon as the order to blow comes, how can I enjoy it in this world while waiting for permission to blow it? can i live This statement must have been heavy for the Companions that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to them: "We always trust in Allah, he is the best representative, we only trust in Allah". (Abu Dâvûd, Sunnah: 17) This hadith is hasan and has been transmitted similarly from Atiyya and Abu Said in other ways.
2619-) Muğîre b. According to a narration from Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The motto of the believer on the Sirat should be peace and salvation." (Tirmidhi narrated.) Muğîre b. As a Shu'ba hadith, this hadith is garib. Only Abdurrahman b. We know from the narration of Ishaq. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Huraira on this subject.
2620-) Enes b. It was narrated from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): “I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) to intercede for me on the Day of Judgment, and he said, I will intercede. O Messenger of Allah! I said, where should I look for you? He said: First, search on the Sirat, Anas: If I cannot find you on the Sirat, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Search next to the scales called Mizan, which is the instrument on which deeds will be weighed. Enes, what if I can't find you next to the scales? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Then call me by the pool of Kevser, and I will definitely be in one of these three places." (Musnad: 12360) This hadith is hasan garib and we know it as it is.
2621-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Meat was brought to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and the front thigh was presented because he liked this part of the meat. He bit a piece of meat and said: “I will be the most honorable of people on the Day of Judgment, do you know why this will happen? Listen! Let me tell; Allah will gather all people before and after them in a big and flat area, and every word he will say will be announced to all humanity. Don't you see what's happening to you? Do you not look for someone who can intercede for you with your Lord? People will come to each other saying, "Go to Adam," and they will come to him and say: You are the father of all people, God created you with his hand, he blew from your spirit and commanded the angels to prostrate, and they prostrated to you. Intercede for us with your Lord. You see our situation, you see our situation! Adam will say to them: “My Lord is so angry today that he has never been so angry before and will not be so angry from now on. He told me not to approach a tree in Paradise, but I made a mistake and ate the fruit of that tree. I'm in my own trouble! Go to another; They will come to Noah and say: “O Noah! You are one of the first prophets sent to earth. Allah has described you as a grateful servant. Intercede for us with your Lord! You see where we are and you know what we are in!” Noah will answer them as follows: "My Lord is so angry today that he has never been so angry before, and he will not be so angry from now on. I also cursed my people and committed a crime against Allah, so my problem is enough for me, you go to someone else, go to Ibrahim! Then they come to Abraham and say: O Abraham! You are the Prophet of Allah and his only friend among the people of the earth. Intercede for us with the Lord! Do you see how we are? Abraham says: "My Lord is so enraged today that he has never been angry like this before, and he will never be angry like that in the future. I have lied in three places throughout my life. In the narration of Abu Hayyan, this is counted as three places where he lied. Then people come to Moses and say: O Moses! “You are the Messenger of Allah, Allah has given you the book and spoken to you, and has made you superior to the people. Intercede for us with the Lord! Can't you see our situation? Moses will say: “My Lord is so fiercely angry today that he has never been so angry before, and will never be so angry from now on. Even though I was not ordered to kill a man once, that crime is enough for me. Therefore, my problem is enough for me, you go to someone else, go to Jesus! Then they come to Jesus and say, "You are the Messenger of Allah and the word that he revealed to Mary and the one whom he blew from His Spirit. You are the one who spoke to the people in the cradle, intercede for us with your Lord! You see our situation! Jesus will say: “My Lord is so enraged today that he has never been so angry before, and will never be so angry from now on. Jesus did not mention a sin he committed for himself. My own problem is enough for me, you go to someone else, go to Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)! The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "They will come to Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and say: O Muhammad! You, the Messenger of Allah, are the last of the prophets. You are forgiven all past and future sins. Intercede for us with the Lord! You see our situation! I immediately move and come under the Throne and prostrate to my Lord. Then, things like that will inspire me from the praise and praise that Allah did not grant to anyone before me at that moment. Then “O Muhammad!” it will be said, “Raise your head from prostration; your request will be fulfilled. Intercede and your intercession will be accepted. I will raise my head and say, "O Lord, my nation! O Lord, my ummah! O Lord, my ummah!” I will say. God, O Mohammed! He will say, "Enter those from his ummah who have no reckoning, from the right of the gates of Paradise, these people can enter from all other gates as well. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued: "By Allah, in whose hand is my soul, the distance between the two wings of the gates of Paradise is the distance between Mecca and Hecer or Mecca and Busra." (Bukhari, Ehadisul Anbiya: 23; Muslim, Faith: 72) Abu Bakr es Siddik, Enes, Ukbe b. Hadith was also narrated from Amir and Abu Said. This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Hayyan et Taymi was Yahya b. Said b. Hayyan is from Küfe and is a reliable person. Ebû Zür'a b. Amr b. Cerir's name is Herîm.
2622-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “My intercession is for those of my Ummah who commit major sins.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 37; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 21) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. A hadith was also narrated from Jabir on the subject.
2623-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "My intercession is for those who commit a greater sin than my Ummah." b. Ali says: Jabir said to me: O Muhammad, why does a person who has not committed a major sin need intercession? (Ibn Mace, Zuhd: 37; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 21) This hadith is from Cafer b. It is strange as the narration of Muhammad.
2624-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “My Lord promised me that he would put seventy thousand people from my Ummah into Paradise without being punished or punished. He promised seventy thousand people along with that person and three times as much as his Lord would want.” (Ibn Mâce, Zuhd: 34; Dârimî, Rikak: 86) This hadith is hasan garib.
2625-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Shaqiq (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I was in Jerusalem with a group of people, and one of them said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: will enter. It was said: O Messenger of Allah! Other than your intercession? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said other than my intercession. When the person who narrated the hadith stands up, who is this? I asked him. They said, "This is Ibn eb'il Ced'a." (Ibn Mâce, Zuhd: 34; Dârimî, Rikak: 86) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Ced'a's name is Abdullah. Only he narrated this hadith.
2626-) According to the narration from Hasan-i Basrî (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Osman b. Afwan; On the Day of Judgment, he will intercede for as many people as the Rabia and Mudar tribes.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
2627-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is someone in my Ummah who can intercede for large groups. There is no one to intercede for a group of people as much as a tribe. There are also those who will intercede for a certain group. Some will intercede for a person, and those who are interceded will enter Paradise.” (Musnad: 10721) This hadith is hasan.
2628-) Awf b. According to the narration from Malik al-Ashcai (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “An angel from my Lord came to me and left me between admitting half of my ummah to Paradise and intercession, so I chose to intercede. This intercession is for those who die without associating partners with Allah.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 38) The hadith was narrated from someone other than Abu'l Melih and the Companions of the Prophet and "Avf b. It is not said "From Malik". This hadith is longer than here.
2629-) Kutaybe from Qatada through Abu Avâne, from Ebû'l Melih, from Avf b. They have transmitted a similar hadith from Malik to us.
2630-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are pitchers around my pool equal to the number of stars in the sky.” (Bukhari, Rikak: 94; Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 38) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is.
2631-) According to the narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Every Prophet has a pool on the Day of Judgment, and the Prophets boast to each other with the abundance of those who come to drink water. I; I hope that I will be the Prophet who will come to drink the most.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Eş'as b. Abdulmalik narrated this hadith through Hasan as a mursal and did not mention "Semura" in his book, which is more robust.
2632-) According to the narration from Abu Sallam al-Hubshi (radiyallahu anh), he said: Omar bin Abdulaziz had sent me news; I got on the post horse and came to him, when I entered, I said, O Commander of the Believers, it was very troublesome for me to come with the post horse. Thereupon, Umar b. Abdulaziz said: “I wouldn't want to bother you. However, the narration of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) from Sevban about the pool reached me, and I wanted to hear it from you personally.” Abu Sallam said: “Sevban narrated from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) as follows. My pool is big enough to reach Belka Amman from Aden. Its juice is whiter than milk and sweeter than honey. Their chalices are as many as the number of stars in the sky. Whoever takes a sip of it will never be thirsty again. The first people to come to the pool; They are the poor of the immigrants, whose heads and hair are messy, whose clothes are dirty, who cannot marry women who live in comfort, and whose doors and opportunities are not opened to them.” Umar b. Abdulaziz said: “But I also married women who lived in comfort, and all kinds of doors were opened to me. I am married to Fatima, the daughter of Abdulmelik. (Ibn Mace, Zuhd: 39; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 21) This hadith is garib as it is. hadith, likewise from Ma'dan b. It is also narrated from Abî Talha and Sevban. Abu Sallam Al-Habeshi's name is Memtur. He is from Damascus and is a trusted person.
2633-) According to what is reported from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “O Messenger of Allah! What are the bowls of the pool like?” said. He said: “I swear by Allah, who holds my soul in His hand; The vessels of the pool are more numerous than the small stars seen in the sky on a dark and cloudless night, and they are among the vessels of Paradise. Those who take a sip from it will never know what thirst is again. The width of the pool is the same as its length, and its size is as much as between Amman and Eyle. Its juice is whiter than milk and tastes sweeter than honey.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 39; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 21) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Huzeyfe b. al-Yeman, Abdullah b. Amr, Abu Barza al Eslemi, Ibn Omar, Harise b. Vehb, Müstevrid b. Hadith was also narrated from Shaddad. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “The size of my pool; It is the distance between Küfe and Hacer-ül Esved.”
2634-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was taken to Miraj, he had one or a few prophets with large communities, one or several prophets with a congregation, and no one with him. He passed by one or several prophets who were not present, until I came upon a great crowd and who are they? I asked. “Moses and his people!” they said. But lift your head and look! The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A crowd that completely covered the horizon from this side and this side caught my eye, and it was said that these are your ummah. and seventy thousand other people will enter Paradise without reckoning.” When he said these words, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered the room of one of his wives, and no one asked who they were. He also did not provide a translation. Then Asbab: Among themselves, they are us! they said. Some of them are; Those who were born on fitra and died as Muslims! they said. In the meantime, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came out and said: "They are people who do not get cauterized as a cure, do not steal their ears, do not believe in bad luck, and put their trust in Allah always and everywhere." Ukkaşe b. Mihsan stood up and said, “O Messenger of Allah!” he said, am I one of them? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, “Yes!” he commanded. Then someone else got up and said, "Am I one of them?" when you say; Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Ukkasha has passed you!” he commanded. (Bukhari, Medicine: 11; Muslim, Faith: 23) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith was also narrated from Ibn Mas'ud and Abu Huraira.
2635-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I cannot recognize anything that you did in the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) as servitude and worship.” Ravi says: "What about our prayers?" Enes said: "As you know, there was no sensitivity in that period in your prayers as well." (Musnad: 11539) This hadith is hasan garib as it is narrated by Abu Imran al-Jawni. It has also been narrated from Enes in different ways.
2636-) Asma bint Umays al-Has'amiyya (radiyallahu anha) said, according to the narration: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "How unfortunate is the servant who dreams and pretends to be superior and forgets Allah Almighty. How unfortunate is he who oppresses and violates rights and forgets the owner of supreme power and strength! How unfortunate is the servant who laughs and plays in negligence and forgets about the graves and rotting under the ground! How unfortunate is the servant who shows anger, forgets about birth, death and after death! How unfortunate is the servant who uses religion to the world. How unfortunate is the servant who stirs up doubts in religion! How unfortunate is the servant commanded by greed and greed! How unfortunate is the servant whose desires and desires lead him astray! What an unfortunate servant is the servant who is despised and humiliated by greed!” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange, but we know it as it is and its certificate is not sound.
2637-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a believer feeds a hungry believer, Allah will feed him with the fruits of Paradise. Again, a believer, If a thirsty believer quenches his thirst by drinking something, Allah will make him drink one of the best soft drinks, "Rahık-ı Mahtum", on the Day of Judgment. If a believer dresses a believer in need of clothes, Allah will clothe him with the green garments of Paradise.” (Abu Dawud, Zakat: 32) This hadith is strange. This hadith has been narrated from Atiyya and Abu Said al-Khudri as maqquf, and this narration is more robust and acceptable.
2638-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever fears Allah's punishment, will immediately set out to attain Paradise. Whoever sets out, gets his wish. But watch out! The goods that Allah has put forth for trade are very expensive. Be careful! Allah's merchandise is Paradise." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. We know it as the hadith of Abu Nadr.
2639-) According to a narration from Atiye es Sa'di (radiy-Allâhu anh), one of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The servant, by avoiding falling into something that may be unlawful, abandons even what is not objectionable. He cannot become one of the pious people unless he does so.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 24) This hadith is strange. We only know this way.
2640-) Hanzale al-Usaydi (radiyallahu anh) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "O my Companions, if you were to have faith as you were always with me, the angels would shade you with their wings." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 28; Muslim, Tawba: 3) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. This hadith was also narrated by Hanzala al-Usaydi in different ways. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Huraira on this subject.
2641-) According to what is reported from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “As every being has an aspect where it is severe and harsh, there is also a time for relaxation of this severity and harshness. If someone chooses the middle path and acts in a convergent way, even when he is tough, I am hopeful for him. If he gets to be pointed at, don't take his action into account because he's doing it for show." (Muslim, Fitan: 24; Ibn Mâce, Zuhd: 21) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. b. According to what was narrated from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is enough for a person to be in a position to point with his finger about religion or the world in terms of evil. However, those whom Allah protects are exempt from this.”
2642-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) drew us a quadrilateral shape, drew a line in the middle of this shape and extended this line outside the quadrangle, and by drawing different lines on that line inside this quadrangle He said: “The line in the middle is the son of man and his life. The quadrilateral surrounding this line on four sides is its death. Those little lines are the troubles and tests that will happen to that person throughout his life. If he gets rid of one, another will come and find him. The line outside the rectangle is the hopes and dreams of the person.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27; Bukhari, Rikak: 4) This hadith is authentic.
2643-) According to the narration from Enes (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Mankind gets old, but his two characteristics become younger: greed for wealth and greed for longevity." (Muslim, Zakat: 38; Dârimî, Rikak: 62) This hadith is authentic.
2644-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Shihhir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The son of Adam was represented by ninety-nine calamities and calamities surrounding him. Even if he has overcome one or all of these, old age will find him.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
2645-) Ubey b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) got up when two-thirds of the night had passed and said: "O people! Get up, think about the greatness of Allah and the opportunities He has given you and do what is necessary. The time has come for Racife (the blowing of the first horn that will bring death to all living things), and right after this will come the Radife (blowing that will bring all living things to life). Death will surely come with all kinds of violence and pain; death will surely find everyone.” Ubayy says: “O Messenger of Allah! I pray and bring you a lot of peace; How much of my prayers should I dedicate to you?” Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “As much as you wish!” he commanded. “A quarter of my prayers?” said; “As much as you want!” He said, “If you increase it, it is better for you!” he commanded. “Shall I split the half? I asked; “As much as you want!” He said, “If you increase it, it is better for you!” And I said "two-thirds?" said; “As much as you want!” He said, “If you increase it, it is better for you!” he commanded. So I said, “I will do all my prayers for you.” Thereupon, they said: "Your troubles will be relieved and your sins will be forgiven." (Musnad: 20289) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2646-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: “O Prophet of Allah!” we said, “Already; We are acting imaginary Alhamdulillah!” He said: “It is not the feeling of shame you understand! It means to shy away from Allah as required; It is to protect the head and the organs in the head, the abdomen and the organs it contains from all kinds of sins and harams, and to always remember death and decay under the ground. Whoever wants the hereafter leaves the ornaments of the world. Whoever behaves in this way will have suffered a shyness from Allah.” (Musnad: 3489) This hadith is garib. This hadith is only reported by Ebân b. Ishaq's Sabbah b. We know it from the narration of Muhammad.
2647-) Şeddâd b. According to the narration from Evs (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A truly intelligent and intelligent person is one who has control over his own evil desires and works for the afterlife. A helpless person is a person who continues his life by following all kinds of desires and desires of his soul and asks Allah for everything and Paradise.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 31) This hadith is hasan. In the hadith, "to control one's self" means a person who takes account of himself in the world and arranges his life before being held accountable on the Day of Judgment. Umar b. It is reported that Khattab said: “Before you are brought to account, take account of yourself, equip yourself for the great day of reckoning! For, on the Day of Judgment, reckoning will be easy only for those who take account of themselves while they are on earth.” b. Mihran is also reported to have said: “How does a servant eat for his partner, and where does he wear it? The pious, that is, cannot have a sense of responsibility towards Allah, unless he holds himself accountable, just as he puts his own soul to account.”
2648-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said; The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered the prayer room and saw some people smiling so that their teeth were visible, and said: "However, if you had remembered death very often, you would not be in the situation I see." So remember very much death, which destroys and cuts off all tastes. Kabir speaks every day by saying: “I am the house of solitude, I am the house for one person, I am the house of the earth, I am the house of the maggots!” When the believing servant is buried in the ground, the grave will say to him: “Hello, welcome! Since you are the most beloved of those who walk over me, you have come under my protection today and you will see what I will do to you!” Then that grave will expand as far as the eye can see for that person and a door will open towards Paradise. When a rebel and infidel servant is put in the grave, the grave will say to him: "There is no comfort and peace for you, you did not come to me in a nice condition, you came to me as the most unpleasant and angry person who walks on me and you will see what I will do to you." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued: "Then the grave compresses that person so much that his ribs cross each other." Abu Sa'id said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) showed this situation with his fingers, intertwined his fingers and said: "Then seventy snakes are instilled in that person that if one of those snakes blows into the ground, nothing will happen as long as that soil and the world remain. does not finish. These snakes sting and bite him, tear him to pieces until he is brought to account. Abu Said said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The grave is either a garden from the gardens of Paradise or a pit from the pits of Hell." (Ibn Mace, Zuhd: 31) This hadith is strange and we know it only in this way.
2649-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I entered the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and found him leaning on a dry mat. I saw the trace of the mat on its side.” (Bukhari, Mazâlim: 77; Muslim, Talak: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih, this hadith is longer than here.
2650-) Amr b. Awf (radiyallahu anh) (who is the official of Amir b. Lüey and the person who participated in the Battle of Badr together with the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)) (radiyallahu anh) reported that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), Ubayda b. . He had sent Jarrah to Bahrain, and he came from there with some goods. The Ansar heard Abu Ubayda's arrival and came to perform the morning prayer together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) finished his prayer, he stood up and the Ansar stood in front of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). When the Messenger of Allah saw this situation, he smiled and said: "You heard that Abu Ubayda came with something?" The Ansar said, "Yes, that's why we came, O Messenger of Allah!" they said. “Good news, wait for a news that will make you happy!” He said: "By Allah, I am not afraid of poverty for you, what I fear for you; The world's wealth is opened to you as it spread to those before you, and by entering the worldly race, it destroys you as the world destroyed those before you." (Bukhari, Cizye: 24; Muslim, Zuhd: 61) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2651-) Hakim b. According to the narration from Hizam (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) for worldly goods, he gave it to me, then I asked for it again, he gave it to me again; Then I asked again, he gave it again, and then he said: "O Judge! The world's goods are sweet and lush. Whoever receives this worldly life with full eyes and obtains it will be made beneficial and fruitful for him. Whoever buys it with greed will not be fruitful for himself, but will be like a person who eats and is not satisfied. The hand that gives is always better than the hand that receives.” says: “O Messenger of Allah!” I said, "I swear by Allah, who sent you with the truth, that I will not ask anything from anyone until I leave this world." Then, when Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh) became the Caliph, he would call Hakim to give a tip, but Hakim stayed away and did not accept anything. Thereupon, Umar said: “O community of Muslims! I hold you as witnesses that I offer him his share of the spoils, but he is not close to receiving it.” After the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and until his death, Hakim did not ask for anything from the people's property. (Bukhari, Rikak: 16; Muslim, Zakat: 43) This hadith is authentic.
2652-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Awf (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We went through difficult times during the time of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), we were patient. Then we got plenty of days, but we could not endure and fell into the world.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan.
2653-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever is worried about the hereafter, Allah will make his wealth in his heart, bring his two sides together, and the world will come to him in submission. Whoever's concern is the world, Allah will make his poverty between his two eyes and he will be devastated as soon as his two sides come together, anyway, what is appreciated will come to him." (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
2654-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Allah says: I will fill your heart with wealth and meet your needs, but if you do not do this, I will fill your hands with busyness and I will not cover your needs." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 28) This hadith is hasan garib. The name of Abu Khalid al-Valibi is Hormuz.
2655-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said; When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed away, we had some barley with us, and we ate from it for a while as Allah wished, then I said to the concubine, let me measure the barley. Thereupon, barley soon ran out. Aisha continued: “If we had left barley unmeasured, we would have eaten it longer than it did.” (Bukhari, Homs: 3; Muslim, Zuhd: 1) This hadith is authentic. The word "Shatr" in the hadith means "some".
2656-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “We had an embroidered and ornate curtain on the door of our house. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw this and said: "Remove it! Because it reminds me of the world.” Aisha continued her words as follows: “We had a velvet dress with silk lines in it, we used to wear it.” (Muslim, Libas: 17; Bukhari, Libas: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib in this respect.
2657-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said; "The bed of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was made of leather, and it was stuffed with date fiber." (Bukhari, Rikak: 17; Muslim, Libas: 27) the hadith is sound.
2658-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the wives of the Prophet slaughtered a sheep, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "How much of the sheep is left?" she asked. Aisha said: “Only the scapula region remained! When he said, "We distributed the rest"; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Everything except his shovel remained for us as rewards." (Musnad: 22107) This hadith is authentic. The name of Abu Meysere al-Hamadani was Amr b. It is Şurahbil.
2659-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said; “We, the wives of Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not use fire to cook for a month, our food was only water and dates.” (Bukhari, Rikak: 17; Muslim, Zuhd: 1) This hadith is authentic.
2660-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “No one has been frightened as much as I was intimidated in the way of Allah. No one was tortured in the way of Allah as much as I was tortured, and thirty days passed, day and night, during which time neither I nor Bilal had any food, only what Bilal had tucked under his arm, nothing for any living creature to eat. (Bukhari, Rikak: 17; Muslim, Zuhd: 1) This hadith is hasan garib. The meaning of the hadith is as follows: "When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) left Mecca to escape with Bilal, there was no food other than what Bilal was carrying under his arm."
2661-) Ali b. According to the narration from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I went out of the house of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a cold day and bought a tanned skin. I pierced the middle of it and put it around my neck. If there was food in the house of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), I would eat it, but there was none. Then I went out to look for something to eat. I stopped by a Jew who was drawing water from his well and watering his dates, and I looked at him through a crack in the wall, what do you want, O A'rabi! Said. Would you settle for one date for each bucket of water to drink and water your dates? Said. I said yes, too. I said open the door and let me enter, he opened the door, so I entered, he gave me his bucket. Every time I drew a bucket, he gave me a date. When my palm was full of dates, I left the bucket and I said enough, I ate them and drank the water, then I came to the mosque and saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). I found it there.” (Ibn Majah, Ahkam: 38) This hadith is hasan garib.
2662-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), “There was a time of hunger, but the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave dates one by one.” (Bukhari, Etima: 91; Ibn Mâce, Zuhd: 47) the hadith is hasan authentic.
2663-) Jabir b. It was narrated from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh); “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent us as a detachment and we were three hundred people. We used to carry our provisions in bags around our necks… Then we ran out of food, and we reached such a level that each person was given a date a day! It was then said, "O Abu Abdullah, how can a date be enough for one person?" He said that when we could not find a date, we also felt its absence. Then we came to the sea, we came across a huge fish that the sea had thrown ashore, We ate from that fish for eighteen days as much as we wanted.” (Bukhari, Company: 17; Muslim, Sayd: 27) the hadith is hasan sahih. Jabir b. It has also been narrated from Abdullah in different ways. Malik b. Enes, Vehb b. He narrated this hadith from Kaysan in a more perfect and lengthy way.
2664-) Ali b. It was narrated from Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh); says: While I was sitting in the mosque with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him), Mus'ab b. Umair came in, wearing a one-piece dress made of leather. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saw him in this state, he remembered his previous comfortable life and wept because of this awkward situation today. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "What will be your state when one of you wears a dress in the evening and a dress in the morning, when a plate of food is removed and a second plate is placed, when you cover your houses with different things like the Ka'ba?" The Companions said, "O Messenger of Allah, on that day we will be better than we are today, so we can earn our living and devote ourselves to worship." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "You are better today than you were then." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is hasan. b. Ziyâd is Ibn Maysara and he is from Madinah, from himself Malik b. Enes and many scholars have narrated. Yezîd bin Ziyâd ed Dımışkî is from Damascus and he is from Zühri, Vekî', Mervan b. Muawiya narrated hadith. Yazid b. Abî Ziyâd is from Kufa.
2665-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The people who lived next to the mosque called Ahl al-Suffa were the guests of the Muslims, they had neither property nor children. I swear by Allah, there is no other god, I used to lie on my stomach from the effect of hunger and put my liver on the ground and again from the effect of hunger, I would tie a stone to my stomach. One day, I sat on the road they were on, Abu Bakr passed by, I asked him for a verse from the book of Allah, my purpose was to feed me. He passed and did not do my request, then Ebul Qasim Muhammad (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) passed. When he saw me, he smiled and said, "O Abu Huraira." “O Messenger of Allah! I am ready for your command, O Messenger of Allah!” said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "Follow me!" He commanded and passed. I followed him and he entered his house. So I asked permission to enter, it was granted and I entered. He saw a bowl of milk at home and asked: Where did this milk come from for you? saying. “Someone brought it to us as a gift!” they said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "O Abu Huraira!" And I said, “I am ready for your command, O Messenger of Allah!” said. “Go to the Suffians and invite them here, they are the guests of the Muslims. They have neither property nor children!” said. When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) received Zakat, he would not eat anything from it and would send it to the people of Suffa. When a gift came, he would send a message to them, and he would eat this gift and share them with it. I did not like the task of summoning the Suffeans. When I was going to call the people of Suffa as the messenger of the Prophet, I said to myself: A bowl of milk is not enough for the people of Suffa, besides the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and I are among those to be served, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked me to pass that bowl of milk to them. He will command that what can befall my share from this? I would like to drink from it enough to satisfy my hunger, but there is no other choice but to obey Allah and His Messenger.. I came to the people of Suffa and called them. They entered the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and everyone took their places. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "O Abu Huraira!" “Take the milk bowl and offer it to them,” he said. I used to take the bowl and give it to everyone one by one, everyone drank it to the fullest, then gave it to me and gave it to someone else. Finally, I arrived at the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the whole congregation drank until they were satisfied. He raised his head and smiled and said, “Drink Abu Hurayra!” he commanded. I drank. Then again “Drink!” he commanded. I keep drinking, He says “Drink!” he was commanding. Finally, I said: “By Allah, who sent you with the truth, I will not drink anymore…” Finally, he took the bowl in his hand, praised Allah, uttered basmala and drank the milk. (Bukhari, Etima: 56) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2666-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: A man belched in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) because he ate too much. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Stop burping." “For those who are very satiated in the world will starve for a long time on the Day of Judgment.” (Ibn Majah, Etime: 50) This hadith is strange in its form. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Juhayfa on this subject.
2667-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “If you had seen us when we were under the rain when we were together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), you would have thought our smell was the smell of sheep.” (Abu Dâvûd, Libas: 17; İbn Mâce, Libas: 27) This hadith is authentic. The meaning of this hadith is as follows: Their clothes were made of wool, so when it rained, they smelled like the smell of sheep.
2668-) According to the narration from Abu Hamza and Ibrahim Nahai (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), they said: “Building and construction is a job that gives full responsibility.” How about making the necessary person's seat? Said. "There is no sin, no merit," he said. (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
2669-) Muâz b. According to the narration from Anas al-Juheni (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever abandons wearing expensive and precious clothes while being humble for the sake of Allah, Allah will call him in front of everyone on the Day of Judgment and choose which of the garments of belief he can afford. He will free her to wear if he wills.” (Musnad: 15078) This hadith is hasan. means “clothes”; It means the clothes that will be given to the people of faith in Paradise.
2670-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “All expenditures are counted in the way of Allah, that is, it brings rewards to a person. There is no good only in spending on building and construction.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 13) This hadith is strange.
2671-) Harise b. According to what is reported from Mudarrib (radiyallahu anh), he said: “We came to visit Habbab because of his illness, and he was treated seven times by cauterization. He told us: My illness has prolonged, do not wish for death from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)! If I had not heard what he said, I would certainly wish for death.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person earns rewards for all kinds of expenditures, but there is no reward for investments made in land and buildings." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 13) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2672-) According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A beggar came and asked Ibn Abbas for something. Ibn Abbas said to the beggar: "Do you accept that there is no god but Allah?" The beggar said “yes”. Ibn Abbas asked, “Do you testify that Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) is the Messenger of Allah?” said. The beggar said “yes”. Ibn Abbas, "Do you fast in Ramadan?" said. The beggar said “yes”. Thereupon, Ibn Abbas continued: “You asked and anyone who asks has a right. For this reason, he said that we need to give you something, gave him a dress and said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: "If a Muslim makes a Muslim wear a dress, that is, until there is no piece of that clothing left. As long as he is a Muslim, he is under the protection of Allah.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
2673-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Salam (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) arrived in Medina, people rushed towards him. It was said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came. I joined the crowd to see him. The moment I saw his face, I knew he was not a liar. The first words he spoke were: “O People! You have spread the greeting among you, so give them food. Pray while people are asleep so that you can enter Paradise in peace.” (Ibn Majah, Etimah: 1; Dârimî, Salat: 156) This hadith is authentic.
2674-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “One who eats and gives thanks to Allah is like one who is patient with hunger by fasting for rewards.” (Ibn Majah, Siamese: 53) This hadith is hasan garib.
2675-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to Medina, the immigrants came to him and said; “O Messenger of Allah!” they said; “We have never seen a society that distributes as much as these Ansar brothers, among whom we are guests, and distributes the few in the best way possible. They relieved our troubles and shared their happiness with us. We were afraid that they would take away all the good deeds.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "No, it is not like that... As long as you pray for them and know these good deeds they have done, you will have done your duty towards them." (Musnad: 12602) This hadith is sound hasan garib as it is.
2676-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Shall I inform you of a person whose fire is forbidden to Hellfire and Hellfire is forbidden to him? Everyone is a friendly, gentle, facilitating person.” (Musnad: 3742) This hadith is hasan garib.
2677-) Aswad b. According to the narration from Yazid (radiyallahu anh), he said: "O Aisha!" I said, "What would the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) do when he entered his house?" Aisha answered as follows: "She would help her family with the housework, and when the prayer time came, she would get up and pray." (Bukhari, Adhan: 35) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2678-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) met a person, he would shake hands with him, and that person would not take his hand away from him without letting go of his hand. It has never been seen that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) put his feet in front of a person he was sitting with." (Ibn Majah, Adab: 15) This hadith is strange.
2679-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A man from the communities before you came out dressed in his precious clothes, but Allah commanded the earth and the earth took him inside, that man would sink or sink until the Day of Judgment. ” (Musnad: 6777) This hadith is authentic.
2680-) Amr b. According to the narration from the grandfather of Shuayb (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Those who are arrogant and arrogant in the world will be brought to the place of judgment on the Day of Judgment like particles in human form, and humiliation will cover them from every direction. They will be exiled to a prison called "Bulus" in Hell, and the fire of the fires will rise above them. The blood, pus and residues of the people of Hell will be given to them to drink.” (Musnad: 6390) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2681-) Musa b. According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Whoever holds his anger even if he can and does not harm anyone, Allah will call that person in front of everyone on the Day of Judgment and release him to take the houri he wishes." (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 27; İbn Mâce, Zuhd: 17) This hadith is hasan garib.
2682-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever has these three qualities, Allah will increase his protection for that person and put him in Paradise. To be gentle with the weak, to be kind to parents, and to treat those who are under his power…” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Abu Bakr b. It is possible; Muhammed b. He is the brother of Munkedir.
2683-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah says: “O My servants! You are all astray, but seek guidance from me, except for those whom I have guided, so that I may guide you. You are all poor, except those whom I have made rich; Ask me, I will provide you. You are all sinners, except those I forgive; Whoever among you knows that I have the power to forgive and asks forgiveness from me, I forgive him regardless of the number and size of his sins. If your previous ones, your next ones, your dead and your living ones, your wet and dry ones, were like the most pious of my servants, nothing will increase like the wing of a mosquito in my reign. Even if your before and after, your dead and your living, your wet and dry, were like the worst and most unfortunate of my servants, nothing less than a mosquito's wing would be less than a mosquito's wing from my reign. If your before and after, your dead and your living, your wet and dry, were gathered in a big square and everyone wanted whatever they could imagine, I would give them all, and this would not detract anything from my property; however, when a person plunges a needle into the sea and takes it out, the more water is lost, the less it is. Because I was generous, I am wealthy, I am strong, I can do what I want, my forgiveness is based on a promise. My torment is also dependent on a word. When I want something to happen, I just say be, and it just happens.” (Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 17; İbn Mâce, Zuhd: 27) hadith is hasan. Some of them also reported this hadith as Shahr b. They narrated similarly from Havsheb, Ma'dikerb and Abu Dharr.
2684-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said; I heard a hadith from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that I heard it more than once, two, three, five, seven, and seven, and if I had not heard it so much, I could not have conveyed it to you. I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: There was a man named who did not hesitate to sin. A woman came to him and gave sixty dinars for sexual intercourse. As a husband prepares for his wife, when Kifl prepared that woman, she began to tremble and cry. Kifl: “Why are you crying, did I force you to do this?” said. Woman: “No!” He said, “But this is a job that I have never done and it is just a need that compels me to do it. Then Kifl said: “You are trembling and you have not done this job before, so go and have that sixty dinars yours.” Kifl said: “No! No!" By Allah, I will never rebel against Allah again.” Kifl died that night. In the morning, on Kifl's door, “God has forgiven Kifl!” It was written.” (Musnad: 4517) This hadith is hasen, Shayban and many others have narrated this hadith from A'mesh as merfu. Others narrated from A'mesh without merfu. Abu Bakr b. The drunkard narrates this hadith from al-A'mesh and mistakenly stated, “Abdullah b. Abdullah, Said bin Jubayr and Ibn Amr," this narration is not acceptable. b. Abdullah er Razi; He is from Kufe and his grandmother, Ali b. She was the concubine of Abi Talib who allocated her a room, Abdullah b. Abdullah er Razi, Ubeyde Ed Dabbi, Haccac b. Ertae and many scholars narrated hadith.
2685-) Abdullah b. Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated two hadiths, one from him and the other from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Abdullah said: “A believer sees his sins as big as a mountain that will fall on him. The sinful person sees his sins as a fly that lands on his nose and will run away when he chases.” Abu Muawiya narrated this hadith from A'mesh, Umara b. Umair and Harîs b. He narrated from Suwayd. (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Tawba: 17)
2686-) According to the narration from Fatar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah is so happy at the repentance of one of you; As in the following example: When one of you who has food and drink on a desolate desert and everything on the back of a camel, then losing his camel and looking for it, finally faces death, "Let me return to the place where I lost the camel and die there!" Whoever says, returns to his former place and falls asleep, wakes up and makes Allah more happy than the person who finds his camel and all his belongings next to him. (Bukhari, Deavat: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih. Abu Huraira, Numan b. Beşîr, Enes b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik.
2687-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “All the sons of Adam are in error, and the best of the wrongdoers are those who repent.” (Ibn Mâce, Zuhd: 17; Dârimî, Rikak: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Ali b. We know it from the narration of Mes'ade from Qatada.
2688-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should honor his guest. A person who believes in Allah and the Last Day should speak good or remain silent.” (Bukhari, Adab: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) the hadith is authentic. Hadith was also narrated from Aisha and Enes. The name of Şureyh el Adevi el Ka'bî el Huzaî is Huveylid b. It is Amr.
2689-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever protects his tongue from unnecessary and sinful words, he will be saved from all kinds of troubles and sins." (Dârimî, Rikak: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. We know this hadith only from the narration of Ibn Lehia from Abu Abdurrahman. Abu Abdurrahman al Hubli; Abdullah b. Yazid.
2690-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: I talked to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) about a person by imitating him, and he said: “Even if I have so much or so much, I like to imitate someone. does not please me.” Aisha says: "O Messenger of Allah!" said. “Safiyya is a tiny woman,” I said, and pointed to her shortness with my hand. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "You made such a promise that if that word got into the sea, the water of the sea would change." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27)
2691-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I do not like to imitate anyone, even if many things are given for me.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Huzayfa; He is from Kufa and one of Ibn Mas'ud's friends. On behalf of Salama b. It is called Shuheyba.
2692-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked which Muslim is more valuable. (Nasai, Faith: 8) As the narration of Abu Musa, this hadith is authentic.
2693-) Muâz b. According to a narration from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever blames his Muslim brother for a crime he has committed, he will not die before committing that crime.” (Tirmidhi narrated) said, "If he blames himself for a sin he has repented of." Because Khalid b. Ma'dan, Muâz b. He did not catch up with Cebel and see him. Khalid b. It is narrated that Ma'dan caught up with seventy of the Companions of the Prophet and met with them. He died during the caliphate of Cebel Omar. Khalid b. Many other hadiths of this hadith have been reported from Ma'dan, from Muadh's friends, and from Muadh.
2694-) Vasile b. According to a narration from Aska (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not be happy about something that happened to your brother and do not laugh at something, then Allah will forgive him and have mercy on him, and he will test you with that thing.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Vasile b. Eska, Enes b. He heard hadiths from Malik and Abu Hind ad-Dari. He heard hadiths from only three of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Makhûl was from Damascus and was given the name Abu Abdullah. He was a slave and was later freed. al Ezdi is from Basra. Abdullah b. Heard a hadith from Umar. From Imara b. Zazan narrates hadith.
2695-) Ali b. Hucr, İsmail b. Through Ayyaş, Temim b. He quoted Atiyye as follows: “Often times I heard Mekhûl say Nedanem (I don't know) when asked a question.”
2696-) Yahya b. According to what is reported from Wassab, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The person who mingles with the Muslims and puts up with their oppression is better than the one who does not mix with the people and endures the persecution." (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 23) Ibn Abi Ady says: Shu'ba is of the opinion that the old person who narrated the hadith was Ibn Umar.
2697-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Because this feature destroys religion.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is authentic in its form: "To have a bad relationship with you" means that Muslims are hostile to each other and harbor grudges. The meaning of the word “halika” is that it shaves off religion.
2698-) According to the narration from Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Shall I inform you of something more valuable than fasting, prayer and giving alms? The Companions said “yes”; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Muslims are on good terms with each other because quarrels destroy the religion." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 50) This hadith is authentic. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was also narrated as follows: "I say it destroys and ends, I do not say that it shaves the hair, but I say that shaving the religion ends."
2699-) Zubayr b. According to the narration from Avvam (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “You have also been infected with the disease of the past societies, and holding grudges and grudges is an extermination. I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my soul, that you cannot enter Paradise without believing, and you cannot be a believer without loving each other. Shall I tell you what will make love between you two come true? Spread the greetings among you.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) There is disagreement in the narration of this hadith. Some of them were Yahya b. Ebî Katîr, some say Yahya b. from ebî Kesîr, Yaîş b. They say from Walid and Zubayr's freed slave, and they do not say "from Zubayr".
2700-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are two sins that Allah will hastily punish in this world, along with the torment that He has set aside in the Hereafter: "Running and cutting off relations with relatives." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 43) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2701-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Whoever has these two traits, Allah will write him down as a grateful and patient servant, and whoever does not have these two traits, Allah will write him down. He does not write anyone as grateful and patient. Whoever looks at those who are superior to him in religion and tries to be like them, and looks at those who are inferior to him in worldly affairs and praises the blessing Allah has given him, Allah writes this person as grateful and patient, whoever looks at someone who is lower than him in religion, does not see himself better than him and does not increase his servitude to the world. If he looks at those who are superior to him in terms of things, and gets upset about the things that escape his hand, Allah will write that person as neither grateful nor patient.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
2702-) The righteous man Musa b. Hizam, Ali b. Through Ishaq, Abdullah b. Mubarak, Müsennab Sabah, Amr b. Shuayb narrated a similar hadith from his father and grandfather. This hadith is hasan garib. Suveyd b. Nasr does not say "from his father" in his narration.
2703-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Look at those who are inferior to you in worldly health and well-being, and do not look at those who are superior! Because this is the right behavior for you so that you do not belittle the blessing that Allah has given you.” (Muslim, Zuhd: 17; Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 9) the hadith is authentic.
2704-) Hanzale al-Useydi (radiy-Allâhu anh) is one of the revelation scribes of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Hanzale stopped by Abu Bakr one day crying. Abu Bakr said, "What's wrong, Hanzale?" she asked. Hanzale said, “O Abu Bakr!” He said, “Hanzale has become a hypocrite. That is, as long as we are with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), when he reminds us of Paradise and Hell, we seem to be seeing it with our own eyes. But when we leave him and go to our children and work, we forget most of it.” Abu Bakr said, "By Allah, we are in the same situation, let's go together to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). and we went together. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saw her, he said, "Hanzale, what's wrong with you?" she asked. Hanzala: “O Messenger of Allah! Hanzale became a hypocrite, he said, "When we are with you, when we remind you of Heaven and Hell, we seem to see it with our own eyes. But when we leave your side and come to our wives and our affairs, we forget many things. Abu Bakr said: Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If you were in the position where you always stood by me, the angels would shake hands with you on the roads and on your beds where you sit. But O Hanzale, sometimes like this, sometimes like that, it's not always the same." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 28; Muslim, Tawba: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2705-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “None of you can be a true believer unless he loves for himself what he loves for himself.” (Muslim, Faith: 17; Nasai, Faith: 19) the hadith is authentic.
2706-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: One day I was behind the mount of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). He said: “O young man! I will teach you a few words: “Live by paying attention to Allah's orders and prohibitions so that Allah will watch over you. Never forget Allah so that you will always find him in front of you. When you ask for it, ask for help from Allah, when you ask for help, ask for help from Allah. If all people come together to harm you, they can only harm you as much as Allah has written for you. The pens of fate have been lifted and the pages written have dried up.” (Musnad: 2527) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2707-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he says: A man said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) O Messenger of Allah! The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked if I should put my trust in Allah by tying my camel or letting it go. (Tirmidhi narrated it.) b. Ali relates that Yahya said that this hadith is munkar in my opinion. As the narration of Anas, this hadith is strange. But this is how we know it. Amr b. A similar hadith was narrated from Umayya ed Damri.
2708-) According to the narration from Abu'l Havra es Sa'di (radiyallahu anh), he said: Hasan b. I asked Ali if there was something you memorized from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and he said, I memorized the following from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "Look at what is doubtful, because truth is peace of mind, and lying consists of doubt. . The hadith (Nesai, Eşribe: 17; Dârimî, Magic: 27) is a bit long. Abu'l Havra es Sa'di's name was Rabia b. He is Shayban. This hadith is authentic. Bundar, Muhammed b. He conveyed to us a similar hadith from Shu'ba and Burayd through Cafer al-Mahrami.
2709-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: One man was remembered for his worship and zeal in the presence of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and another for his observance of Allah’s rights, and the Prophet (pbuh) said: : “Nothing can be equivalent to observing God's law.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.) b. Cafer, Misver b. He is the son of Mahreme and is from Medina. He is a trusted person with hadith scholars. This hadith is hasan garib and we only know it in this way.
2710-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever eats halal morsels and lives according to the Islamic system and people are safe from his evil deeds, that person will enter Paradise. A man said: O Messenger of Allah! Today, people with this characteristic are many among the people. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), there will be people with this characteristic in the centuries after me.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is garib and we know it only as Israel's hadith.
2711-) Abbas ed Dûrî, Yahya b. He conveyed a similar hadith from Israel to us through Abi Bukayr in the same deed. b. I asked Ismail about this hadith, he only knew it as Israel's hadith, and he did not know the name of Abu Bishr.
2712-) Sahl b. Muaz b. According to the narration from Anas al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh) and his father, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever gives for Allah's sake and puts up obstacles for Allah, loves for Allah's sake and hates for Allah's sake, and marries and marries for Allah's sake, that person's faith has reached maturity.” (Musnad: 15064) This hadith is hasan.
2713-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The first people who will enter Paradise will enter like the brightness of the moon in the shape of a bedir. For each person, two wives will be given, and each lady will have seventy layers of clothes, and the marrow of her shanks will be seen under so many clothes.” (Musnad: 10702) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2714-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There are such trees in Paradise that a person with a horse will walk for a hundred years under its shade.” (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 8; Muslim, Jannat: 1) hadiths were also narrated from Anas and Abu Said al-Khudri. This hadith is authentic.
2715-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is such a tree in Paradise that a tall person cannot walk for a hundred years under its shadow. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued: "This is what shadows stretch out...". (Surat al-Waqia: 30) (Muslim, Jannah: 1) This hadith is hasan garib, as narrated by Abu Said.
2716-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is no tree in Paradise whose trunk is not made of gold.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This is hasan garib as the hadith of Abu Huraira.
2717-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: O Messenger of Allah! we said. What is wrong with us that our hearts soften when we are with you, we do not want the world, we try to be from the people of the hereafter. But when we leave your side and mingle with our families and smell our children, we find ourselves changed. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If you were always the way you left me, angels would visit you in your homes, and if you had never sinned, Allah would have created a society that sinned and would forgive them." Hurayra says: O Messenger of Allah! Why were creatures created? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Sudan". I asked why the building of heaven was built, “One adobe gold, one adobe silver, its mortar is made of musk with a strong smell, its pebbles are pearls and rubies, and those who enter it with victory, will find prosperity in blessings and will not suffer. They will be eternal, their wear will not wear out, their youth will not disappear.” Then he continued as follows: “There are three people whose prayers are not turned down: the just state administrator, the fasting and the oppressed who are about to break their fast… Allah raises the prayer of the oppressed person above the clouds and opens the gates of the heavens to him. The great and mighty Lord said: “Even after a while, I will surely help you for my glory.” (Muslim, Tawba: 27; Dârimî, Rikak: 17) The proof of this hadith is not very solid. I think this hadith is not absolute. This hadith was also narrated from Abu Mudle and Abu Huraira with another isnad.
2718-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There are such mansions in Paradise; A Bedouin, whose inside and outside can be seen from the outside, stood up and said: Who are those mansions for? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said: "Those mansions; It is for those who speak well, eat, fast and pray at night while people are asleep.” (Musnad: 1268) This hadith is garib. Some hadith scholars Abdurrahman b. They criticized Ishaq in terms of his memory, he is from Kufa. Abdurrahman b. Ishaq al Qureshi, on the other hand, is from Medina and is stronger than his counterpart.
2719-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Qays (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are two more Paradises in Paradise, whose vessels and everything are made of silver, and another two Paradises in which their vessels and all kinds of belongings are under them. . In Paradise of Eden, there is a veil of greatness that prevents them from seeing between the people of Paradise and their Lord.”
2720-) In the same deed, it was narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "There is a tent made of hollow pearls, sixty miles in size, on each side of which there are houris and they do not see each other. goes around them one by one.” (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 8; Muslim, Cennet: 9) This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Imran al Cevnî, Abdülmelik b. Habib. Abu Bakr b. As for Musa, Ahmad b. Hanbel, "his name is unknown!" says. The name of Abu Musa al-Ash'ari is Abdullah bin Kays. Abu Malik al-Ash'ari's name is Sa'd b. Tariq b. It is my item.
2721-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are a hundred degrees in Paradise, the distance between both degrees is a hundred years.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
2722-) Muâz b. According to a narration from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Who fasts in Ramadan, performs prayers, makes pilgrimage to the Ka'ba - I don't remember whether he said the zakat or not - even if he stays in the country of his birth, in the way of Allah. Even if he emigrated, Allah will surely forgive him.” Muaz: "Shall I convey this to the Muslims?" said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Leave the people! Let them race and work in worship, for there are one hundred degrees in Paradise. The distance between each degree is the same as the distance between heaven and earth. The most beautiful and high-grade of the heavens is the Firdevs Paradise; The Throne of Rahman is above it. All the rivers of the heavens spring from here. When you want Paradise from Allah, ask for Firdevs Paradise.” (Musnad: 21073) This hadith is similar to Hisham b. Sa'd, Zayd b. Eslem from Atâ b. From Yesâr, Ubade b. It is also reported from Samit. Muaz b. He is a person who cannot reach Cebel. Muaz's death was before and he died during the caliphate of Omar.
2723-) Ubade b. According to the narration from Samit (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “There are one hundred degrees in Paradise; The distance between the two degrees is the same as the distance between the sky and the earth. Firdevs is the highest in degree and the four rivers of Paradise spring from here. The Arsh is above it. When you ask for Paradise from Allah, ask for Ferdowsi.” (Musnad: 21627)
2724-) Ahmed b. Menî' Yazîd b. From Hemmam and Zayd b. He narrated a similar one from Eslem.
2725-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are a hundred degrees in Paradise. If all the realms were gathered in one of those degrees, it would include them all.” (Musnad: 10806) = Everyone and everything except Allah. This hadith is garib.
2726-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "They are like rubies and corals" (Sura Rahman verse 58). Ruby is such a stone that if you stretch a rope behind it because of its transparency, you will see that same rope.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
2727-) Hennad; Ubeyde b. Humayd from Atâ b. From Sâib, Amr b. Maymun and Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Mas'ud.
2728-) Abdullah b. This hadith has been transmitted from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh) without any analogues in meaning. This narration is Ubayda b. It is more authentic than Humayd's narration.
2729-) Likewise, Jarir and many people related this hadith to Ata b. They transferred it from Sâib without merfu.
2730-) Kutaybe, through Cerir Atâ b. They narrated it from Saib, similar to the narration of Abu'l Ahvas, from Ata's companions without merfu. And this narration is more authentic.
2731-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The first group of people who will enter Paradise on the Day of Judgment will have their faces like the brightness of the moon on the night of the full moon, and the second group will be like the brightest star in the sky. Every man among them will have two wives, and every woman will have a dress on her, and even behind these dresses, the marrows of those women will be seen.” (Musnad: 10702) This hadith is hasan.
2732-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A Muslim who enters Paradise will be given the power to have such and such sexual intercourse.” Thereupon he said: “O Messenger of Allah! Will he be able to afford it?” it was said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "He will be given the strength of a hundred men." (Tirmidhi narrated.) Zayd b. A hadith was also narrated from Arkam. This hadith is authentic. We know that the hadith is Qatada's narration from Anas only through the narration of Imran al-Kattan.
2733-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The shape and appearance of the first group that will enter Paradise is like the image of the moon on the night of the full moon. There is no spitting, no blowing, no need to go to the toilet. The pots used are made of gold, combs are made of gold and silver censers are of oud. Their sweat is like musk. Each of them has two wives, because of their beauty, the marrow of their calves can be seen from under their flesh. There is no disagreement between them, no grudges against each other, their hearts are like a single heart. They glorify Allah morning and evening.” (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 8; Muslim, Paradise: 7) The hadith is sound. “Eluvve” means gall tree.
2734-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Abu Wakkas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If only a small amount of blessings in Paradise were shown to the world as a fingernail can carry, the heavens and the earth would be adorned with all its parts. If a person in Heaven looked at the world and one of his bracelets appeared to the world, he would swept away the light of the sun as the sun swept away the light of the stars.” (Musnad: 1371) This hadith is strange and we know it only as the narration of Ibn Lehia. b. Ayyub reported this hadith from Yazid b. Ebî Habib, in his deed, “Ömer b. Sa'd b. Abi Wakkas and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)”.
2735-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Their youth is inexhaustible, their clothes never wear out.” (Dârimî, Rikak: 17) This hadith is hasan garib.
2736-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) “raised floors.” (Surat al-Waqia: 34) He said about the verse: The height of those mattresses is like the distance between the sky and the earth, that is, it is about five hundred years' journey.” (Musnad: 11294) This hadith is garib. This hadith was only reported by Rishdin b. We know from the narration of Sa'd, some scholars said in the interpretation of this hadith: The meaning of this is mattresses in degrees. The distance between the degrees is the same as the distance between the earth and the sky.
2737-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr's daughter Esma (radiyallahu anha), she said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): "Sidret-ul Munteha=the last tree" and said: A person is shaded by a hundred thousand under the shade of a branch of Sidrüt-ül Müteha - the doubtful narrator is Yahya - There are golden butterflies in Sidret-ül Münteha and the fruits of that tree are like jugs in size.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is hasan garib.
2738-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about Kevser and he said: “It is a river that Allah will give me in Paradise, its water is whiter than milk and sweeter than honey. There are some birds in that river whose necks are like the neck of a camel.” Ömer said: These are well-bred and well-kept camels. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Eating it is more pleasant than its appearance." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Muhammed b. Abdullah b. Muslim is the son of Ibn Shihab ez Zuhri's brother. Abdullah b. Muslim, Ibn Umar and Anas b. Malik narrated hadith.
2739-) Süleyman b. According to a narration from Yazid's father, a man said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): "O Messenger of Allah! Are there horses in heaven? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: If Allah puts you in Paradise, you can get on a red ruby horse as you wish and fly wherever you want. Another man asked: O Messenger of Allah! Are there camels in Paradise? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) did not tell this man the way he told his friend, and said: "If Allah puts you in Paradise, everything that you crave and that pleases your eyes will be yours." (Musnad: 21904)
2740-) Suveyd b. Nasr, Abdullah b. Mubarak from Sufyan, Alkame b. From Mersed, Abdurrahman b. He has conveyed a similar meaning to this hadith from Thabit, and this narration is more robust than Mas'udi's.
2741-) According to the narration from Abu Ayyub (radiy-Allâhu anh), a Bedouin came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and O Messenger of Allah! I love horses. Are there horses in heaven? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If you enter Paradise, a horse with two wings made of ruby will be brought to you, you will get on that horse and you will fly with it wherever you want." (Tirmidhi narrated.) The proof of this hadith is not very solid. As Abu Ayyub's narration, we know it only in this way. Abu Sevre is the son of Abu Ayyub's brother, it is said in the hadith that he is weak. Yahya b. Main sees him as very weak. Muhammed b. I heard from Ishmael and he said: Abu Swra's narration is munkar and is not welcomed, but Abu Ayyub narrates munkar hadiths, so his narrations are not welcomed and followed.
2742-) Muâz b. According to a narration from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The people of Paradise will enter Paradise at the age of thirty or thirty-three, without hair and with a scoop. (Musnad: 21016) This hadith is hasan garib. Some of Qatada's men narrate this hadith as mursal and do not mention the entire document.
2743-) It was narrated from Burayda (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Heavens will be one hundred and twenty pure. Eighty ranks of them will be from this ummah and forty rows will be from other ummahs.” (Ibn Mâce, Zuhd: 17; Dârimî, Rikak: 27) This hadith is hasan. This hadith is related to Alkame b. From Mesed, Süleyman b. It was narrated from Burayde as a mursal, and in some narrations, “Suleyman b. They say from Bureyde and his father. Abu Sinan's Muharib b. His narration from Disar is hasan. Abu Sinan's name was Dirar b. It is Murre. The name of Abu Sinan al-Shaybani is Said b. It is Sinan. The name of Abu Sinan al-Shami is Îsa b. It is Sinan. The name of Abu Sinan al-Shami is Îsa b. He is Sinan and Kasmeli.
2744-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We were together with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with about forty people under a dome. The people there said "Yes". The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "Are you willing to be one-third of the heavens? He commanded. The people there said “yes” again. This time the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Are you willing to be half of the heavens? Only a Muslim will enter Paradise. Most of humanity will fall into shirk. You who are not contaminated by shirk will be like the white hairs on the black ox or like the black hair on the skin of the red ox.” (Bukhari, Rikak: 17; Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is hasan. on the subject of Imran b. They also narrated hadiths from Husayn and Abu Husayn and Abu Said al-Khudri.
2745-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Omar (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "There is a door from the gates of Paradise through which my ummah will enter; The width of that gate is the distance a master rider can travel in three days (or three months or three years). Even so, they will get stuck in this door, and their shoulders will almost fall off.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. I asked about this hadith and he said that he did not recognize such a hadith. Khalid b. ebî Bekr'in, Sâlim b. There are narrations from Abdullah that are repugnant.
2746-) Said b. According to the narration from Musayyeb (radiyallahu anh), he met Abu Hurayra and said, "I ask Allah to bring us together in the bazaar of Paradise." Said: “Is there a market in Paradise?” she asked. Abu Huraira said "yes" and continued as follows. According to what the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) informed me; “When the people of Paradise enter Paradise, they will settle there according to their deeds. Then a time off from the world days until Friday will be allowed and people will visit their Lord. The Throne of Allah will appear to them, Allah will appear to them in a garden from the Gardens of Eden, pulpits of light, pulpits of gold, pulpits of silver will be established for those who believe, and the lowest of those people in terms of rank - they are not inferior - will sit on the hills of musk and camphor, and they will sit on the hills of musk and camphor They will not think that there are people sitting on high.” Hurayra said: “O Messenger of Allah! Will we not see God that day? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied, "Yes." “Do you doubt the appearance of the Sun and the moon on the night of the full moon, or scramble to see it?” We said: “No!” we replied. Then you will see your Lord with ease, and there will be no one left in Paradise with whom Allah does not meet with each other. He even said to one of the people he spoke to: “O son of so-and-so! Do you remember what you did on a day or so?” He will say, and will remind you of some of his disloyalty in the world. That person said: “O my Lord! Didn't you forgive me?" In Allah: “Yes!” He will say, "You have reached this station, thanks to the breadth of my forgiveness." While they are in this state, a cloud will cover them from above and rain down an odor on them that they have never smelled like it before. Almighty God will continue as follows: “Get up and get everything you desire from the great treats I have prepared for you!” We will come to a bazaar surrounded by angels, where eyes cannot see, ears do not hear, and there are things that no one can imagine through their heart, where everything desired will be found. There is no such thing as selling and buying there. Heavens will meet each other in that bazaar. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) continued his words as follows: "When a person with high rank meets a person with a lower rank than him, his eyes will be dazzled by the clothes he wears, and he will imagine that the clothes on his back are better than him before they finish talking. Because there is no sorrow for anyone in Paradise. Then everyone will disperse to their mansions and our ladies will greet us as hello and welcome; They will say that you returned to us in a better condition than when you left us. We will say to our wives: “Today, we were at the meeting of our Lord, who is infinitely powerful and mighty, we should have returned like this, and so we came back to you.” (Bukhari, Adhan: 17; Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is strange and we only know it this way. b. Amr narrated a part of this hadith from Awzai.
2747-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is a market in Paradise where there is no such thing as buying or selling, there are pictures and shapes of men and women. If he wants to take shape, he will take that shape there.” (Musnad: 1272) This hadith is garib.
2748-) Cerir b. According to the narration from Abdullah al-Bajali (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were sitting in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) looked at the moon as a full moon and said: You will be in the presence of your Lord and you will see this moon as you see it. you will see it and you will not encounter any difficulty or trouble in seeing it. Therefore, he said to continue the prayer before sunrise and the prayer before sunset as long as you can and recited the following verse: “…Before the sunrise and sunset, remember the unlimited power and majesty of your Lord with all his complete praise…” (Surah Taha: 130) (Bukhari, Mevakıt: 17; Muslim, Masajid: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2749-) According to the narration from Suheyb (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said; “There is good and more for those who are persistent and determined to do good and beneficial works.” (Yunus Surah: 26) He said about the verse: When the people of Paradise enter Paradise, a bellboy will shout: "Allah has a promise for you. Didn't he save us from the fire? Didn't he put us in Heaven? The angels will answer yes, after which the curtain will open. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) continued as follows: I swear by Allah that on that day, Allah did not give the people of Paradise anything more beloved than seeing himself. (Muslim, Faith: 27; Ibn Mâce, Mukadime: 17) This hadith is only Hammad b. Salama narrates it as musnad and merfu. Suleiman b. Mughîre transmitted this hadith through Sabit al Bunani to Abdurrahman b. It was narrated by Abi Layla as her own word.
2750-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: they will see their gardens, wives, bounties, servants and armchairs stretched out for a distance of a thousand years, and they will see the face of Allah morning and evening as a gift from Allah to them. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) recited the following verse: "Some faces will shine with happiness while looking at their Lord that day." (Surah Al-Qiyamah: 22-23) (Musnad: 4395) This hadith was narrated in various ways from Israel, Suwayr, and Ibn Omar as merfu. Abdulmalik b. Abjar narrated this hadith from Suwayr and Ibn 'Umar.
2751-) Ubeydullah al-Ashcai narrated it from Sufyan, Suwayr, Mujahid and Ibn Omar as his own word, without prejudice. Likewise, Ebu Küreyb, Muhammed b. He narrated a similar one from Ubeydullah al-Ashcai, Sufyan, Suveyr, Mujahid, and Ibn Omar through Ala, without being merciful.
2752-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do you have difficulty seeing the moon on a full moon night? Or do you always have trouble seeing the sun? The Companions replied, “No”. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "You will see your Lord with ease as you see them on the night of the full moon, and you will not encounter any difficulties." (Dârimî, Rikak: 81) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. b. Isa er Remli and many others have narrated this hadith from A'mash, Abu Salih and Abu Huraira. Abdullah b. Idris narrated from A'mesh, Abu Salih and Abu Said. The narration of Ibn Idris from A'mash is not very solid. Abu Salih's narration from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) through Abu Huraira is more robust. Süheyl b. Abi Salih thus narrated this hadith from his father, Abu Salih, and Abu Hurayra. A similar hadith has been narrated from Said in a different way, which is authentic.
2753-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah will say to the people of Paradise: O people of Paradise! And they say, "Our Lord, come, we will bring the order to tomorrow." Allah: Are you satisfied with entering Paradise? The inhabitants of Paradise will say: "How can we not be satisfied, you gave us what you did not give to any of your creations." Allah: “I will give you better than this” They: What could be better than this? They will say. Allah will say: I will declare that I am pleased with you, and I will never be angry. (Muslim, Paradise: 3) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2754-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Heavens will see each other in Paradise as if they see stars setting and rising on the horizon due to the difference in degrees to each other’s mansions. Thereupon, the Companions said: O Messenger of Allah! They said, Are they the mansions of the Prophets? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my soul, that yes, it belongs to the Prophets and all people who believe and believe in Allah and His Messengers." (Muslim, Paradise: 3) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2755-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “On the Day of Judgment, Allah will gather people in a big square and Allah, the Lord of the worlds, will say to them: Attention, attention! Let everyone follow what he serves in the world. Thereupon, those who worship the cross will represent the cross, those who worship idols will be represented by their idols, and those who worship fire will be represented by their fire. Aren't you going to follow these people too? And they will say: We take refuge in you from you, we take refuge in you from Allah, our Lord. Until we see Allah, our place is here, the place of those who serve Allah. Allah commands them and makes them persevere in that thought and belief. Then he asks his servants again, will you not obey these people? Again, those believers say that we take refuge in you from you, we take refuge in you from you, our Lord is Allah. Until we see our Lord, our place is here, the place of those who serve Allah. Allah orders them just like that and makes them persevere with that thought and belief. Companions: O Messenger of Allah! Will we see God? Do you have difficulty seeing the moon on the night of the full moon of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? Companions: They said no. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued: You will not have any difficulty seeing him that day." Allah will appear before those servants and introduce himself, and I am your Lord, follow me!. They will get up and pass like fast horses and camels over the line that has been established, and the prayer they will make as they pass will be: Protect us with peace, protect us. They will remain in Hell, and after a group of them is thrown into Hell, it will be said, "Are you full?" Hell will also say: "Is there more?" Then another batch will be kicked out and you're full again? It will be said. Hell also: “Is there more? When all the people of Hell are filled in Hell, Allah, the Most Gracious, will put his feet in Hell and those in them will squash against each other, then God will say, "Enough is enough," and he will say enough is enough in Hell. When the people of Paradise are placed in Heaven and the people of Hell are placed in Hell, death will be brought by pulling the neck, and they will be stopped on a wall between the people of Paradise and the people of Hell, then they will be called "O people of Paradise," and then they will look with fear, then they will say, "O people of Hell," and they will look at both the people of Hell and the people of Paradise, hoping for intercession with joy; do you know this They will be asked, and they will say that we all know him together, that is death. Then that death will be buried in the form of a ram on the wall between the people of Paradise and Hell, and it will be said: O Heavens, there is eternity, there is no death!... O Hell, there is eternity, there is no death!” (Muslim, Cennet: 13; Dârimî, Rikak: 90) This hadith is hasan. There are many narrations similar to this one from (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and in all of these narrations, it is mentioned that people who have a vision problem see their Lord, and similar things such as attributing their feet to Allah. es Sevrî, Mâlik b. The way that scholars from Anas, Ibn'ul Mubarak, Ibn-u Uyeyna, Vekî' and other imams accept on this issue is as follows: These hadiths are narrated, we believe them, but they are not asked how they are. This is the view accepted by the hadithists, that is, how can it be that these hadiths should be narrated exactly as they came, and that they should be believed and not be interpreted and misunderstood? They preferred not to try. This is the path chosen and followed by scholars. The meaning of the word "He will introduce himself to them" in the hadith means that it will manifest and appear to them.
2756-) Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh) said: “On the Day of Judgment, death will be brought like a tawny ram and will be stopped between Paradise and Hell and will be slaughtered before their eyes. At that moment, if there was a person who was going to die of joy, the people of Paradise would die, and if there was someone who died of grief, the people of Hell would die.” (Muslim, Cennet: 13; Dârimî, Rikak: 90) This hadith is hasan.
2757-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Paradise is surrounded by difficulties and hardships. It is possible to get there by overcoming them. Hell is surrounded by lust and desires. You have to have them in order not to get in there.” (Bukhari, Rikak: 28; Muslim, Jannat: 1) This hadith is hasan garib and is authentic as it is.
2758-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When Allah created Paradise and Hell, He sent Jibril to Paradise and said: Look at Paradise and what I have prepared for the people of Paradise. Jibril came to Paradise, reviewed Paradise and the things prepared for the inhabitants of Paradise in Paradise, and turned to Allah and said: For the sake of glory, whoever sees what is prepared in this Paradise will definitely want to enter it. Thus, Allah commanded and Paradise was surrounded by difficulties and hardships, and Allah said to return and look at Paradise and what I have prepared for the inhabitants of Paradise in Paradise. Jibril returned to Paradise and found it surrounded by difficulties. And he turned to God, for the sake of glory, I was afraid that no one would enter Paradise. Then Allah said: Go to Hell, check and review the things I have prepared for Hell and Hell dwellers. Jibril has gone to Hell, and whatever he sees, troubles, tortures and sufferings are piled on top of each other. He turned to Allah and said: 'By Your Glory, whoever hears of the condition of Hell and enters it,' he said. God commanded Hell, and it was surrounded by lust. Thereupon, he said to Jibril, "Go back to Hell." Jibril returned to Hell. (Bukhari, Rikak: 28; Muslim, Jannat: 1) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2759-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When Paradise and Hell argue with each other; Heaven said: “The weak and the poor will enter me.” Hell also said: “The tyrants and the arrogant ones will enter me too.” Thereupon, Allah said to Hell: “You are my torment, with you I take revenge on whomever I wish. You are my mercy in heaven, I show mercy to whom I wish with you." (Muslim, Jannah: 13) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2760-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The lowest level of Paradise has eighty thousand servants and seventy-two wives. In addition, a dome of pearls, zeberced and rubies will be erected for him, at a distance of approximately the same distance from Cabiye to Sana.” In the same vein, it is narrated that the Prophet said: "Heavens, all those who die at a young or old age will be around the age of thirty and they will never rise above this age, it is exactly the same with the people of Hell."
2761-) In the same year, it was narrated that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: “Heavens have crowns on their heads. The most worthless of pearls on these crowns is bright enough to illuminate between east and west.” (Musnad: 11298) This hadith is strange and we know it only through the narration of Rishdin. All those who die at the age of iv will be around the age of thirty and will never rise above this age, hell.
2762-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When a believer desires a child in Paradise, his pregnancy, birth and age will be completed in an instant as he wishes. ” (Dârimî, Rikak: 110; Ibn Mâce, Zuhd: 39) This hadith is strange. Scholars have differed on this issue. Some say: There is mating in Paradise, but there will be no children. Tawus was thus narrated from Mujahid Ibrahim Nehai. Muhammad says: Ishaq b. Ibrahim says on the hadith that if a believer desires a child in Paradise: But a believer does not desire a child. Bukhari says: It was narrated from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) through Abu Rezîn al-Ukeyli: "The people of Paradise will not have children in Paradise." The name of Siddik en Nâci was Bekr b. It is Amr. Likewise, Bakr b. It is called in Kays.
2763-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is a meeting place for houris in Paradise. They raise some sounds that no creature has ever heard, and they say: We are eternal ones, we will never perish, We are the ones who swim in peace, we will not be troubled, we are content, we will never be angry. (Musnad: 1273) hadiths were also narrated from Abu Huraira, Abu Said and Anas. The hadith of Ali is strange.
2764-) Yahya b. Ibn Kathir (radiyallahu anh) states, in the 15th verse of Allah's Surah Rum: “… the people of Paradise rejoice by enjoying all the blessings in the gardens of Paradise.” About it means to hear and listen. This means that the houris raise their voices as it is mentioned in the hadith. (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
2765-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are three people on the hill of musk on the Day of Judgment, who will envy them both the previous ones and the later ones. The muezzin, who calls five daily prayers every day and every night, the man who is the imam of the congregation who is pleased with him, the slave who fulfills the rights of Allah and his master.” (Musnad: 4568) This hadith is hasan garib and we know it through the narration of Sufyan es Sevrî. Abu'l Yakaza's name is Osman b. It is Umair. It is called Ibn Qays.
2766-) Abdullah b. According to what was narrated from Mas'ud as a merfu, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "There are three people whom Allah loves. The man who gets up at night and reads the book of Allah, the man who hides the alms he gives with his right hand, the man who is in a detachment and meets the enemy alone after his friends escape.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is strange in its form and is not reserved. The authentic narration is from Shu'be and others, from Mansur, Rib'i b. From Hıraş, Zayd b. It is a narration from Zabyan, Abu Dharr. Abu Bakr b. Drunk is a very mistaken person.
2767-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There are three people whom Allah loves, and there are three whom Allah hates. The first of those whom Allah loves is a man, who wants something from a society, what he wants is for Allah, not because of the closeness between them. They don't give anything to this man. A man gives something secretly by standing back from them, only Allah and the person to whom he gives it know. The second person is: A people walk at night and sleep prevails over them and they sleep with their heads bowed, but a man gets up, recites my verses to benefit me and tries to live with him. The third person is; He forms a detachment and they are defeated when they encounter the enemy, but he continues by pushing forward, either he becomes a martyr or Allah grants him victory. The three people with whom Allah is wrathful are: the old adulteress, the arrogant poor, and the rich violators.” (Nesai, Kıyam-ül leyl: 17)
2768-) Mahmud b. Gaylân, Nadr b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Shu'ba through Şümeyl. This hadith is authentic. Likewise, Shayban narrated a similar one from Mansur, and this narration was transmitted by Abu Bakr b. It is more authentic than the narration of Ayyaş.
2769-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Perhaps the Euphrates may recede and reveal a treasure from gold. Whoever is there should not take anything from there.” (Muslim, Fitan: 8; Ibn Majah, Fitan: 25) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2770-) He narrated a similar hadith from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh) and said, "A mountain can rise from under it". (Muslim, Fitan: 8; Ibn Majah, Fitan: 25) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2771-) Hakim b. According to a narration from Muawiya's father, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is a sea of water, a sea of honey, a sea of milk and a sea of wine in Paradise. Then rivers will gush out of them.” (Dârimi, Rikak: 113) This hadith is hasan authentic. Hakim b. Muaviye, Behz b. He is the father of Hakim. On the other hand, Cureyri is named Abu Mes'ud and his name is Said b. It is Iyas.
2772-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever asks for Paradise three times from Allah, Paradise; He prays that Allah will take him to Paradise. Whoever wants to be protected from Hell three times prays, "Hell God, protect him from Hell." (Musnad: 12696) Likewise, Yunus b. Abi Ishaq reported this hadith from Abu Ishaq to Burayd b. He narrated a similar one from Ebi Meryem from Anas. Abu Ishaq likewise Burayd b. Abi Meryem and Enes b. He narrated this hadith from Malik.
2773-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Hell will be brought on the Day of Judgment and it will have seventy thousand vineyards and there will be seventy thousand angels pulling from that vineyard with each vineyard." (Muslim, Jannat: 17) says: Thawri narrates this hadith without being merfu.
2774-) Abd b. Humayd, Abdulmalik b. Umar and Abu Amir al-Akadi from Sufyan, Âla b. He narrated a similar one from Khalid in the same deed without being merfu.
2775-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A group of creatures will emerge from Hell on the Day of Judgment that will have two eyes that see, two ears that hear, and a tongue that speaks and will say: : I have been appointed as a proxy for three people, every stubborn tyrant, those who ascribe divinity to others along with Allah, and those who paint and sculpt.” (Musnad: 8076) A hadith was also narrated from Abu Said (radiyallahu anh). This hadith is hasan garib authentic. They narrated a similar hadith from A'mesh, Atiyya and Abu Said. Eş'as b. Sevvar narrated a similar one from Atiyya and Abu Said al-Khudri.
2776-) According to the narration from Hasan (radiyallahu anh), he said: Utbe b. Gazvan explained that our pulpit above the Basra pulpit said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "A large rock is left over the edge of Hell, and it descends into Hell for seventy years, and it still cannot reach the bottom." Utba continued his words as follows: “Umar used to say: Remember hell, its temperature is very intense, its whips and sledgehammers are made of iron.” (Muslim, Zuhd: 17) Hasan's Utbe b. We do not know that he heard hadith from Ghazwan. Utba b. Gazban came to Basra in the time of Omar, and Hasan was born two years before the end of Omar's caliphate.
2777-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Saud is a mountain of fire, a disbeliever will ascend on this mountain for seventy years and descend for seventy years.” (Musnad: 11287) This hadith is strange and we know it only with this narration of Ibn Lehia.
2778-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The thickness of the skin of an unbeliever who falls into Hell will be forty-two cubits, while the molars are the size of Mount Uhud, and its place in Hell is Mecca and Medina. is between. The hadith (Muslim, Paradise: 27) is hasan sahih.
2779-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “On the Day of Judgment, a disbeliever's molars are as big as Mount Uhud, his thigh is as much as Beyda, and his place of residence in Hell is like Rebze for three nights.” (Muslim, Cennet: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. The word like means the distance between Medina and Rebze. “Beyda” is a mountain the size of Uhud mountain.
2780-) According to what is narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) as a merfu: “The molars of the unbelievers are as large as the Uhud Mountain.” (Muslim, Paradise: 27) This hadith is hasan. Abu Hazim; He is a person called ashcaî. His name is Salman and he is the freed slave of Azze el Eşcaiyye.
2781-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The disbelievers will drag their tongue one or two leagues from the ground and people will trample it with their feet.” (Musnad: 5413) This hadith is garib. We know this hadith only in this way. Fadl b. Yazid is from Kufa. Many imams have narrated hadiths from him. Abu'l Muharik is not a well-known person.
2782-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about the verse “Like Muhl” in the 29th verse of Surah Al-Kahf: When he brings it close to his face like the residue of oil, it will fall into the skin of his face.” (Kahf verse 29… Surely, we have prepared such a fire for the unbelievers that the flaming walls around them will surround them. When they are thirsty and want water, a boiling tar-like water is offered to them, and this water even scorches their faces…) (Musnad: 11244) This hadith is only narrated by Risdin b. . We know from the narration of Sa'd. Rişdîn b. Said, on the other hand, is a person who is talked about back and forth.
2783-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The hamim will penetrate into the abdomen and reach the abdominal cavity, wipe everything out in the abdominal cavity and come out of his feet. This is the Sahar, then it will go back to its original state and this process will go on and on.” (This is the interpretation of the 20th verse of the chapter of Hajj. “The organs and skins in their bellies will be melted with this spilled boiling water.”) (Musnad: 8509) b. Yazid is known as Abu Shuca and is Egyptian. From him Leys b. Sa'd narrated hadith. This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Ibn Hujayra is Abdurrahman b. Huceyre al-Misrî.
2784-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sips it, but it remains in his throat, sipping it, but in the verses of the 16th and 17th verses of Abraham's Surah: He can't swallow, disasters like death surround him from all sides, but he doesn't die again…” he said about the verse: “It will be brought close to his mouth and he will be disgusted with it. When he is brought near, he will burn his face and the skin of his head will fall off. When he drinks it, his intestines will break and he will come out of his dowel. God; In verse 15 of the chapter of Muhammad, it is stated: “... When they are thirsty and want water, they are offered a water like boiled tar, and this water scorches even their faces. It is neither a bad drink nor a bad shelter.” (Musnad: 21254) This hadith is garib. b. Ismail said, “Therefore, Ubeydullah b. From Büsr”. Ubeydullah b. Busr is known only by this hadith. b. Abdullah b. He narrated another hadith from Busr. Abdullah b. Busr had a brother and a sister who heard hadiths from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Safwan b. Amr narrated the hadith of Abu Umama from Ubaydullah b. Büsr, on the other hand, may not be his friend but someone else.
2785-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about the word "Muhl" in the 45th verse of Surah Duhan; He describes it as the residue of boiling oil, and when this treat is brought closer to them, the skin of their faces will fall into it.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
2786-) It is also narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The walls of hellfire are four stories high, and the thickness of each wall is a forty-year journey.”
2787-) In the same deed, it is also narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "If a bucket of pus, which will be served to the people of Hell, was poured into the world, the world would stink." This hadith was only reported by Rishdin b. We know from the narration of Sa'd. It is known that Rişdîn was criticized for his memory. The meaning of the word “kisefu ash cidarin” mentioned above means the thickness of the walls.
2788-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the 102nd verse of Ali-Imran, "O you who believe, try to find your way through the book of Allah and die as a Muslim" and He said: “If a drop of oleander, which is the food of the people of hell, was dripped on the land of the world, it would spoil the livelihood of the people of the world. What will a person whose food is oleander will do..." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2789-) According to the narration from Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Those who are in Hell are given hunger equal to their torment, but they ask for help to be fed. They are treated with bitter and dry thorns called “Dari”. Those thorns will neither feed nor quench hunger. (88 Surah Al-Gashiya 6-7), they want to be fed again, and they are offered thorny food that does not go through the throat (73 Muzzammil: 13) Remembering that they spent the food that stood in the throat with drink, they ask for a drink aid, they are offered boiling water with iron hooks, they burn their faces when they get close to their faces. and it dries. They say that when it enters their bellies, they break everything in their bellies, by the way, call the guards of Hell. The keepers of Hell will say: Didn't our messengers come to you with clear proofs? And they will say yes, and the guardians of Hell: Pray! The supplication of those who deny the truth from Allah is in vain.” (40 Believers 50) The unbelievers will say, "Call Malik," and they will say, "O Malik, let your Lord give his judgment and finish us off, it is better to die and become ashes and coals." Malik will answer and say: "No, you will stay here forever without dying." (43 Zuhruf: 77) says: According to what he told us, a thousand years will pass between the call of the unbelievers and the answer of Malik to them. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: Then the unbelievers say, pray to your Lord, because there is no one more merciful than your Lord, and they say the following prayer: “Our Lord, our evil deeds have overcome us, so we have become the ones who strayed from the path, O our Lord, to this Hell.” If we go back to the sins we have committed again, then we will truly be among the wrongdoers.” (23 Believers 106-109) He will say, "As Allah descends upon them, get down and fall down, stay silent and do not talk to me" (23/108). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued: "They will despair of any means of salvation, and then they will start shouting and calling, regretting and saying woe to us." (Tirmidhi narrated it.) b. Abdurrahman says: Hadith scholars do not narrate this hadith as merfu. This hadith is from A'mesh, Shimr b. From Atiyye, Şehr b. We know that it was narrated from Hawsheb, Umm Darda, and Abu'd Darda as his own words, so it is not merfu. b. Abdulaziz is a reliable person besides hadith scholars.
2790-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the 104th verse of the 23rd chapter of Muminun, “The fire licks their faces, and they stay in the fire with their grinning teeth stripped.” He interpreted it as follows: “It is the fire changing the shape of the face. That is, his upper lip will contract until it reaches the middle of his head, and his lower lip will go down to his navel.” (Musnad: 11409) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Heysem's name is Süleyman b. Amr b. Abdulutvârî. He stayed with Abu Said because he was an orphan.
2791-) Abdullah b. Amr b. According to the narration from As (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If a piece the size of a skull was sent to the earth from the sky – the distance between which is five hundred years – it would reach the earth before the night and if that piece were tied to the head of a chain, it would be rooted. or he would continue on his way for forty years, day and night, before reaching the bottom.” (It interprets the 30-32 verses of 69 Hakka Surah) (Musnad: 6561) The isnad of this hadith is hasan sahih. b. Yazid is Egyptian. Many scholars and Leys b. Sa'd narrated hadith from him.
2792-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The fire you are burning is a part of seventy parts of the heat of Hell. Thereupon, the Companions said: By Allah, even if the fire of Hell was as much as the fire of the world, it would be sufficient for the punishment. O Messenger of Allah! they said. Hell fire has been increased sixty-nine times more than world fires. The degree of each floor is as much as the fire here.” (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 27; Muslim: Cennet: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Hemmâm b. Münebbih, Vehb b. He is the brother of Münebbih. Wahb narrated hadith from him.
2793-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “This fire of yours is one of the seventy pieces of Hellfire. Each piece of them is equivalent to the fire of the world.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith of Abu Said is hasan garib.
2794-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The fire of Hell was burned for a thousand years and turned red. Then it was burned for another thousand years, it turned white, and it became black by burning again for a thousand years, now it is black and dark.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
2795-) Suveyd, Abdullah b. From Sharik, Asim, Abu Salih and another narrator through Mubarak; He narrated one of the hadiths from Abu Hurayra without being merfu to us. The authentic one of Abu Huraira's hadith on this subject is mawkuf. Yahya b. We do not know who narrated this hadith other than the narration of Abi Bukayr from Sharik.
2796-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He complained to Allah that some part of me was eating away at me. Allah ordained for him to take two breaths. A breath in winter, a breath in summer; Because of the breath he took in winter, coldness and ground occurred. Because of the breath he took in summer, the dominant heat and the sam wind appeared.” (Muslim, Masajid: 27; Ibn Majah: Zuhd: 17) This hadith is authentic. It has also been narrated from Abu Huraira in a different way. Mufaddal b. Salih is not a hafiz according to hadith scholars.
2797-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever says there is no god but Allah and has faith in his heart as much as a grain of barley will come out of Hell. In the narration of Shu'ba, get out of Hell the person who says there is no god but Allah and who has faith as much as a grain of wheat in his heart. Bring out of Hell the person who says there is no god but Allah and has an iota of faith in his heart.” In the narration of Shu'be, he said "zere" and the one who has faith as much as millet. (Buhârî, İman: 27; İbn Mâce, Zuhd: 17) on the subject, Jabir Ebû Said and Imran b. A hadith was also narrated from Husayn. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2798-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah will command those who remember me on any day or who fear me in any place, expel them from Hell.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
2799-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I know the one who is the last to leave the Hellfires. A person who will crawl out of Hell and say: O my Lord, people have taken all the places in Paradise and settled down. It will be said to him: Go and enter Paradise. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued as follows: That person also goes to enter Paradise, sees that all the places are occupied by people, returns and says, "O my Lord, the people have filled all the places." The Prophet continued as follows: It will be said to him: Do you remember the situation you used to be in? He will say yes, and then he will be told whatever you wish. He too will ask for something and it will be said to him that whatever you wish for and ten times the world is yours. Ibn Mas'ud said: "Meanwhile, I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) smile so much that his molars were visible." (Bukhari, Rikak: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan.
2800-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I know well the person who is the last to come out of the fire and the last to enter Paradise, among those who are in Hell. A man will be brought and Allah will command him to ask about his minor sins and keep his major sins secret. Then it will be said to him that you did such and such in such and such a day, in such and such a day. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: It will be said to him, "You will be given a reward for every sin of yours." The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Thereupon, O Lord! I have committed some sins, but I cannot see them here... Abu Dharr said: Thereupon, I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) smile so much that his molars were visible.” (Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2801-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Those who believe in Tawhid but are sinners will be punished in Hell and will be like coal. Then they will be brought out of Hell, where mercy will reach them, and they will be thrown in front of the gates of Paradise. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued: People of Paradise will sprinkle water on them. They will come to life again and enter Paradise just as the bushes end in a flood.” (Musnad: 14665) This hadith is hasan. This hadith was also narrated from Jabir in a different way.
2802-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: A person with an iota of faith in his heart will come out of Hell. Abu Said said: Whoever doubts the accuracy of this should recite the following verse: "Allah does not wrong anyone in the least." (4 Nisa: 40) (Musnad: 10655) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2803-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The cries of two people who enter Hell will be loud and Allah will say take them out. He will ask why your screams were so loud when they were removed. They will both say that we did this so that you might pity us. Allah will say: My mercy for you is to throw yourself into Hell where you are. They will go after this, one of them will throw himself, but the fire of Allah will make him cold and safe. The other will stand up and not throw himself. Then, what prevents you from throwing yourself into the fire as your Friend threw at him? And the person who will say it will say, "Ya Rabbi," I expect you not to throw me there again after you take me out. Thereupon, Allah will say: You will achieve what you hope for, and both will enter Paradise by Allah's Mercy.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is weak, because Rishdin b. It is narrated from Sa'd. Rişdîn b. Sa'd's narration from Ibn Nu'm is weak compared to hadith scholars. Ibn Nu'm el Ifrikî. He is weak compared to the hadithists in Ifrîkî.
2804-) Imran b. According to a narration from Husayn (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A group of my Ummah will be expelled from Hell with my intercession. They will be called Hells." (Bukhari, Rikak: 17; Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. Reca el Utaridi's name is Imran b. Taym. Also known as Ibn Milhan.
2805-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I have not seen anyone like those who want Paradise and sleep without doing any heavenly deeds.” (Tirmidhi narrated this hadith.) Only Yahya b. We know from the narration of Ubeydullah. Yahya b. Ubeydullah is weak compared to the hadithists. Shu'ba spoke about him. Yahya b. Ubeydullah's name is Ibn Mevhib and he is from Medina.
2806-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I looked at Paradise, I saw that the majority of Paradise was the poor, I looked at Hell and I saw that the majority of them were women." (Muslim, Dhikr and Prayer: 17)
2807-) Imran b. According to a narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I looked into Hell and saw the majority of those in it as women. I looked at Heaven and saw most of Heaven as the poor.” (Musnad: 19008) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Reca, who was here, from Imran b. He says from Husayn. Ayyub says from Abu Reca and Ibn Abbas. There is nothing to say in both years. It is probable that Abu Reca heard hadith from both of them (i.e. Ibn Abbas and Imran b. Husayn). Other than Awf, Imran b. He narrated from Husayn.
2808-) Numân b. According to a narration from Bashir (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The lightest torment in Hell is a person who has embers of fire under his two feet and his brain is boiling with them." (Bukhari, Rikak: 17; Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is hasan. Abu Huraira, Abbas b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdulmuttalib and Abu Said and Abu Huraira.
2809-) Harise b. According to the narration from Wahb al-Huzai (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Beware, I will inform you of the people of Paradise, that every weak and weak person who takes an oath against Allah, Allah will fulfill his oath. Beware, let me inform you of Hell; every rude, selfish and arrogant person.” (Muslim, Jannah: 13) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2810-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I have been commanded to fight these people until they say there is no god but Allah, but when they say there is no god but Allah, they save their property and their lives from me. The account of their secret situation is up to Allah.” (Nesâî, Tahrimüddem: 1; Muslim, İman: 8) hadiths were also narrated from Jabir, Sa'd and ibn Ömer. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2811-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) died and Abu Bakr became the caliph, some Arabs became unbelievers and left Islam. Khattab said to Abu Bakr: How will you fight these people? Despite the fact that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "I have been commanded to fight with all people until they accept the oneness of Allah, they will save their property and lives from me," Abu Bakr replied to those who separate prayer from Zakat. I swear I will fight against because Zakat is the right of property. I swear by Allah that if they did not give me the halter of a camel that they gave to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), I would fight them because it was not given to me. Thereupon, Umar b. Hattab said: By Allah, when the situation was in this center, I saw that Allah gave relief to Abu Bakr's chest, and I understood that he was right in the war. (Nesâî, Tahrimüddem: 1; Buhârî, Zakat: 29. This hadith is hasan authentic. Shuayb b. Ebî Hamza narrated this hadith from Zuhri, Ubeydullah b. Abdullah and Abu Hurayra. This hadith is from Imran al Kattan, Ma. It is narrated from 'mar' from Zuhri, from Anas b. Malik, from Abu Bakr that this narration is wrong.
2812-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Until these people testify that there is no god but Allah, and that Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) is his servant and prophet, and they turn to our qibla. I have been ordered to fight until they eat what we slaughter and perform our prayers. If they do this, their lives and properties will be forbidden to us..." (Muslim, Faith: 8) Muad b. Hadith was also narrated from Cebel and Abu Huraira. As such, this hadith is hasan sahih garib. b. Ayyub narrated a similar hadith from Humayd and Anas.
2813-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Islam was founded on five pillars. To testify that there is no god but Allah, and that Muhammad is Allah's servant and messenger, to perform prayers, to give zakat, to fast in Ramadan and to make pilgrimage to the Ka'ba. (Muslim, Faith: 1; Bukhari, Faith: 1) Cerir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah. This hadith is hasan authentic. It has been narrated from Ibn Umar in different ways. b. Hıms is a reliable person next to hadith scholars.
2814-) Hanzale b. from ebî Sûfyan al-Jumahi, İkrime b. They have narrated a similar hadith to us from Khalid al-Mahzumi and Ibn Omar. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2815-) Yahya b. According to the narration from Ya'mur (radiyallahu anh), the first person to talk about the denial of fate was Ma'bed al-Juheni, finally me and Humayd b. Together with Abdurrahman al-Hımyeri, we came to Medina. We said that if we met a person from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), we would ask him about the fate that these people revealed. Then Abdullah b. We met with Omar, he was coming out of the mosque, and my friend and I came to him. I believed that my friend would leave it to me to talk about it, to Ibn Omar: O Abu Abdurrahman: Some people read the Qur'an and dive into deep issues in science, saying that there is no such thing as fate, that everything happens at once. Abdullah b. Umar said: If you meet them again, inform them that I am far from them and they are far from me. If there is one truth that Abdullah can say with an oath, it is this: If one of them spends as much gold as the mountain of Uhud in the way of Allah, it will not be accepted from him unless he believes in destiny and its good and evil. b. Ya'mur said: Then Abdullah b. Umar began to tell a hadith and said: Umar b. Khattab said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) once. At that moment, a man with very white hair appeared. There were no traces of travel on it, and none of us recognized him. This person came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and stuck his knee to the knee of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and O Muhammad! What is faith? She asked. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: It is to believe in Allah, His angels, His books, His prophets, in the Hereafter, in destiny with good and evil. Then that man, what is Islam? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "To testify that there is no god but Allah, and that Muhammad is the servant and messenger of Allah, and to perform the prayer, to pay zakat, to make pilgrimage and to fast in Ramadan." Then what is that man ihsan? She asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said: Worshiping as if you see Allah. Even if you don't see him, he sees you all the time. Umar said: Upon the answer of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to all these questions he asked, that person always said, "You are telling the truth." We were amazed at this man, he was asking questions and confirming that he was right. That man asked again: When will the Doomsday come? Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The person who was asked about the Doomsday; No more knowledgeable than the person asking. What are the signs of the apocalypse this time? She asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The concubine gives birth to her lady (that is, the children born will treat their parents as slaves) and you see barefooted, bare-footed and poor shepherds competing with the buildings they have built. Umar said: Three days after this incident, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) met me and O Umar! Who was that questioner? do you know? He was Jibril, he had come to teach you religious matters.” (Muslim, Faith: 1; Nasai, Faith: 6)
2816-) Ahmed b. Muhammad, through Ibn'ul Mubarak Kehmes b. He narrated a similar hadith from Hasan in the same deed.
2817-) Talha b. Ubeydullah, Enes b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik and Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Umar in different ways. The hadith was also reported from Ibn Umar. The authentic narration is the narration of Ibn Umar from Umar.
2818-) Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh) said in the narration: The delegation of Abdulkays came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: "As this tribe of the Rabia tribe, we can only meet with you in the forbidden months, order us something so that we learn it from you and follow us. Let's invite others to him as well.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I order you four things; He interpreted "belief in Allah first" and then belief in Allah as follows: Testing that there is no god but Allah and that I am the messenger of Allah's servant, performing prayers, paying zakat and giving one-fifth of what you have captured as booty. (Nasai, Faith: 6; Muslim, Faith: 6)
2819-) Kutayba Hammad b. He transmitted a similar hadith from Abu Jamra and Ibn Abbas through Zayd. This hadith is authentic. The name of Abu Cemre ed Dubaî was Nasr b. He is Imran. Shu'ba also narrated this hadith from Jamra and added the following: "Do you know? What is faith? He also mentioned the same hadith by adding the sentence "to testify that there is no god but Allah and that I am the prophet of Allah". Qutayba b. I heard Said say: “I have never seen another person like these four notable scholars. Malik b. Enes, Leys b. Sa'd, Abbad al-Muhellebi and Abdulvehhab es-Sakafi.” says: Everyday Abbad b. We would have been glad to have returned with two hadiths from Abbad. Abbad b. Abbad, Mühelleb b. He is one of the children of Ebi Sufra.
2820-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The most intense believers in terms of faith are those who are the most beautiful in terms of morals, and those who are kind and gentle towards their children and have a lot of forgiveness.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 15; Bukhari, Faith: 33) Abu Hurayra and Enes b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik. This hadith is authentic and we know it only after Abu Qalabe heard it from Aisha. Abu Qalabe, Aisha's baby boy, Abdullah b. He narrated another hadith other than this one from Aisha through Yazid. The name of Abu Qalabe was Abdullah b. Zayd al Cermi. quoting Abu Omar Sufyan, he said: Ayyub es Sahtiyani talked about Abu Qilabe and said: "By Allah, he was one of the sane jurists."
2821-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave a sermon to people and said: “O women's community! Give alms, for most of Hell belongs to you.” a woman among them; “O Messenger of Allah! What is the reason of this?" When you ask; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is because you curse your husbands and are very ungrateful. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) continued: Intelligent and shrewd men; I have not seen anyone who leads astray more quickly than you women who lack intelligence and religion. A woman among them: What is the lack of a woman in terms of reason and religion? She asked. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The testimony of two women among you is equal to the testimony of one man. The shortcoming of your religion is that you are menstruating, which means that you cannot pray for a few days when you are menstruating.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also narrated from Abu Said and Ibn Omar. As such, this hadith is authentic garib hasan.
2822-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are more than seventy parts of faith. The lowest level is to remove the harmful things, and the highest level is to say that there is no god but Allah.” (Bukhari, Faith: 2; Muslim, Faith: 12) This hadith is hasan. Likewise, Süheyl b. Abi Salih, Abdullah b. He narrated this hadith to us from Dinar, Abu Salih and Abu Huraira.
2823-) Imara b. Ghaziyya narrates this hadith from Abu Salih and Abu Huraira and says, "Faith consists of sixty-four parts". as Kutaybe, Bekir b. Mudar through Imara b. He narrated these "sixty-four" hadiths from Gaziyya, Abu Salih, and Abu Huraira.
2824-) According to the narration from Salim's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) passed by a person who was advising his brother about hair, and he said: “Haya is from belief.” Ahmed b. Meni says: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) heard someone giving advice to his brother..." (Bukhari, Iman: 3; Muslim, Iman: 12) This hadith is hasan sound. A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira, Abu Bakr and Abu Umama.
2825-) Muâz b. According to a narration from Jabal (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey, and I was close to him while walking on the road, O Messenger of Allah! Said; “Teach me such a deed that it will take me away from Hell and put me in Heaven!” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "You asked me a big question, but it is very easy for those whom Allah makes easy. It is as follows: You worship Allah in every subject and at all times, do not associate anything with Him, perform your prayers regularly and properly, give your zakat, fast in Ramadan, perform pilgrimage…” Then he continued: “I will show you the ways of goodness, and fasting is the shield. Charity; It wipes out sins like water extinguishes fire. It wipes out mistakes in a person's night prayer." Muaz said: Then, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, 32 Surah Sajda, 16-17. The verse of the verse: “They are those who get up at night and invoke their Lord in fear and hope, and those who spend on others from what we have given them a livelihood. As for the believers who behave like this, no one can imagine what is hidden for them as a reward for what they have done in the next world as the light of the eye, which has been hidden for them until now. Me too, O Messenger of Allah! Said. He said: “The beginning of everything is Islam, that is, surrendering the will to Allah. Its pillar is prayer, and its apex is jihad.” Then he continued: “Shall I tell you the heart of all this?” I said yes, O Prophet of Allah. "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) held his tongue and said, "For your own comfort, hold this." Me too, O Messenger of Allah!: Will we be questioned because of our speeches? Said. He said: “May your mother be longing for you, O Muâz! It is nothing but the gains of the tongues that fill Hell with their faces and noses crawling on the ground.” (Muslim, Iman: 12; Bukhari, Iman: 2) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2826-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If you see a person going to the mosque after taking care of it, witness his faith. For, Allah (9:18) also says: Visiting the mosques of Allah or repairing them, keeping them alive and keeping them at the top is only possible except Allah, who believes in Allah and the Last Day, and is steadfast in their prayers and gives their Zakat. belongs to those who are not afraid of anyone. These are the ones who are hoped to be among the righteous.” (Ibn Majah, Masajid: 18) This hadith is hasan garib.
2827-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Between belief and unbelief is the abandonment of prayer.” (Muslim, Faith: 35)
2828-) Narrated a similar hadith from A'mash (radiy-Allâhu anh) in the same vein and said: (Muslim, Faith: 35; Ibn Majah, Iqama: 77) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Sufyan's name was Talha b. It is Nafi.
2829-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Between a servant and unbelief there is abandoning prayer.” (Muslim, Faith: 35; Ibn Majah, Iqama: 77) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu'z Zubayr's name is Muhammad b. Muslim b. It is located.
2830-) According to the narration from Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The difference between us and the hypocrites, polytheists and unbelievers is prayer. Whoever abandons it becomes a disbeliever.” (Muslim, Iman: 35; Ibn Majah, Iqama: 77) hadiths were also reported from Anas and Ibn Abbas. This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
2831-) Tabiden, Abdullah b. Shakîk al-Ukayli (radiy-Allâhu anh) says: “The companions of Muhammad did not consider abandoning any of the deeds other than prayer unbelief, but they regarded abandoning prayer as unbelief.” (Muslim, Iman: 35; Ibn Mâce, Ikame: 77) says: I heard from Abu Mus'ab al-Madini: "Whoever says that faith consists of words is called to repent. If he does not repent, he will be beheaded.
2832-) Abbas b. According to a narration from Abdulmuttalib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “The person who accepts Allah as Lord, Islam as religion and Muhammad as Prophet and is satisfied with that life has tasted the taste of faith. ” (Muslim, Faith: 15) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2833-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever has three qualities, finds the flavor of faith thanks to them. The fact that Allah and the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) are more beloved to a person than others, to love what one loves for Allah's sake, and to dislike turning into disbelief after being saved by Allah as much as he does not like being thrown into the fire.” (Muslim, Faith: 15; Bukhari, Faith: 8) This hadith is hasan. Qatada also narrated this hadith from Anas in the same way.
2834-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A person who commits adultery does not commit adultery even though he is a believer. A thief cannot steal as a believer, but if he repents, it is hoped that his repentance will be accepted.” (Muslim, Faith: 24; Bukhari, Mazâlim: 30) Ibn Abbas, Aisha, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Abi Awfa. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan sahih in this form. It is also narrated from Abu Huraira as follows: When a servant commits adultery, faith comes out of him and rests on his head like a canopy. When he quits that job, faith returns to himself. Cafer Muhammed b. It was narrated that Ali said: In this regard, there is a way out of Iman and Islam. It was also narrated from the Prophet as follows. If adultery commits a crime such as theft and is punished, this punishment is expiation for his sin. If he commits one of these crimes and Allah covers his crime, his situation is up to Allah. If he wishes, he can punish him on the Day of Judgment, and if he wishes, he forgives himself. In this hadith, Ali b. Ebî Tâlib, Ubade b. Samit, Huzeyme b. It was reported from Sabit.
2835-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever commits a crime and is punished in this world, Allah does not have to double the punishment on his servant in the hereafter. Whoever commits a crime and Allah covers him up and forgives himself, he will not punish him again on the Day of Judgment. His forgiveness and forgiveness is more than his punishment.” (Ibn Majah, Hudud: 33) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. The view of scholars is according to this hadith. We do not know of any scholars who have ruled that a person will become a disbeliever because of adultery, theft and drinking wine.
2836-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A Muslim is a person from whose hand and tongue Muslims find safety. A believer is a person whom people trust with regard to their lives and property.” (Muslim, Faith: 14; Bukhari, Faith: 3) This hadith is hasan authentic. It is also narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and Muslims were asked which of them was more valuable, and they said: He is the one from whose tongue and hand Muslims find salvation. Jabir, Abu Musa and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr.
2837-) According to the narration from Abu Musa al-Ashari (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked: “Which of the Muslims is superior?” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He is the one from whose tongue they find salvation.” (Nesai, Faith: 11) As the hadith of Abu Musa, this hadith is authentic.
2838-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Islam started in a strange state and will return to a strange state again. Happy are those poor people.” (Ibn Mâce, Fiten: 15; Dârimî, Rikak: 42) Sa'd, İbn Ömer, Câbir, Enes and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. As the narration of Ibn Mas'ud, this hadith is hasan sahih. hadith Hafs b. We know it from Gays' narration from A'mesh. Name of Abu'l Ahvas: Avf b. Malik b. He is Nadle al-Cûşemi. Only Hafs narrated from him.
2839-) Amr b. Avf b. Zayd b. According to the narration from Milha's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Religion will gather and retreat to the area of Hijaz, just as a snake gathers and enters its hole. Just as mountain goats gather at the top of the mountains, religion, that is, those who practice religion, will gather in the Hijaz region. The religion of Allah, that is, the religion of Islam, started as a foreign system between societies and will become foreign again in the future. Blessed are those poor people who will change and correct what people have corrupted with my Sunnah and my way.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2840-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “The signs of a hypocrite are three; When he speaks, he lies, when he makes a promise, he does not keep his word, when he is entrusted with something, he is a traitor. (Bukhari, Faith: 25; Muslim, Faith: 25) This hadith is hasan garib as the hadith of Ala. It has also been narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways. On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Ibn Mas'ud, Anas and Jabir.
2841-) Ali b. Hucr, İsmail b. Cafer, Abu Süheyl b. He narrated a similar hadith from Malik, from his father and from Abu Huraira. This hadith is authentic. Ebû Süheyl, Mâlik b. He was the uncle of Enes and his name was Malik b. Nafi' b. Malik b. He is Abu Amir al Asbahi al Havlani.
2842-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person who has four characteristics has definitely become a hypocrite. If one of these four characteristics is found, that person will have the feature of hypocrisy until he abandons that feature. He who lies when he speaks, does not keep his word when he makes a promise, goes to extremes when he is sued, and breaks his contract when he agrees.” (Bukhari, Faith: 25; Muslim, Faith: 25) This hadith is hasan.
2843-) Hasan b. Ali el Hallal, Abdullah b. Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Murra with this deed. This hadith is hasan authentic. The meaning of this hadith is hypocrisy in action by scholars. Hypocrisy with belief is the hypocrisy made in the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Something similar to this is reported from Basri, who says: There are two kinds of hypocrisy. The other one is the hypocrisy in deeds and the other one is the hypocrisy of denial.
2844-) Zayd b. According to a narration from Erkam (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person makes a promise and intends to fulfill it but cannot fulfill it for reasons beyond his control, then he is not a sinner.” (Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 82) This hadith is strange and its isnad is not very strong. Ali b. Abdul Ala is a reliable person. Ebûn Numan and Ebû Vakkâs are unknown and unknown people.
2845-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Fighting a Muslim against his brother is disbelief, and a Muslim insulting a Muslim is disobedience to Allah." (Bukhari, Faith: 10; Muslim, Faith: 28) Sa'd and Abdullah b. A hadith has also been reported from Mughaffel. The hadith of Ibn Mas'ud is hasan authentic. Abdullah b. It has also been narrated from Mas'ud in different ways.
2846-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Insulting a Muslim is disobedience to Allah. Fighting against him is blasphemy." (Bukhari, Iman: 10; Muslim, Iman: 28) The meaning of the hadith is "to fight him is kufr," does not mean like a person who apostatizes from religion. The proof is the following hadith reported from Aswad: “Whoever kills a Muslim knowingly, the relatives of the killed person will be freed. If they want, they want the murderer killed, if they want, they forgive." If a person were to become a disbeliever by killing him, this freedom would not be given to the relatives of the deceased and that person would definitely be killed. (There is a gap of six words here.) Abbas, Tavus, Ata and many scholars say: There are degrees in unbelief and degrees in the fountain.
2847-) Fixed b. According to a narration from Dahhak (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “It is not obligatory to make a vow on a Muslim for something that he does not have and cannot obtain. Whoever curses his believing brother is as if he killed him. The person who accuses his believing brother of disbelief is as if he killed him. A person who commits suicide and kills himself with any tool, Allah will punish him on the Day of Judgment with the tool with which he killed himself.” (Bukhari, Adab: 44; Muslim, Zuhd: 1) hadiths were also reported from Abu Dharr and Ibn Omar. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2848-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If a Muslim calls his Muslim brother an unbeliever, one of them will return with this title." In other words, if the person who is called a kafir does not have the characteristic of being a disbeliever, then the disbelief will return to the person who said this word. (Muslim, Faith: 26; Bukhari, Adab: 73) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. The meaning of the word “Bae” is to decide.
2849-) Ubade b. It was narrated from Samit. Sunabihi said: Ubade b. When Samit was at the time of his death, I went to him and cried. So take it easy, why are you crying? Said. If you are asked to testify, I will testify in your favor. Then he continued his words as follows: By Allah, I have conveyed to you every hadith that I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and which is beneficial for you. With the exception of only one hadith, I will tell you about it today because my existence is surrounded by death. I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) say: "Whoever testifies that there is no god but Allah and that Muhammad is the prophet of Allah, Allah will forbid him the fire of Hell." (Bukhari, Faith: 42) Abu Bakr, Omar, Osman, Ali, Talha, Jabir, Ibn Omar, Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Khalid. Some say they heard it from Ibn Umar, some say they heard it from Ibn Uyeyna. Muhammed b. Aclan is a reliable and correct person about hadith. As such, this hadith is hasan sahih garib. Abdurrahman b. Useyle is Abu Abdullah. According to what is reported from Zuhri; The hadith of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) "He who says there is no god but Allah will enter Paradise" was asked, and he replied: "This was before the obligatory orders and prohibitions came down at the beginning of Islam." According to some scholars, the interpretation of this hadith is as follows: Even if those who believe in Tawhid and believe in one God are punished for their sins, they will eventually come out of Hell and enter Paradise. Mes'ud, Ebû Zerr, Imran b. Husayn, Câbir b. Abdullah, Ibn Abbas, Ebû Said el Hudri and Enes b. It was narrated from Malik that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A group of people of Tawhid will be expelled from Hell and enter Paradise." as Said b. Many people from Jubayr, Ibrahim Nahai and his followers are of this opinion. Differently from Hurayra, regarding the second verse of the chapter of Hijr, “The unbelievers will desire to become Muslims many times.” It is reported that he said: "When the people of Tawhid receive their punishment in Hell and enter Paradise, the unbelievers will say, "I wish we were Muslims."
2850-) Abdullah b. Amr b. According to a narration from As (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “On the Day of Judgment, Allah will separate one person from my Ummah in front of everyone and open ninety-nine cases against that person. The size of each file will be as far as the eye can see, then he will ask himself: Do you reject any of these? Have the angels, my guardian of deeds, wronged you? No one, O Lord! He will answer. Then he will ask if you have any excuses, and the person will say no, O Lord. Thereupon, Allah will say: Yes, you have an acceptable deed with us and you will never be treated unfairly today. I testify that there is no true god but Allah. A piece of paper will be taken out with the inscription that Muhammad is his servant and Messenger and it will say, "Find yourself on your own scale." That person will say: O my Lord, this is a single piece of paper... and how will these files be weighed... Allah will say that he will never persecute you today... The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Sin records are one. The piece of paper will be placed on the pan, and the piece of paper will be placed on the pan, and the piece of paper will be lifted up. Nothing can outweigh the name of Allah.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 17) This hadith is hasan garib.
2851-) Qutayba, through Ibn Lehia, to Amir b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us with this deed from Yahya.
2852-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The Jews have divided into seventy-one or seventy-two sects, and the Christians are just as much… My ummah will be divided into seventy-three sects.” (Ibn Mace, Fitan: 17; Abu Dâvûd, Sunnah: 1) Sa'd, Abdullah b. Amr and Awf b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
2853-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “Everything that comes to the sons of Israel will also come to my ummah. They will be in the same condition as the equality of the shoe to the shoe. Even if one of them openly approaches his mother, there will be those in my Ummah who do the same. The children of Israel were divided into seventy-two nations. My Ummah will be divided into seventy-three nations. All but one of them will be in Hell. Companions: “Who is that nation?” They asked: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I and my companions are from whatever nation and religion we are from." (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is explained more than the previous hadith. This hadith is garib and we only know it in this way.
2854-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Deylemî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Abdullah b. I heard from Amr, he said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he said: Allah created his creatures in darkness and gave them a light from his own light. Whoever hits a piece of that light will find guidance. Whoever does not reach a piece of that light remains in error. That is why I say that the pen and the ink have dried up, according to Allah's knowledge.” (Musnad: 6356) This hadith is hasan.
2855-) Muâz b. According to a narration from Jabal (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked me: What is Allah's right over His servants? You know, he said. I said that Allah and His Prophet know better. Thereupon, he said: Allah's right over His servants is that they worship and serve Him only, and that they do not associate anything or anyone with His authority. (Bukhari, Jihad: 17; Muslim, Faith: 27) Do you know what the rights of the slaves over Allah are when they do this? He commanded. I said, 'Allah and His Messenger know better. They said: "Not to punish them." The hadith is hasan authentic. Muaz b. It was also narrated by Cebel in a different way.
2856-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Jibril came to me and gave me the good news that anyone who dies without associating anything with Allah will enter Paradise. Even if he commits adultery or steals?” Said. “Yes” they said. (Bukhari, Janaiz: 17; Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith was also narrated from Abu'd Darda on the subject.
2857-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever Allah wishes good for, He makes him knowledgeable and understanding in religious matters." (Darimi, Muqaddime: 16) Hadiths were also narrated on this subject from Omar, Abu Huraira and Muawiya. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2858-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever sets out to study the science of religion and resorts to any reason, Allah will make the way to Paradise easy for him.” (Muslim, Dhikr: 17; Abu Dawud, Salat: 27) This hadith is hasan.
2859-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever sets out to study religious sciences, it is as if he has made jihad in the way of Allah until he returns." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Some of them have narrated this hadith without merfu.
2860-) According to the narration from the Sahabah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever sets out to study religious knowledge and learns knowledge by clinging to all causes, this will be expiation for his past sins.” (Dârimî, Mukaddime: 6) The isnad of this hadith is weak. Abu Dawud, one of the narrators of the hadith, was considered weak. Abdullah b. Not much is known about the hadith from the Sahber and his father. The name of Abu Dawud is Nüfey' and A'ma. Many scholars and Qatada spoke to him.
2861-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever is asked about the religious knowledge he has learned, and if he hides that knowledge for various reasons, that person will be hit with a bridle of fire on the Day of Judgment.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 24; Abu Dâvûd: Science: 17) on the subject Jabir and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan.
2862-) According to the narration from Abu Harun al Abdi (radiyallahu anh), he said: We used to come to Abu Said to learn some things from him; he used to say to us: Welcome, on the advice of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), because; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "People will follow the learned scholars of my Companions. Muslims will come to you from different parts of the world to learn about religion. When they come to you, give them good advice.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 17) Ali, Yahya b. He stated that Said said: Shu'ba considered Abu Harun al Abdi weak in hadith. Yahya b. Said says: Ibn Avn narrated hadiths from Abu Harun al Abdi until he died. Abu Harun's name is Imara b. He is Cuveyn.
2863-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Muslims will come to you from the eastern region to learn knowledge. When they come to you: Give them good advice. Abu Harun al Abdi said: When Abu Said saw us, he said welcome in accordance with the advice of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 22; Dârimî, Mukaddime: 26) We know this hadith only through the narration of Abu Harun from Abu Said.
2864-) Abdullah b. Amr b. According to a narration from As (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah is not one to pull knowledge out of people's minds and lift it up. But he will abolish science by eliminating scholars. In the end, there will be no scholars left, and people will choose ignorant people as their leader, leader and savior, and they will ask them about religious and scientific issues, and by giving fatwas ignorantly, they will both go astray and mislead others. (Muslim, Science: 5; Ibn Mâce, Mukaddime: 1) Aisha and Ziyâd b. Hadith was also narrated from Labid. This hadith is hasan authentic. The same hadith is from Zuhri, Urve, Abdullah b. They narrated similarly from Amr and Aisha.
2865-) According to the narration from Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and his eyes were fixed on the sky and he said: "When knowledge is lost from people, they will not be able to do anything in the name of knowledge." Thereupon, Ziyâd b. Labîd al-Ansari said: How can knowledge be stolen from us and destroyed even though we constantly recite the Qur'an? “I swear by Allah that we will definitely recite the Qur'an and we will make our women and children read it too.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: O Ziyad, may your mother burn with longing for you, I was counting you as one of the lawyers of the people of Medina. Here, the Torah and the Bible are in the hands of Jews and Christians. What good does it do them? Jubayr says: Then Ubade b. I met Samit and did you not hear what your brother Abu'd Darda was talking about? I informed him of what Abu'd Darda had said to Ubade b. Samit gave the following answer: Abu'd Darda told the truth. If you wish, shall I inform you of the first knowledge that will be removed from the people? It's "Awe". Perhaps you will enter a great mosque and you will not find a man in awe.” (Muslim, Science: 5; Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 1) This hadith is hasan garib. Muaviye b. Salih is a trusted person among hadith scholars. Yahya b. We do not know anyone who spoke about him other than Said al-Kattan. Muawiya b. A similar hadith was narrated from Salih. Some of them also reported this hadith as Abdurrahman b. Cubeyr b. Nüfeyr from his father, Avf b. They narrated from Malik.
2866-) Ka'b b. According to a narration from Malik's father, Malik (may Allah be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) say: "May Allah bless the person who acquires knowledge to argue with scholars or to fight the common people or to attract the attention of the people. He will throw you into hell.” (Dârimî, Mukaddime: 34) This hadith is strange and we know it only as it is. Ishaq b. Yahya b. Talha is not one of the well-known people among hadith scholars. It has been mentioned about his memory.
2867-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: A person who learns for purposes other than Allah's sake or who seeks other things than Allah's approval through knowledge should immediately prepare for his place in Hell.” (Abu Dawud, Science: 4) A hadith was also narrated from Jabir on the subject. This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only in this form as the narration of Ayyub.
2868-) Ebân b. According to what is reported from Uthman, he said: “Zayd b. In the middle of the fixed day, we said that he came out of Marvan's side at this hour to ask him something, we got up and asked him, he said yes. He asked about what I heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say, "May the face of a person who hears a hadith from us and keeps it in his memory and transfers it to someone else, may Allah make his face white. There are people who are loaded with knowledge that sometimes they can transfer it to someone more understanding than themselves. Most of the time, a person who is loaded with knowledge will not be self-sufficient.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 1) Abdullah b. Mes'ûd, Muâz b. Cebel, Cübeyr b. Hadith was also narrated from Mut'im, Abu'd Darda and Anas. Zayd b. The fixed hadith is hasan.
2869-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “May Allah brighten the face of the person who hears something from us and conveys it to others as he hears it. Because the person who is conveyed may be more understanding and insightful than the person who conveyed the message by hearing from me.” (Ibn Majah, Muqaddimah: 1) the hadith is hasan authentic. Abdulmalik b. Umayr reported this hadith from Abdurrahman b. It was narrated from Abdullah.
2870-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "May Allah make the face of the one who hears a word from me memorize it and convey it to others. There are many knowledgeable people who transfer their knowledge to someone more knowledgeable than themselves. These three groups of people are never deceived, their hearts are pure, sound and right. The person who does everything he does with sincerity and sincerity is the person who advises the leaders and leaders of the Muslims; one who believes in the necessity of congregation, all three of which are within the scope of the invitation.” (Ibn Majah, Muqaddimah: 18)
2871-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever deliberately utters a word as if it were mine, should immediately prepare for his seat in Hell." (Bukhari, Science: 27; Ibn Majah, Muqaddimah: 17)
2872-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not lie in a word, as if it belongs to me, whoever tells a lie that is not from me as if it is from me will go to Hell.” (Bukhari, Science: 27; Ibn Mâce, Mukaddime: 17) Abu Bakr, Ömer Osman, Zübeyr, Said b. Zayd, Abdullah b. Amr, Enes, Jabir, Ibn Abbas, Abu Said, Amr b. Abese, Ukbe b. Amir, Muaviye, Bureyde, Abu Musa al Gafiki, Abu Umama, Abdullah b. The hadiths were also narrated from Amr, al-Mukanna' and Aws es-Sakafi. The hadith of Ali is hasan authentic. b. Mahdi says: Mansur b. Mu'temir; He is one of the strongest people of Kufa. Vekî'is says: Rıb'î b. Hıraş has never lied about Islam.
2873-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever lies as if it belongs to me when it is not from me - I think he said deliberately - should get ready for his home in Hell immediately." (Bukhari, Science: 27; Ibn Majah, Muqaddimah: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as Zuhri's narration from Anas. It has also been narrated from Enes in a different way.
2874-) Muğîre b. According to a narration from Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever tells a hadith from me even though he knows it is a lie, he is one of the two liars." (Muslim, Mukaddime: 17; Ibn Mâce, Mukaddime: 27) Ali b. Hadith was also narrated from Abi Talib and Samura. This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith is from Hakam, Abdurrahman b. It was narrated from Abî Layla, from Samura. A'meş and İbn ebi Leyla are from the referee, Abdurrahman b. They narrated from Abi Layla and Ali. Abdurrahman b. Abi Layla's narration from Samura is more authentic compared to hadith scholars. Ebû Muhammed, Abdullah b. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to Abdurrahman: "Whoever tells a hadith from me even though he knows it is a lie, is one of the two liars." I asked him about this hadith: "Is it feared that a person who narrates a hadith even though he knows it is wrong, will enter this hadith of the Prophet? Or, if he narrates a hadith that is narrated as mursal by everyone as musnad, or if he changes its book, will it be valid for this hadith? He replied: “No, but if someone narrates a hadith from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) even though the origin of that hadith is unknown; I am afraid that this hadith will come into effect.”
2875-) According to the narration from Abu Rafi (radiyallahu anh), -others narrated this hadith as merfu and said: "Beware! one of you; I don't know, I don't know, when one of the issues I ordered or prohibited reaches him, I don't know, we follow what we find in the book of Allah (when we say we don't know the hadiths), let me not find it.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 2; Abu Dâvûd, Sunnah: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith is mursal from Sufyan and Ibn al-Munkadir from Salim b. Ubeydullah b. They narrated from Abu Rafi and his father. Sûfyan b. When Uyeyna narrated this hadith alone, Muhammad b. According to Munkadir's narration, Sâlim b. He would distinguish between the narrations of Abu'n Nadr. When he narrated together, he used to narrate by combining the two documents. Abu Rafi is one of the slaves freed by the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and his name is "Elsem".
2876-) Mıkdam b. According to a narration from Ma'dikerib (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Beware! Even though one of you is seated, a hadith from me will reach him, and that person will say: There is the book of Allah between us and you. Whatever we find halal in this book, we consider it halal, and whatever is haram is also haram. Indeed, something that the Messenger of Allah has made unlawful is like what Allah has made unlawful.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 2; Dârimî, Mukaddime: 6) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
2877-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We asked the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) for permission to write the hadiths, but we were not allowed (due to the danger that it might interfere with the Qur'an).” (Muslim, Zuhd: 17) This hadith is another way Zayd b. It was also narrated from Eslem, and Hemmâm also narrated from him.
2878-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); “A man from the Ansar would sit next to the Prophet, listen to the hadiths of the Prophet, he liked it, but he could not memorize it. He complained about this situation to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said, "O Messenger of Allah! Said. I hear a hadith from you, I like it, but I cannot memorize it. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to seek the help of his hand and pointed to writing with his hand. (Tirmidhi narrated.) The proof of this hadith is not very solid. b. I heard from Ismail, he was saying: “Khalil b. Murra's hadiths are munkar.
2879-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) delivered a sermon and mentioned a story in his sermon. Thereupon, Abu Shah said: O Messenger of Allah! Said. Write me this parable. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Write this for Abu Shah." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is a bit long. Shayban, Yahya b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abu Kathir.
2880-) Hemmâm b. According to a narration from Munabbih (radiy-Allâhu anh), I heard Abu Huraira say: “No one from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) narrated hadith as much as I did. However, Abdullah b. Amr is excluded because he was writing and I was not.” (Bukhari, Science: 17; Dârimî, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. Wahb b. Münebbih, Hemmam b. He is the brother of Münebbih.
2881-) Abdullah b. According to what was narrated from Amr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Transmit it to others, even if it is only one verse from me. There is no harm in quoting exemplary things from the sons of Israel. But whoever deliberately says and conveys something that is not mine, as if it belongs to me, should immediately prepare for his place in Hell.” (Bukhari, Anbiya: 52) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2882-) Muhammed b. Beşşar from Evzâî through Abu Âsım, Hassân b. From Atiyye, Abu Kebse es Selulî and Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Amr to us, which is hasan authentic.
2883-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “A man who wanted a riding animal was taken to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). However, when the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) could not find a mount to mount him, he showed him someone else. This person also provided him with a mount. The man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and informed him of the situation. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "It is as if he has done good that is a means of good." (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also narrated from Abu Mas'ud al-Badri and Burayda. In this way, this hadith is strange as the narration of Anas.
2884-) According to the narration from Mas'ud al-Badri (radiy-Allâhu anh): “A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and asked him for a riding animal and said: I have nothing left, whatever you do. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to go to so-and-so. The man went to that person, and he provided him with a mount. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Whoever causes a good deed, there is a reward equal to the reward of the person who does it. (Muslim, Imara: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Amr al-Shaybani is Sa'd b. It is Iyas. The name of Ebû Mes'ûd el Bedrî is Ukbe b. It is Amr.
2885-) Hasan b. Ali el Hallal, Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from A'mash, Abu Amr al-Shaybani and Abu Mas'ud through Nümeyr, and he did not doubt the words of the hadith, saying, "He is as good as the reward of the one who does good."
2886-) According to the narration from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Be a mediator in everything to earn rewards. Allah will give whatever judgment He wishes from the tongue of His Prophet." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 72; Muslim: Birr: 61) This hadith is hasan authentic. Burayd's patronymic is Abu Burda. He is from Kufa and is a reliable person in hadith. Shu'ba, Thawri and Ibn Uyeyna narrated hadiths from him.
2887-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is no human being who was killed unjustly, except that Adam's first son had a share in his sin and guilt. Because he is the first to bring about the killing.” Abdurrezzak said "sennel slaughter" instead of "essennel slaughter" in the hadith, and the meaning is the same. (Bukhari, Anbiya: 17; Muslim, Kasame: 7) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2888-) Ibn Abi Omar, Sufyan b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us with this deed from A'mesh through Uyeyna and said "sennel slaughter".
2889-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever calls for guidance and breaks ground on it, will be rewarded as much as those who follow him, and nothing will be lessened from their rewards. Whoever invites him to a wrong place and makes a breakthrough in that way, the sins of those who follow him will remain the same.” (Muslim, Science: 6) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2890-) Cerir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh)'s father, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever breaks new ground in goodness and is followed by it, will receive as much reward as those who follow him, while he will also receive the rewards of those who follow him." nothing will be lost. Whoever makes a bad move and is followed in this line will gain as much sin as the sins of all, without any lessening from the sins of those who follow him, along with his own sin.” (Muslim, Science: 6) A hadith was also reported from Huzayfa on the subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. b. This hadith was narrated by Abdullah in another way, similar to the one here. This hadith is also related to Munzir b. Jarir b. It was also narrated from Abdullah and his father. Likewise, Ubeydullah b. It is also reported from Cerir and his father.
2891-) Irbad b. According to the narration from Sariye (radiy-Allâhu anh), she said: One day, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave a very effective sermon after the morning prayer, tears were shed from the influence of this sermon, and hearts shuddered. A person from the Companions said: It is like someone's advice, so whatever you advise us, O Messenger of Allah! Said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said: "Listen to Allah at all times and on all grounds, listen to and obey everything that comes from Allah, and listen to and obey the person who is your manager, even if he is an Abyssinian slave. Those who will live among you will witness many separations and disagreements after me. Beware of things that have no place in religion but try to be portrayed as religious, because they are perversion. Whoever of you reaches these periods should hold tight to my sunnah and the sunnah of Hülefai Raşidi, who is on the right path. Be patient and grit your teeth on this road.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 7) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2892-) Sevr b. Yazid, Khalid b. From Ma'dan, Abdurrahman b. Amr b. from es Sülemî to Irbad b. He narrated a similar hadith from Sariye. Hasan b. Ali al Hallal and many others say: Abu Asim, Sevr b. Yazid, Khalid b. From Ma'dan, Abdurrahman b. From Amr es Sülemî, Irbad b. They conveyed a similar hadith to us from Sariye. b. The patronymic of Sariye is Abu Necîh. hadith Hucr b. From Hucur and Irbad b. It is also reported from Sariye in a similar way.
2893-) Amr b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Avf al-Muzeni (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was married to Bilal b. Harise said: "Guess what." Thereupon Bilal said: “What should I know? O Messenger of Allah!” He said, The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever revives and reveals a sunnah that has been removed from my sunnah after me will have as much reward as those who act on that sunnah. The rewards of those who act will not be diminished at all, and whoever reveals a heresy, which is called bidat, which Allah and His Messenger are not pleased with, then the sins of those who act with that bid will be recorded together, and nothing will be lessened from their sins.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 7) This hadith is hasan. b. Uyeyne is from Damascus and Missis. Kesir b. Abdullah ibn Amr b. Avf el Muzeni.
2894-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: “My son, if you can afford to wake up and stay in the evening without harboring malice or hatred in your heart towards anyone, then do it, then he said to me: My son. This is my sunnah, whoever keeps my sunnah will love me, and whoever loves me will be with me in Paradise.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 7) The hadith is longer than this one. This hadith is hasan garib as it is. b. Abdullah al-Ansari and his father are both reliable people. Ali b. Zayd is truthful. However, he narrates a hadith that he narrated from others as maqquf. Muhammed b. I heard from Bashar. He reported from Shu'ba that Abu'l Walid said: Ali b. Zayd told us that this person is a person who makes mawkuf hadiths merfu. b. We know only this hadith with its full text as Musayyeb's narration from Anas, and it is longer than this one. Abbad b. Meysere al-Mınkarî reported this hadith from Ali b. Narrated by Zayd and Enes, in his deed, “Saîd b. He did not mention Musayyeb. The issue is Muhammed b. I took it to Ismail and asked him that he did not know this and Said b. He said that Musayyeb had no knowledge of the narration of this hadith or any other hadith from Anas. Enes b. Malik died in the year ninety-three Hijri. Said b. He died in Musayyeb two years later.
2895-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Leave me as long as I leave you to yourselves. When I announce something to you, take it from me. Because those before you were destroyed because of asking too many questions to their prophets and disagreeing on the orders of their prophets.” (Bukhari, I'tisam: 17; Muslim, Hajj: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2896-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Soon people will run their camels to seek knowledge, but they will not find anyone more knowledgeable than the scholars of Madina.” (Musnad: 7639) This hadith is hasan as the hadith of Ibn Uyeyna. It is reported from Ibn Uyeyna that he said the following about the word "Scholar of Madina". This person said, “Malik b. It could be Enes. b. Moses said: I heard Ibn Uyeyna say: This scholar of Madina: Omari Abdulaziz b. Abdullah ez Zahid. Yahya b. I heard from Musa, he used to say: Abdurrezzak says: That person was Malik b. It could be Enes. Ömerî = Abdulaziz b. Abdullah and Umar b. He is the son of Hattab.
2897-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "It is more difficult for the devil to deceive a scholar who deliberately does something, than to deceive thousands of Abidis." (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 17) This hadith is strange and only in this form, Walid b. We know it as the narration of Muslim.
2898-) Kays b. According to the narration from Kathir (radiyallahu anh), he said: A man came to Abu'd Darda in Damascus from Medina. He also said: O brother, what is the reason that brought you here? The man replied: It is a hadith that I heard from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). Abu'd Darda said, 'Didn't you come for another job? The man said: "No". Abu'd Darda said, 'Did you not come for trade as well? The man said: "No". He said he came only to learn that hadith. Upon this, Abu'd Darda said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "Whoever follows a way to gain knowledge, Allah will guide him to the way to Paradise. Angels lower their wings to please the student of science. For a scholar, the people in the sky and the earth, even the fish in the sea, beg Allah for that scholar's forgiveness. The superiority of a knowledgeable person over someone who worships ignorantly is like the superiority of the Moon over other stars. they are the heirs of the prophets. The prophets left neither dinars nor dirhams; they have only left knowledge as an inheritance. Whoever gets his share of knowledge will have great benefits.” (Ebû Dâvûd, İlim: 17; İbn Mâce, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith was only reported by Asım b. Reca b. We know from Hayve's narration. In my opinion, the script of this hadith is not as complete as it is here. Mahmud b. Hıdaş narrated this hadith to us in the same year. At the same time, this hadith was published by Asim b. Reca b. Hayve, from Walid b. From Cemil, Kesîr b. It was also narrated from Kays and Abu'd Darda, and this narration was transmitted by Mahmud b. It is more authentic than Hıdaş's narration. Muhammed b. Ismail says, "This is more authentic".
2899-) Yazid b. According to a narration from Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “O Messenger of Allah! I've heard many hadiths from you. I'm worried that what I learned next will make me forget the previous ones. I said, tell me something comprehensively. They said: "Try to find your way with Allah's book in everything you know." (Tirmidhi narrated.) The hadith is not conclusive. I think this hadith is mursal. According to me, Ibn Eshva', Yazid b. He did not reach Seleme. Ibn Eshva's name is Said b. Eshva.
2900-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Two traits do not come together in a hypocrite: moral beauty and understanding in religious matters." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Only this old Khalaf b. We know it from the narration of Ayyub al-Amiri. Abu Kureyb and Muhammad b. I have not seen anyone who narrates hadiths from this person other than Ala. I don't even know what kind of person he is.
2901-) According to the narration from Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Two people, one of them an abid and the other a scholar, were mentioned to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The superiority of anyone over another is like my superiority over your lowest rank. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued: Allah and His Angels, the people of the heavens and the earth, even the ants in their nests, even the fish, pray to the one who teaches people good and beneficial things. (Dârimî, Mukaddime: 17) This hadith is strange. Ebû Ammar Huseyn b. I heard from Hurays al-Huzai that he was saying: Fudeyl b. I heard from Iyaz, he said: “The person who knows, acts according to what he knows and teaches others is called a great person in the heavens.”
2902-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A believer will never be satisfied with any good deed that comes to his ears until he enters Paradise.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
2903-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Valuable information is a believer's lost property, and wherever he finds it, he has more right to take it.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 17) This hadith is strange and we know it only in this way. Abraham b. Fadl al Madani al Mahzumi was considered weak in terms of his memory in hadith.
2904-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my soul; You cannot enter Paradise without believing, and you cannot have faith without loving each other. Shall I show you a job that you would love each other if you did it? Spread the greeting among you.” (Muslim, Faith: 17; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 27) Abdullah b. Selam, Şüreyh b. From Hani and his father Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Bara, Anas and Ibn Umar. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2905-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiyallahu anh), a man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said, "Assaalamu Alaikum, may Allah's peace be upon him." The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) also said “Ten”. Another man came, “Assalamu alaikum wa rahmatullahi.” = May the peace and mercy of Allah be upon you. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, “Twenty.” Another man came and said, “Assalamu alaikum wa rahmatullahi wa barakatu” = Peace, mercy and blessings of Allah be upon you. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Thirty". In other words, those who saluted in different ways earned varying amounts of reward. (Darimi, Istizan: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. Ali, Abu Said and Sahl b. Hadith was also narrated from Hunayf.
2906-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Abu Musa said, "Can I enter Essalamu alaikum to enter Umar?" “One,” said Omer. Then he was silent for a while, and can I enter again as-salamu alaikum? She asked. Omar said "Two", then he fell silent for a while and may I enter again, essalamu aleykum? Said. “Three,” said Omar. Then Abu Said returned and left. Omar said what happened to his doorman. “The doorman turned and left,” he replied. Omer said bring him to me. When it comes to you, what is this job you do? She asked. Abu Said replied, "It is Sunnah". Omer: circumcision? said. By Allah, you will bring clear evidence and witnesses for this, or I know what I will do. Abu Said said: Thereupon, Abu Musa came to us and we were sitting with a few friends from the Ansar, O Ansar community! Said; Aren't you the ones who know the hadiths of the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) best? Didn't the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say, "Asking for permission is three times, enter if permission is given, return if not"? Thereupon, the people there started to joke with him. Abu Said said: Then I raised my head towards him and said, "Whatever punishment is given to you in this regard, I will be my partner." Abu Musa reached Umar and informed him of the situation. Then Omar said: "I didn't know that". (Bukhari, Magic' 17: Muslim, Adab: 27) A hadith was also reported from Umm Tariq, the freed slave of Ali and Sa'd. This hadith is hasan. Cerîrî's name is Said b. It is Iyas. He is known as Abu Mas'ud. This hadith was narrated from Abu Nadre, other than Jurayri. The name of Abu Nadre al Abdi, Münzir b. Malik b. It is Kıt'a.
2907-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I asked permission three times to enter the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and he gave me permission." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 127) hadith is hasan garib. The name of Abu Zumeyl is Simâk ul Hanafi. When Abu Musa narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Asking for permission is three times, enter if it is allowed, otherwise come back." And although he was allowed after the third, the only reason he objected to Abu Musa is that: Umar did not know the hadith of the Prophet narrated by Abu Musa: "If you are allowed to enter, if not, come back".
2908-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sitting on one side of the mosque, a man entered the mosque and after performing his prayer, he came and greeted the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said "wa alaika" (Peace be upon you too) and said, "Return and repeat your prayer, you are not considered to have prayed." Then the narrator told the whole of this long hadith. (Bukhari, Adab: 17; Muslim, Salat: 27) This hadith is hasan. Yahya b. Said al-Kattan reported this hadith from Ubeydullah b. He narrated from Omar, Said al Makburi, that he said "from his father and Abu Huraira" in his deed, and "he greeted him" He did not say "wa aleyke" that he received the greeting. Yahya b. Said's narration is more authentic.
2909-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Aisha: “Gabriel said hello to you. Aisha said: “Aleyhisselamu wa rahmatullahi ve barakatuhu” (May Allah's peace, mercy and blessings be upon her).” (Bukhari, Isti'zan: 17; Muslim, Fedailu-us Sahabe: 27) A person from the sons of Numayr narrated hadiths through his father. This hadith is hasan authentic. Zuhri narrated this hadith from Aisha through Abu Salama.
2910-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: O Messenger of Allah! It was said that two men meet, which of them will greet first? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Of those two men, he is the closest to Allah." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 122) This hadith is hasan. Muhammad says: The narration of Abu Ferve er Rehâvi is moderate. However, his son Muhammad b. Yazid narrates munkar hadiths from him.
2911-) Amr b. According to the narration from Shuayb's grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Those who try to imitate us are not from us. Don't be like Jews and Christians, because Jews greet with fingers. The greeting of Christians consists of pointing with the hand.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The proof of this hadith is weak. Ibn Mubarak narrated this hadith from Ibn Lehia without compromising.
2912-) According to the narration from Yasar (radiyallahu anh), he said: While Thabit was walking with Bunani, he passed the children and greeted them, and Sabit said: I was with Enes, he stopped by the children and greeted them. Anas said: I was with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and he stopped by the children and greeted them. (Bukhari, Istizan: 17; Muslim, Selam: 27) This hadith is authentic. Many people narrate this hadith from Thabit. It has also been narrated from Enes in a different way.
2913-) Qutayba, Cafer b. He narrated a similar hadith from Thabit and Anas through Solomon.
2914-) According to the narration from Asma bint Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) passed by the women sitting in the mosque one day and gave a sign of greeting with his hand.” The narrator Abdulahamid showed this gesture of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with his hand. (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 122; İbn Mâce, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan. b. Hanbal: Abdulhamid b. Bahram's Shahr b. His narration from Hawsheb is harmless. Muhammed b. Ismail says: The narration of Shahr is hasan. He is also healthy. It is only Ibn Awn who speaks about him. But Hilal b. from ebî Zeyneb and Şehr b. Narrated by Havsheb. According to what Abu Dawud al Mesahıfi al Belhi reported, Nadr b. Sumayl quotes Ibn Avn as saying: They left the city. Abu Dawud relates to us what Nadr said: They abandoned him and wounded him with their tongues because he had submitted to the sultan's order and followed his path.
2915-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: “My son, when you enter your family, greet them, it will be a blessing for you and your household.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
2916-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The greeting is before speaking."
2917-) In the same vein, it is reported that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do not invite someone to a meal before greeting them." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is munkar. This is the only way we know. I heard from Muhammad saying: Anbese b. Abdurrahman is weak and inconsistent in hadith. Muhammed b. Zazan's narration is munkar.
2918-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not greet Jews and Christians first. When you meet them on the road, force them to pass by the edge of the road.” (Muslim, Selam: 17; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 127) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2919-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), a group of Jews entered the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and greeted him by saying, “Assamu aleyk = you will die and die.” The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) replied, "wa 'alaikum = you die in the same way". Aisha says: I also said that death and curse be upon you. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: O Aisha! He said, "Allah likes to be treated gently in all matters. Aisha: O Messenger of Allah! Didn't you hear what they said? said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, 'I told you, too. (Bukhari, Adab: 17; Muslim, Selam: 27) hadiths were also reported from Abu Nadra al-Gifari, Ibn Omar, Enes and Abu Abdurrahman al-Cuheni. The hadith of Aisha is hasan authentic.
2920-) Usama b. According to the narration from Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stopped by a mixed group of Muslims and Jews and greeted them.” (Bukhari, Adab: 17; Muslim, Jihad: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2921-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “He greets the one who walks with a lot, the one who walks, the one who is walking, and the group that is few.” Ibn al-Musenna also adds the following in his own narration: “The little ones greet the elders.” (Bukhari, Istizan: 17; Muslim, Selam: 27), Abdurrahman b. Şibl, Fedâle b. Hadith was also narrated from Ubayd and Jabir. This hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways. Eyyub es Sahtiyani, Yunus b. Ubayd and Ali b. Zayd says: "Hassan did not hear any hadith from Abu Huraira."
2922-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: last occupant; The few who are more greet the group.” (Bukhari, Istizan: 17; Muslim, Selam: 27) the hadith is hasan sahih.
2923-) Fedâle b. Ubayd (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The one who walks with a lot, the one who walks and the one who stands standing, those who are few greet those who have a lot.” (Musnad: 22814) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Ali al-Cuheni's name was Amr b. He is Malik.
2924-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When one of you arrives at a meeting place, he should greet it and if it is necessary to sit, let him sit there. When he gets up later, let him bow again and leave, because the previous greeting is no more necessary than the next. So both are necessary.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 122) This hadith is hasan. This hadith was also narrated from Ibn Aclan, Said al Makburi from his father and Abu Huraira.
2925-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever enters the house by removing the cover, that is, by opening the door and similar things without permission, and sees a person or place that should not be seen, commits a crime that is not halal and requires punishment. If a man blows his eyes when he is squinting, that person will not be blamed. If a man looks through a door that is not closed and has no curtains, he is not considered guilty, in this case the blame belongs to the owner of the house.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira and Abu Umama. This hadith is strange and we know this hadith in this way only through the narration of Ibn Lehia. The name of Abu Abdurrahman al Hubali was Abdullah b. Yazid.
2926-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was at home, a man looked at him through the hole in the door, and the Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) handed him a sharp-edged tool. withdrew.” (Bukhari, Istizan: 17; Muslim, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2927-) Sahl b. It was narrated from Sa'd es Saidi (radiyallahu anh): "A man looked at the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) through a hole in the cell of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) There was an iron bar he was scratching and he said: If I knew you were looking, I would have stuck this iron in your eye. Because asking permission is made legitimate so that the eye cannot see things that are haram.” (Bukhari, Libas: 27; Muslim, Adab: 17)
2928-) Kilde b. According to the narration from Hanbal (radiyallahu anh), Safwan b. Umayya sent some milk, a mouth and small cucumbers to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was located above the valley, Kilde b. Hanbal said: I entered the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) without asking permission or greeting. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Come back, greet and say can I enter”. This event is after Safwan's conversion to Islam. Amr said: This hadith was told to me by Umayya b. Safwan did not say he heard from Kilde. (Abu Dawud, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only through the narration of Ibn Jurayj. Abu Asim also narrated this hadith from Ibn Jurayc in the same way. sagabis: It can also be an edible plant variety.
2929-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I asked permission to enter the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) because of a debt of my father. And I said "mine". Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) must have disliked this statement so much that he said, "I, me". ((Bukhari, Istizan: 17; Muslim, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2930-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade knocking on the doors of houses at night for some reasons." (Bukhari, Hajj: 17) hadiths were also reported from Anas, Ibn Omar and Ibn Abbas. This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith was narrated by Jabir in different ways. According to the narration of Ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade men to come at night and knock on their wives' doors. Ibn Abbas says: After the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade, two men knocked on their wives' doors at night, and each of them found a man with his own wife.
2931-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you writes a letter, let it be written clearly and legibly because this is the most successful way to meet that need.” (Ibn Majah, Adab: 77) This hadith is munkar. We know only in this way that this hadith is the narration of Abu'z Zubayr. Hamza is Ibn Amr en Nusaybi and is considered weak in hadith.
2932-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and there was a scribe next to him, and I heard him say to him: (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We only know in this way that the proof of this hadith is weak. One of the narrators of the hadith, Anbese b. Abdurrahman and Muhammed b. Zazan is said to be weak in the hadith.
2933-) Zayd b. According to what is reported from Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered me to learn something from the writings of the Jews and said that I cannot trust the Jews with my letters. Zayd b. Thabit said: In less than half a month, I learned the language commanded by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Zayd said: When I learned this language, when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was going to write a letter to the Jews, I would write it, and when the Jews wrote to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), I would read their letter to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). ” (Abu Dawud, Science: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. hadith in other forms as well as Zayd b. It was reported from Sabit. A'meş, Sabit b. From Ubeyd al-Ansari, Zayd b. He narrated from Thabit that he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered me to learn Syriac."
2934-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh): “Before his death, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wrote letters to Kisra, Kayseri, Negus and every cruel ruler, inviting them to Allah. This is Negus; He is not a Negus with whom the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed the funeral prayer.” (Muslim, Jihad: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
2935-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), Abu Sufyan b. War gave notice. Hirakl called Abu Sufyan together with a few people from the Quraysh, they were in Damascus at that time for the purpose of trade. They went to Hirakl and Abu Sufyan explained the issue at length. Abu Sufyan said: After Hirakl, he had the letter of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) brought. The letter was read to him, and it was said in the letter: From Bismillahirrahmanirrahim, Allah's servant and prophet Muhammad to the Greek elder Hırakl; Peace be upon those who follow the guidance... After that..." (Bukhari, Bad-il Vahy: 17; Muslim, Jihad: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Sufyan was Sahr b. It is war.
2936-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted to write letters to other states; It was said that novices do not accept unsealed letters. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had a seal made. Anas said: I can almost see the whiteness of that seal on the palm of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Bukhari, Science: 27; Muslim, Libas: 17) This hadith is hasan.
2937-) Mıkdad b. According to the narration from Aswad (radiyallahu anh), he said: “I came with two of my friends. Our ears were almost deaf and our eyes could not see due to exhaustion and hunger. We started to present our situation to the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). But no one accepted us, so we came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). He took us to his house, and let's see three goats... The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) milked these three goats... We milked those three goats and everyone drank their share. We used to reserve the share of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) for himself, then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) would come at night, greet those who are not asleep, and notify those who are not asleep, then come to the mosque and pray, then come to his drink and drink milk." (Muslim, Esribe: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2938-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): “While the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was breaking his wudu, a man greeted him. But the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not receive his greeting.” (Muslim, Hayz: 17; Nesai, Tahara: 27)
2939-) Muhammed b. Yahya en Neysabûrî, Muhammed b. He narrated a similar hadith from Sufyan and Dahhak through Yusuf in the same document. on the subject Alkame b. Fağva', Câbir, Berâ ve Muhâcir b. Hadith was also narrated from Kunfuz. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2940-) Abu Tamime al-Hujaymi narrated from a person from his tribe as follows: I sought the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) but could not find him, then I sat and waited. Just at that moment, I saw that he was with a group of people, I did not know him, he was in between people. When he finished his work, he stood up with some people. Those people said to Him, O Messenger of Allah! they were calling. Seeing this, I said: "O Messenger of Allah, peace be upon you, O Messenger of Allah, peace be upon you, O Messenger of Allah, peace be upon you = Peace be upon you, O Messenger of Allah! said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) repeated three times, "Alaika's salutation is the greeting given to the dead." Then he turned to me and continued: “When a person meets his Muslim brother; Let him say essalamu alaikum wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuhu.” Then, responding to my greeting, he said: “ve alaika wa rahmatullah, wa alaika wa rahmatullah, wa alaika wa rahmatullah = peace be upon you too and Allah's mercy.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 127) Ebû Gıfar narrated this hadith to us by saying, “I came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) from Ebû Temîme el Hüceymi.” The name of Abu Tamima was Tarîf b. He is Mucalid.
2941-) Jabir b. According to what was narrated from Sulaym (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said, “Aleykessalam”. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Do not say ‘alaikas-salâm’, but say ‘assalamu alaikum’” and told a long story. (Abu Dawud, Adab: 123) hadith is hasan authentic.
2942-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): “When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saluted, he would say three times and when he spoke something he would repeat it three times so that it would be understood well.” (Bukhari, Science: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
2943-) According to the narration from Abu Wakîd al-Leysi (radiy-Allâhu anh): While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sitting with some people in the mosque, three people came, two of them turned to the assembly of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and the other person stayed away. When these two men stood in front of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), they saluted. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) finished his conversation, he said: Shall I inform you about the situation of these three people? Someone took refuge in Allah and Allah sheltered him. The other was ashamed to come among people and sat back so Allah rewarded him for his embarrassment, while the other turned away, and God turned away from him.” (Bukhari, Science: 17; Muslim: Salam: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. Vakîd el Leysi's name is Hâris b. It is Avf. Abu Murra is the freed slave of Abu Talib's daughter Umm Hani. His name is Yazid and Akil b. It is said that he was the freed slave of Abi Talib.
2944-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: "When we came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), each of us would sit where the crowd ended." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 131) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Zuher b. Muawiya also narrated this hadith from Simak.
2945-) According to what is reported from Bara through Abu Ishaq (radiy-Allâhu anh), but Abu Ishaq did not hear this hadith from Bara himself: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stopped by some Ansar sitting on the road and said to them: . If you are going to do the job of sitting on the road, they said "Greetings, help the oppressed and show the way". (Musnad: 17752) hadiths were also narrated from Abu Hurayra and Abu Shurayh al-Huzai. This hadith is hasan garib.
2946-) Berâ b. According to a narration from Azib (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When two Muslims meet and shake hands, Allah will forgive them before they part." (Ibn Mace, Adab: 27) Abu Ishaq's Bera b. This hadith he narrated from Azib is hasan garib. The hadith was narrated from Bara in another way. Eclah's name is Ibn Abdullah b. Huceyye b. He is Adiyy al-Kindi.
2947-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: "A man, O Messenger of Allah! When one of us meets a brother and friend, can he bow to him? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said no. The man asked if he would hug and kiss her, and the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said no. Can the man hold his hand and make a musafaha = clasp? When he said yes, they said yes.” (Ibn Majah, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan.
2948-) According to the narration from Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I asked Anas if there was any handshake among the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and he said yes.” (Bukhari, Istizan: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2949-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "The perfect greeting is to shake hands." (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also reported from Bara and Ibn Umar on the subject. This hadith is garib. Yahya b. We know it as the narration of Sulaym from Sufyan. Muhammed b. I asked Ismail about this hadith. He did not find it acceptable and said: "In my opinion, the hadith narrated by Sufyan from a person who heard it from Mansur, Haysama and Ibn Mas'ud: The night conversation of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) is only a journey that performs prayers at night. for those who He means the hadith. Muhammed b. İsmail continued his words as follows: The hadith "The perfect greeting is to shake hands" is from Mansur, Abu Ishaq, Abdurrahman b. It has been narrated from Yazid and others, and it is as follows: "The perfect greeting is to shake hands."
2950-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Some of the complementary elements of visiting a patient are: If you put your hand on the patient's hand or forehead and ask how he is. The perfect way to greet each other is to shake hands.” (Musnad: 21207) The proof of this hadith is not very solid. says: Ubeydullah b. Zahr is a reliable person. Ali b. Yazid is weak. Kasim b. Abdurrahman, on the other hand, is labeled as Abu Abdurrahman, he is a reliable person and Abdurrahman b. Khalid b. Yazid b. He is the freed slave of Muawiya. Kasim is from Damascus.
2951-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was in my room, Zayd b. Harisa came to him and knocked on the door. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) stood up, even though he was naked from the waist up, dragging his clothes. I have never seen the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) naked like this, neither before nor after. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) hugged his neck and kissed him." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. As Zuhri's narration, we know it only in this way.
2952-) Safwan b. According to the narration from Assal (radiyallahu anh), he said: He said to a Jewish friend: Take us to this prophet. His friend said: Don't call him a prophet because if he heard you call him a prophet, he would be happy and open his eyes. Then they came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and asked about the nine verses given to Moses. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to them: Do not associate anything with Allah, do not steal, do not commit adultery, do not kill a person whom Allah has forbidden to kill, do not take an innocent person to the rulers to be killed, do not engage in magic, do not eat interest. Do not slander a chaste woman of adultery, do not flee from the front on the day of war, do not violate the prohibition on Saturday, only for you Jews. Thereupon, those Jews said, "We bear witness that you are a prophet," and they kissed the hand and foot of the prophet. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Then what prevents you from following me? Safwan said: The Jews said: David always prayed that there would be a prophet from his offspring. If we obey you, we fear that the Jews will kill us.” (İbn Mâce, Edeb: 27) Yazîd b. Esved, Ibn Omar and Ka'b b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2953-) According to the narration from Umm Hani (radiyallahu anha), she said: In the year of the conquest of Mecca, I went to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and found him in a washing condition. Fatima was covering him with a veil. Umm Hani said: I greeted him. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Who is he?" I said: Umm Hani. Thereupon, they said: "Hello, Umm Hani." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is longer than the one here. The hadith is hasan authentic.
2954-) İkrime b. According to a narration from Abu Jahl (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said the day I came to him: "Hello, Muhajir with binit." (Reported by Tirmidhi) hadiths were also narrated from Burayda, Ibn Abbas and Abu Juhayfa. The proof of this hadith is not very solid. In this way, only Musa b. We know it from the narration of Mas'ud from Sufyan. Musa b. Mas'ud is considered weak in the hadith. b. Mahdi narrates this hadith from Sufyan, Abu Ishaq as a mursal and in the document of the hadith, “Mus'ab b. From Sa'd”. This narrative is more solid. Muhammed b. I heard Bashar say: Musa b. Mas'ud is weak in hadith. Muhammed b. Bashar said: Musa b. I wrote a lot about Mas'ud, but I left him afterwards.
2955-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A Muslim has six rights over a Muslim. When he meets, he greets, accepts his invitation, when he sneezes he says alhamdulillah, he says "Yerhamukallah", when he is sick, he visits him, when he dies, he walks after his funeral and loves for his brother what he loves for himself. (Darimi, Istizan: 5; Ibn Mâce, Cenaiz: 43) hadiths were also reported from Abu Hurayra, Abu Ayyub, Bara and Ibn Mas'ud. This hadith is hasan. It has also been narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in different ways. Some hadith scholars have mentioned about Haris al-A'ver.
2956-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A believer has six rights over a believer; He visits him when he is sick, attends his funeral when he dies, accepts his invitation when he is summoned, greets him when he meets him, says "yerhamdulillah" when he sneezes, says "yerhamukallah" when he sneezes, becomes sincere about him in his presence and absence, and continues to advise him. (Nesai, Cenaiz: 12) the hadith is hasan authentic. Muhammed b. Mûsâ el Mahzûmî el Madani is a trusted person, and Abdulaziz b. Muhammad and Ibn Abi Fudayk narrated hadith.
2957-) According to the narration from Nafi' (radiyallahu anh), a man sneezed next to Ibn Umar and said "alhamdu lillah wasamu ala Rasulillah" = Praise be to Allah and peace be upon His Messenger. Thereupon, Ibn Umar said: I say Alhamdulillah wassalamu ala Rasulullah. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not teach us that. He taught us to say “alhamdulillah ala kulli hal” = Praise be to Allah at all times and on all grounds.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Only Ziyad b. We know by the narration of Rabi.
2958-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Jews used to sneeze in the presence of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and wanted him to say to them, “Yerhamukallah = May Allah have mercy on you and have mercy on you. But the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to say to them, "Yehdikumullahu wa yuslihu balekum = May Allah guide you and put your affairs in order." (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 81) Ali, Ebû Eyyûb, Sâlim b. Ubayd, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Jafar and Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2959-) Sâlim b. According to the narration from Ubayd (radiyallahu anh), Salim was on a journey with a group. Then one of them sneezed and said essalamu aleykum = may Allah's peace be upon you. Upon this, Salim replied, greeting you as well. The man who sneezed seemed to be taken away from this word. Salim said: I did not say anything other than what the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied to him, "Peace be upon you and your mother." If someone sneezes, he should say “Alhamdulillahi rabbil alamin = All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the worlds”, and the person who will respond should say “yarhamukallah = May Allah have mercy on you and have mercy on you”, then the person who sneezes should say “Yagfirullahu lana wa lakum = Allah forgive me and you too say '. (Abu Dawud, Adab: 76) There is disagreement in the narration of this hadith from Mansur. Some of them were Hilal b. They put a narrator between Yesaf and Salim.
2960-) According to the narration from Abu Ayyub (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you sneezes, let him say alhamdulillah ala kulli hal = Praise be to Allah at all times and everywhere and the person who will respond is; Let him say yehdikumullah wa yuslih balekum = May Allah guide you and put your affairs in order.” (Ibn Majah, Adab: 17)
2961-) Muhammed b. Müsenna, Muhammed b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Shu'ba, Ibn Abi Layla, through Cafer, with the same deed. He thus narrated this hadith from Ibn Abi Layla and Ayyub. Ibn Abi Layla used to get confused in this hadith and sometimes used to say about Abu Ayyub and the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Sometimes he used to say about Ali and the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam).
2962-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. Yahya b. From Ibn Abi Leyla, from Said el Kattan, from his brother Isa, from Abdurrahman b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Abi Layla and Ali.
2963-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), two men sneezed in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) responded to one of them and did not respond to the other. O Messenger of Allah! said. He asked why you didn't answer me. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He praised Allah; He said alhamdulillah and you didn't say alhamdulillah." (Bukhari, Adab: 17; Muslim, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira.
2964-) According to the narration from Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh) and his father, he said: “A man sneezed in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). I was there too, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said yarhamukallah, then the man sneezed for the second and third times, so the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said that this man had a cold. (Muslim, Zuhd: 17; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2965-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Yahya b. Said by İkrime b. From Ammar, Iyas b. He narrated a similar hadith from Salama and his father, in which the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "The third time, you caught a cold". This narration is stronger than the narration of Ibn al-Mubarak.
2966-) Shu'ba reported this hadith from Ikrima b. Ammar through Yahya b. He narrated it similarly to the narration of Said. Likewise, Ahmad b. Hakim al Basrî, Muhammed b. From Shu'be through Cafer, Ikrima b. He narrated from Ammar in this way.
2967-) Abdurrahman b. Mahdi Ikrima b. He narrated from Ammar in a similar way to the narration of Ibn al-Mubarak and said, "You had a cold the third time". as Ishaq b. Mansur, Abdurrahman b. He narrated this hadith through the Mahdi.
2968-) Omar b. Ishaq b. According to the narration from the mother and father of Abu Talha (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Reply a person who sneezes three times, if you wish, you will respond if you wish, if you wish, you will not.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 28) This hadith is strange. His isnad is unknown.
2969-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh); “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sneezed, he would cover his face with his hand or a piece of his clothing and lower his voice.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 28) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2970-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Sneezing is from Allah, and yawning is from Satan. When one of you yawns, put his hand over his mouth. The moment he yawns, the devil laughs at him when he says hah hah. Allah likes to sneeze and does not like to yawn. If a person says hah hah while yawning, the devil will laugh at him in his heart.” (Bukhari, Bedilhalk: 27; Muslim, Zuhd: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2971-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah likes sneezing and does not like yawning. When one of you sneezes, say alhamdulillah. In this case, it is necessary to say "yarhamukallah" to every one who hears him. When it comes to yawning, when one of you yawns, he should try to fend it off as much as he can and not say hah hah, because this hah hah sound is from the devil. That's why the devil laughs." (Bukhari, Bedilhalk: 27; Muslim, Zuhd: 17) This hadith is authentic. The narration is stronger than the narration of Ibn Aclan. Because Ibn Abi Zi'b is more advanced than Ibn Aclan in understanding and determining Said al Makburi's narration. I have heard from Bekir el Atar al Basrî. Ali b. al Medîni through Yahya b. Said said: "Muhammad b. Aclan said: As for the hadiths of Said al Makburi... Said narrated some of them from Abu Huraira himself, and some from a man from Said and Abu Hurayra. Since these seemed confusing to me, I narrated them all from Said and Abu Huraira.
2972-) Adiy b. According to the narration he made from his father and grandfather, Thabit (radiyallahu anh) said: "Sneezing, sneezing, yawning, menstruation, vomiting and nosebleeds in prayer are from the devil." (Ibn Majah, Ikametussalat: 47) This hadith is strange. We know this hadith only from Sharik's narration from Abu'l Yakazan. Muhammed b. İsmail'e Adıyy b. I asked Sabit's father and grandfather about his narration and I said what is the name of Adiyy's grandfather. “I don't know,” he replied. Yahya b. I asked Maîn his name; He said it is Dinar.
2973-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "None of you should remove a religious brother from his seat and then sit there!" (Bukhari, Friday: 60; Muslim: Salam: 43) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2974-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “None of you should lift a brother from where he is sitting and then sit on that place himself.” (Bukhari, Friday: 60; Muslim: Salam: 43) This hadith is authentic. says: If someone got up and gave Ibn Umar a place, Ibn Umar would not sit there. This hadith is authentic.
2975-) Vehb b. According to a narration from Huzayfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A person is more worthy of his seat. If he gets up for a need and then comes back again, he is more worthy of sitting on that place.” (Musnad: 14936) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. A hadith was also narrated from Abu Bakr, Abu Said and Abu Huraira.
2976-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "It is not permissible for anyone to come between two people without their permission and separate them." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 17) hadith is hasan. Âmir b. In Ahvel, this hadith is narrated by Amr b. He narrated from Shuayb.
2977-) According to the narration from Abu Miclez (radiyallahu anh); “A man sat in the middle of a circle at a ring meeting place. Thereupon, Huzayfa said: Sitting in the middle of the ring; He was cursed with the tongue of Muhammad, or Allah cursed him with the tongue of Muhammad.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 18) This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Midez was Lahik b. He is Hamid.
2978-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “There was no one more beloved to the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) than the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) but when they saw him, they knew he disliked standing up for himself. They wouldn't stand up for it." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih in this form.
2979-) According to the narration from Abu Miclez (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Muawiya came out, Abdullah b. Zubayr and Safwan stood up when they saw him. Thereupon, Muwiya said: "Sit down". Because I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "Whoever makes people happy to stand up for him, let him get ready for his place in the fire." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 52) hadiths were also reported from Abu Umama. This hadith is hasan.
2980-) Hennad, through Abu Usama, Habib b. He narrated a similar hadith from al-Shaheed, Abu Miclez and Muawiya.
2981-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Five things have been going on since the beginning of creation; pubic shaving, circumcision, trimming mustaches, shaving armpit hair, and trimming nails.” (Bukhari, Libas: 39; Muslim, Tahara: 52) This hadith is hasan authentic.
2982-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: shortening the mustache, growing the beard, using the miswak, cleaning the nose, clipping the nails, cleaning between the fingers and knuckles, cleaning the armpit hair, shaving the pubic hair and taking a bath with water. says: Mus'ab said: "I forgot the tenth one, maybe it's rinsing the mouth." (Muslim, Tahara: 17; Nesai, Ziyne: 27) Ubayd says: In the hadith; “İtikasul ma`” means to make a bidet with water. On the subject of Ammar b. Hadith was also narrated from Yasir, Ibn Omar and Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan.
2983-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) determined the longest period for trimming nails, trimming the mustache, and shaving the groin and armpits as forty days. ” (Muslim, Tahara: 17; Nesai, Ziyne: 27)
2984-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had appointed to shorten the mustache, to trim the nails, and not to extend it for more than forty days when shaving the armpits and groin.” (Muslim, Tahara: 17; Nesai, Tahara: 27) This hadith is more authentic than the previous one. Charity b. Moses was not a hafiz in the company of hadith scholars.
2985-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to shorten his mustache or remove it from his mustache, and Abraham, the friend of Allah, used to do the same." (Musnad: 2602) This hadith is hasan garib.
2986-) Zayd b. According to a narration from Erkam (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “He who does not remove his mustache and shortens it is not one of us.” (Nesai, Tahara: 27) Muğîre b. A hadith was also reported from Shu'ba. This hadith is hasan authentic.
2987-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Yahya b. Said by Yusuf b. He narrated a similar hadith from Suheyb in the same deed.
2988-) Amr b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Shuayb (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to shave his beard from the width and length of his beard.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. b. I heard from Ismail that he was saying: Umar b. Harun's narration is moderate. I don't know of any hadith that he narrated other than the one that is not original or that he narrated alone: "The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to take it from the width and length of the beard." Only Umar b. Aaron narrated alone. Bukhari, Umar b. I saw him as good-sighted about Aaron. I heard Qutayba say: 'Umar b. Although Harun was a hadithist, he used to say: "Faith consists of words and experiences."
2989-) Qutayba also said: Wakî' b. Cerrâh through a man Sevr b. From Yazid: “He informed us that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used catapult against the people of Taif.” Kutayba continued his words as follows: Who is this man to Vekî'e? I asked your man Umar b. He said it was Aaron.
2990-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Shorten the mustache and let the beard loose." (Bukhari, Libas: 27; Muslim, Tahara: 17) This hadith is authentic.
2991-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us to shorten the mustaches and leave them on their beards.” (Bukhari, Libas: 27; Muslim, Tahara: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Bakr b. Nafi' is the freed slave of Ibn Umar and is a reliable person. Umar b. Nafi is also a trusted person. Abdullah, son of Nafi, the freedman of Ibn Omar, is known as weak by hadith scholars.
2992-) Abbad b. According to the narration from Tamim's (radiy-Allâhu anh) uncle: He himself; “He saw the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) lying on his back in the mosque, with one foot on the other.” (Bukhari, Salat: 27; Muslim, Libas: 17) This hadith is hasan. b. Tamim's uncle, Abdullah b. Zayd b. Asim al Mazini.
2993-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you lies on his back, if his underwear is not properly dressed, he should not put his feet on his feet.” (Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 27) many people have narrated the hadith from Süleyman et Taymi. We do not know who Hıdaş, one of the narrators, is. Süleyman et Taymi narrated another hadith from this person.
2994-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade us to wear two kinds of clothes, which is called “Samma”; It is a jumpsuit-like dress that covers the body from head to toe so that the arms remain in the dress. He also forbade lying on his back and crossing his feet to show his private parts. (Muslim, Libas: 17; Nesai, Ziyne: 27) This hadith is authentic.
2995-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a man lying on his face and said: "This type of sleeping is a way of lying that Allah does not like." (Musnad: 7698) hadiths were also narrated from Tahfa and Ibn Omar. Yahya b. Ebî Katîr reported this hadith from Ebû Salama, Yeiş b. He narrates from Tihfe from his father. It is also said that this person is "Tıhfe". The correct one is "Tihfa". Some hadith memorizers say that the correct one is “Tıhfe” and even it is called “Tığfe”. Yeish is a Companion.
2996-) Behz b. Hakim (radiyallahu anh) said in a narration from his grandfather: “O Messenger of Allah! I said, I said, against whom should we cover our places that need to be covered, they said: "Cover the places that need to be covered against everyone other than your wife and concubine." When a man asks what should be covered if he is with a man: "Try not to show anyone your private parts as much as you can!" Then I said what should a person do when he is alone; They said, "The person most deserving of being ashamed of is Allah". (Ibn Majah, Nikah: 27) This hadith is hasan. His grandfather's name was Muawiya b. Hayde el Kuşeyrî and Cerîri Behz's father Muaviye b. He narrated a hadith from Hakim.
2997-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) leaning on a pillow on his left side." (Abu, Dâvûd, Libas: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. Many people have heard this hadith from Israel, Simak, Jabir b. Narrated by Samura, he says, "I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) leaning on a pillow" and does not say "on his left side".
2998-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I saw the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) leaning on a pillow." (Abu Dawud, Libas: 88) the hadith is authentic.
2999-) According to the narration from Abu Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A person cannot be an imam in a place within his authority, nor can he sit in his chair without his permission." (Nesai, Imame: 18; Ebnu Davud, Salat: 48) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3000-) According to the narration from Abu Buraydah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “While the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was walking, a man with his donkey approached the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and said: “O Allah! 's Messenger! thousand, and he himself stepped back from the donkey's back. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: You are more worthy to ride on the front of the animal, but if you have reserved it for me, it is different. When the man said: I have reserved it for you, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got on. (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 27) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Qays b. Sa'd b. A hadith was also narrated from Ubade.
3001-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: "Do you have embroidered clothes and coverings? And I said, where do we get such things? Thereupon, you will have such things in the future.” Now, I say to my wife, keep the embroidered luxury things away from me, didn't she say that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said that you will have such things? He says, so I give up on that promise. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Libas: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3002-) Iyas b. According to the narration from Salama's father, he said: "I brought the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and Hasan and Husayn on their gray mule to the room of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). One of these children was in front of him and the other was behind him.” (Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 27) Ibn Abbas and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Jafar. As such, this hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3003-) Cerir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) the ruling on looking at a woman; He ordered me to avert his eyes from him immediately.” (Muslim, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ebû Zür'a b. Amr's name is Herîm.
3004-) Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated from his father as a merfu: “O Ali, suddenly looking at foreign women! Then do not hold on to your gaze, for even if the previous gaze has been granted to you, you are not entitled to the next gaze.” (Abu Dawud, Nikah: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only through the narration of Sharik.
3005-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anh), she said: While I was with Maymuna, a blind person named Umm Maktum came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and entered this event after the verses of covering the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered us not to appear to him and to beware of him. Me too, O Messenger of Allah! I said he can't see eyes and can't recognize us. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "Are you also blind, can't you see him?" he commanded. (Abu Dawud, Libas: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3006-) Amr b. It was narrated from the freedman of As. Amr b. Asma sent her freedman to Ali and asked permission to visit Esma bint Umeysi. He was allowed. Amr b. When Âs completed his visit, his freedman Amr b. He asked As the reason for this permission, and Amr said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade us from visiting women without their husbands' permission.” (Musnad: 18099) Ukba b. Âmir, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr and Jabir. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3007-) Usama b. Zayd and Said b. Zayd b. Amr b. According to the narration from Nufayl (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I have left no more harmful element of fitna for men than women.” (Bukhar, Nikah: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. From Suleyman et Taymi, Abu Osman and Usama b. It has been narrated to us from Zayd, and in the deed of this narration, “Saîd b. Zayd b. Amr b. He did not say "From Nufeyl". Apart from Mu'temir, “Usama b. Zayd and Said b. We do not know anyone who says "From Zayd". A hadith was also narrated from Abu Said.
3008-) Ibn ebî Ömer, from Süleyman et Taymi through Sufyan, from Abu Osman, from Usama b. He narrated a similar hadith from Zayd to us.
3009-) Humayd b. Abdurrahman (radiyallahu anh) told us that he heard the following in Medina, addressing the people: “O people of Medina! Where are your scholars? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade using wigs and said: "The women of the children of Israel were destroyed when they started this wig business." (Bukhari, Ahadith-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Libas: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has been reported in different ways.
3010-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh); “Those who change the shape created by Allah so that we will be beautiful and get tattoos done, women who pluck their facial hairs; The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) cursed him.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Libas: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. and many hadith imams have narrated this hadith from Mansur.
3011-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Allah; Cursed be those who put hair on his hair and give it to someone else to make wigs, tattoo or have tattoos done.” Nafi': He said that tattoos are mostly on the chin area that attracts attention. (Bukhari, Libas: 17; Muslim, Libas: 27) the hadith is hasan sahih. Âisha, Ma'kil b. Hadith is also narrated from Yasar, Esma bint Abi Bakr, and Ibn Abbas.
3012-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Yahya b. Said by Ubeydullah b. They conveyed a similar hadith to us from Umar, Na'fi, and Ibn Umar, and they did not mention Nafi's word. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3013-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed those who try to imitate women and those who try to imitate women." (Bukhari, Libas: 27; Dârimî, Libas: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3014-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) cursed those who try to disguise themselves as women and those who try to become men among women.” (Bukhari, Libas: 27; Dârimî, Libas: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith was also narrated from Aisha on this subject.
3015-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Every eye has committed adultery by looking at a foreign woman. If a woman walks past men while wearing perfume, it is as if she has committed adultery, just like the men who look at her.” (Dârimî, Istizan: 27) hadiths were also narrated from Abu Hurayra. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3016-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The smell of the fragrance on which men apply, but it has no color, but the smell of women should have a color, but its smell should not be noticed by others.” (Nesai, Ziyne: 27)
3017-) Ali b. Hucr, İsmail b. They conveyed a similar hadith to us in terms of meaning from Jureyri, Abu Nadre, Tufavi and Abu Huraira through Ibrahim. This hadith is hasan. We know Tufavi only through this hadith, and we do not know his name. Ismail b. Ibrahim's narration is stronger and longer.
3018-) Imran b. According to a narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: “The best fragrances for men are those that have a light scent and a hidden color. The best of women's scents are those that are light in color and that are visible and the scent does not spread to the environment. Again, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the use of red-colored camel saddle pads.” (Abu Dawud, Libas: 27) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
3019-) Sümâme b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: “Anas would not reject the fragrance offered to him. Anas said: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not reject fragrance.” (Bukhari Hajj: 27) hadiths were also reported from Abu Hurayra. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3020-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: pillows, fragrance and milk.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.) = It means a nice smell. This hadith is garib. Ibn Muslim ibn Jundeb is from Medina.
3021-) According to the narration from Abu Osman an Nahdi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If anyone of you is given basil, let him not reject it, because he has come out of Paradise.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib and we know it only as it is. We know the narrator named Hennan only through this hadith. The name of Abu Osman en Nehdi was Abdurrahman b. It's Müllin. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) reached his time, but he did not see him and he was not heard from in the hadith.
3022-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A woman should not touch a woman's body and be together, and she should not describe her body to her husband as if she is seeing that woman." (Bukhari, Nikah: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Nikah: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3023-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A man should not look at the forbidden private parts of a man, and a woman should not look at a woman's private parts. A man should not be snuggled into a man while lying in a blanket. A woman should not be snuggled into a woman while she is lying in a blanket, and their bodies should not touch each other.” (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 17) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
3024-) Behz b. Hakim (radiyallahu anh) said in a narration from his grandfather: “O Messenger of Allah! I said, I said, against whom should we cover our places that need to be covered, they said: "Cover the places that need to be covered against everyone other than your wife and concubine." When a man asks what should be covered if he is with a man: "Try not to show anyone your private parts as much as you can!" Then I said what should a person do when he is alone; They said, "The person most deserving of being ashamed of is Allah". (Ibn Majah, Nikah: 27) This hadith is hasan.
3025-) According to what was reported from Cerhed (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) passed by Cerhed, whose thigh was exposed in the mosque, and said that the thigh is considered private (cover).” (Abu Dawud, Hamam: 27) This hadith is hasan. I do not think that the script of this hadith is mutual.
3026-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The thigh is considered one of the private parts.” (It should be covered.) (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3027-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from the father of Cerhed al-Aslemi (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The thigh is considered one of the private parts.” (Abu Dawud, Hamam: 17) The hadith is hasan garib in this form. Ali, Muhammed b. Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Jahsh. b. Jahsh's son is both Companions.
3028-) According to the narration from Cerhed (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) passed by Cerhed and Cerhad’s thigh was exposed. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: ” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan.
3029-) Salih b. According to the narration from Hasan (radiyallahu anh), he said: Said b. I heard Musayyeb say: “God is beautiful, he loves beautiful things; is clean, loves things that are clean; is gracious; loves those who offer; He is generous, loves those who are generous. Just like your houses - I think your yards - keep them clean. Don't be like the Jews." One of the narrators of the hadith said: This hadith was reported by Muhajir b. I told Mismar about it, and he said: I told this hadith to Amir b. Sa'd b. Ebi Vakkâs conveyed it to us through his father, as here, but he removes the doubt and says: "Keep your courtyards clean". (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is garib. Khalid b. It is said that Ilyas is weak in the hadith.
3030-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Avoid standing naked. Because there are angels who do not separate from you, but leave while you are breaking your wudu and having sexual intercourse with your wife, be ashamed of them and be respectful to them.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 17; Muslim, Fezail: 27) This hadith is strange. This is the only way we know. Muhayyat's name is Yahya b. It is Ya'la.
3031-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should not enter the bath without a loincloth. He who believes in Allah and the Last Day should not let his wife enter the bath. Those who believe in Allah and the Last Day should not sit at the tables where they drink alcohol. (Musnad: 14124) This hadith is hasan garib. This is the only way we know that this hadith is the narration of Tawus from Jabir. b. Ismail said: Leys b. Abi Sulaym is a righteous person. But sometimes he has delusions about something Muhammad b. Ismail and Ahmed b. Hanbal says: One cannot rejoice in the incident reported by Lays. Leys is considered weak in terms of conveying things that cannot be merfu as merfu.
3032-) Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) reported: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade men and women from going to the bathhouse. He later allowed them to enter the bath on the condition that they use loincloths.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Hamam: 17) This hadith is only Hammad b. We know from the narration of Salama. It's not very solid either.
3033-) According to the narration from Abu'l Melih al-Huzeli (radiyallahu anh), some women from the people of Hims and Damascus entered Aisha and said to them: You are such women that you go to the baths. I, on the other hand, heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "If a woman takes off her clothes in a place other than her husband's house, she will have torn the veil of haya between her and her Lord." (Abu Dawud, Hamam: 27) This hadith is hasan.
3034-) According to the narration from Abu Talha (radiyallahu anh), he says: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: "Angels do not enter a house where there is a dog, painting or statue." (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 27; Muslim, Libas: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3035-) Rafî' b. According to what Ishaq reported, he said: I and Abdullah b. We went to visit Ebî Talha Ebû Said al-Khudri because of his illness. Abu Said al-Khudri said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) informed us as follows: "Angels do not enter a house that contains paintings and statues." Ishaq doubts whether he said painting or sculpture.” (Musnad: 11326) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3036-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Gabriel came to me and said: I came to you last night. Until now, there was no obstacle for me to enter the house you are in, but there was a curtain with pictures of people on the cover of the door of the house, there was a wall cover with pictures and embroideries in the house, and there was a dog in the house. Now order the head of the picture on the door cover to be cut off, then that shape looks like a tree. An order should be given for the wall covering, and the cushions that are thrown and trampled should be made from those pieces. Order for the dog to be thrown out of that house. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did all of these. The dog was a puppy that Hasan and Hussein played with, he ordered it and the dog was removed.” (Nesai, Ziyne: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Hadith was also narrated from Aisha and Abu Talha.
3037-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he said: "A man wearing a red dress consisting of two upper and lower parts passed by and greeted the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not receive his greeting." (Abu Dawud, Libas: 27) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. The meaning of this hadith is as follows: It is not acceptable for men to wear a dress dyed red in a striking way, it is okay to wear a dress dyed with reddish colors in a way that does not attract attention.
3038-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the use of gold rings, silk garments, the striking pillow used in the saddles of animals, and Cea.” Abu'l Ahvas: “Cea” is a drink made from barley in Egypt. (Muslim, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3039-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us seven things and forbade seven things: “What he commanded: Attending a funeral, visiting the sick, saying yarhamukallah if a sneezing person says alhamdulillah, accepting the invitation, helping the oppressed, affirming the person who took an oath. What they prohibit are: Using gold rings (for men), using different things made of gold, eating and drinking from gold and silver vessels, wearing silk clothes, wearing dibâc, istebrak and personal dresses made of silk fabric” (These are underwear or clothes of different thickness worn outside. .) (Bukhari, Janaiz: 27; Muslim, Libas: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih. b. Sulaym = Eş'as b. Ebi'ş Şasa. His name is Sulaym b. It is Esved.
3040-) Samura b. According to a narration from Jundub (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “Wear white clothes because white is cleaner and more pleasant. Wrap your dead in a white shroud.” (Ibn Majah, Libas: 18) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith was also narrated from Ibn Abbas and Ibn Umar on the subject.
3041-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) on a moonlit night, and I started looking at the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and the moon. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was wearing a red dress at that moment, which was more beautiful to me than the moon.” (Dârimî, Mukaddime: 56) This hadith is hasan garib. We know only from the story of Eş'as.
3042-) Shu'be and Sevrî, through Abu Ishaq, to Bara b. Narrated from Azib, he said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wearing a red dress." as Mahmud b. Gaylan narrated this hadith from Sufyan and Abu Ishaq through Waki'. b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. This is how they narrated it from Shu'ba, Abu Ishaq, through Jafar. The hadith is longer than this one. I asked. Is it the narration of Abu Ishaq from Bara or Jabir b. Is Samura's narration more solid? He found these two hadiths to be sound. A hadith has also been narrated from Bara and Abu Juhayfa on this subject.
3043-) According to the narration from Abu Rimsa (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wearing two green dresses." (Nesai, Salat-ül Iyd: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Libas: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Ubeydullah b. We know from the narration of Iyad. The name of Abu Rimse et Taymi was Habib b. Hayyan, Rifaa b. It is also called Yesribi.
3044-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came out of the house one morning wearing a black dress." (Muslim, Libas: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Libas: 17) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
3045-) According to a narration from Kayle bint Mahrema (radiy-Allâhu anha), he said: We came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Kayle told the hadith at length, finally a man came and the sun had risen. That man said: O Messenger of Allah! he said hello to you. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "May Allah's peace and mercy be upon you as well, he was wearing a yellowish old garment (referring to the Prophet). He also had a date stick in his hand.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Haraç: 27) The hadith of Kayle was only reported by Abdullah b. We know with the narration of Hassan.
3046-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the use of saffron, which is a kind of perfume for men. (Bukhari, Libas: 27; Muslim, Libas: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3047-) Shu'be reported this hadith from Ismail b. From Uleyye, Abdulaziz b. From Suhayb and Anas: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade the use of saffron." as Ubeydullah b. Abdurrahman narrated a similar hadith from Shu'ba through Adam. The prohibition of saffron for men is due to the prohibition of this type of perfume.
3048-) Ya'la b. According to the narration from Murra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw a man who was wearing a perfume called Haluk and said: “Go wash it, then wash it again and do not use it again!” (Nesai, Ziyne: 17) This hadith is hasan. Ata b. They differed about this isnad from Saib. Ali, Yahya b. Narrated by Said, he said: Kim Ata b. If he has heard a hadith from Saib before, his narration is more accurate. Shu'be and Sufyan's Âta b. It is true what they heard from Saib. However, Âta b. Except for the two hadiths transmitted from Zazan through Saib, Shu'ba said, "I had heard these two hadiths from him recently. Ata b. It is said that Saib's memory was impaired towards the end of his life. Hadiths were also narrated from Ammar, Abu Musa, Anas, Abu Hafs, and Ibn Omar.
3049-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard Umar reminded him that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever wears silk in this world, he will not be able to wear it in the Hereafter.” (Muslim, Libas: 17) hadiths were narrated from Ali, Huzeyfe, Enes and many Companions and were mentioned in the clothing section of our book. This hadith is hasan authentic. It was also narrated from Umar in other ways. The name of the freed slave of bint ebî Bekir es Siddik is Abdullah. He is known as Abu Amr. b. Abi Rebah and Amr b. Dinar narrated hadith from him.
3050-) Misver b. According to the narration from Mahrema (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) distributed caftans and Misver b. He didn't give anything to Mahreme. Thereupon, Mahrema said: O my son, get up and let's go to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Misver said: I went with him, and when he reached the door of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he said, 'Come in and call the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) to me. So I called the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came out, wearing one of the caftans he had distributed. He said, "I kept this for you." Mahreme's son Misver said: "Mahrame looked at that robe and said Mahreme was satisfied." (Bukhari, Grant: 17; Muslim, Zakat: 27) This hadith is hasan. Abî Mülayke's name is Abdullah b. Ubeydullah b. Ebi Müleyke.
3051-) Amr b. According to a narration from his father and grandfather, Shuayb (radiyallahu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Allah loves to see the work of His blessings on His servant." (Tirmidhi narrated.) From the father of Abu'l Ahvas, Imran b. Hadith was also narrated from Husayn and Ibn Mas'ud. This hadith is hasan.
3052-) According to the narration from Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh): “He gave two black mests to the Negus Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) wore them. Then he made wudu and wiped over him.” (Abu Dawud, Tahara: 27) This hadith is hasan. We know this hadith through the narration of Delhem. hadith of Muhammad b. Rabia narrated from Delhem.
3053-) Amr b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Shuayb (radiyallahu anh): "The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) forbade pulling out white hairs and said that this is the light of a Muslim." (Ibn Majah, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan. Abdurrahman b. Haris and many people related this hadith to Amr b. They narrated from Shuayb.
3054-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The person consulted is the person who can be trusted.” (Abu Dawud, Etima: 27) This hadith is hasan. Many people refer to this hadith as Shayban b. They narrated from Abdurrahman an Nahvi. Shayban is an author who wrote a book, and his narrations are authentic. He is known as Abu Muawiya. b. Ala el Attar, Sûfyan b. He told us from Uyeyne: Abdulmalik b. Umair said: "When I narrate a hadith, I do not subtract a letter from that hadith."
3055-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The person consulted is the person who is trusted.” (Abu Dawud, Etima: 27) hadiths were also narrated from Ibn Mas'ud, Abu Huraira and Ibn Omar. As the narration of Umm Salama, this hadith is strange.
3056-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: The belief in bad luck (in the era of ignorance) was considered to exist in three things; woman, dwelling and binit (but there is no such thing in Islam.) (Bukhari, Nikah: 27; Muslim, Selam: 17) This hadith is authentic. Some of Zühri's men do not say "From Hamza" in the deed of this hadith, they say "From Sâlim and Sâlim's father". b. Anas narrates this hadith from Zuhri and says: Sâlim and Hamza, Abdullah b. Omar's two sons - they narrated from their father. Likewise, Ibn Abi Omar tells us this hadith; Sufyan b. From Uyeyne, Zuhri and Abdullah b. from Omar's two sons, Hamza and Salim; narrated from their fathers and the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam).
3057-) Said b. Abdurrahman narrated a similar hadith from Zuhri, from Sâlim, from his father, through Sufyan. Said's narration is more solid. Because Ali al-Madin and Humaydi both narrated from Sufyan, Zuhri, Salim and his father. Sufyan reminded us as follows: He narrated this hadith to us through Zuhri Salim and Ibn Umar. He narrated this hadith from Zuhri and said: b. He said that Ömer's two sons, Salim and Hamza, are from their father. about Sahl b. Hadith was also narrated from Sa'd, Aisha and Anas. It is also narrated from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "If bad luck had happened, the woman would have been in a bin and at home."
3058-) Hakim b. According to what is reported from Muawiya, he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: There can never be bad luck and there is no luck. b. Hucr, İsmail b. Through Ayyaş, Süleyman b. From Suleym, Yahya b. From Câbir et Taî, Muaviye b. From Hakîm to his uncle, Hakîm b. He narrated from Muawiya as here.
3059-) According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When you are three people, two people should not talk in whispers apart from their other friends.” In the narration of Sufyan, he says: "Do not let two people speak in a whisper apart from the third, this act will upset him." (Bukhari, Istizan: 16; Muslim, Selam: 53) This hadith is hasan authentic. It was also narrated that he said: "Do not let two people speak in a whisper, leaving one person alone, because this action will hurt that believer. Allah does not like when a believer is hurt. Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Ibn Umar, Abu Huraira and Ibn Abbas.
3060-) According to the narration from Abu Juhayfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) with white skin and gray hair. Ali's son Hasan was also similar to him. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered thirteen camels to be given to us, so we went to get them. When the news of the death of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) came, they did not give us anything. Bakr got up and said, Whoever has a promise or something to be received by the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) should come immediately. I explained the situation to him. Abu Bakr ordered that these camels be given to us.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fadail: 17) This hadith is hasan. b. Muawiyah narrated this hadith in a similar way from Abu Juhayfa with his own deed. Many people like Ismail b. He narrated that Abu Juhayfa said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and Ali's son Hasan was similar to himself.” They did not add anything else to this statement.
3061-) According to the narration from Abu Juhayfa (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and Hasan, son of Ali, was like him." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Hajj: 42) Many people refer to this hadith as Ismail b. They narrated from Abu Khalid in a similar way to the one here. Abu Juhayfe's name is Vehb es Suvai.
3062-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: I've never heard him say that he should sacrifice both his mother and father together for someone other than Ebî Vakkâs, only for Sa'd.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 28; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahaba: 17)
3063-) The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Sa'd b. He did not sing together saying that his father and mother should be sacrificed for anyone except ebî Vakkâs; On the day of the Battle of Uhud, he would say to him: "May my parents be sacrificed for you, shoot your arrows at the polytheists" and say: "O brave young man, throw your arrows." (Bukhari, Jihad: 28; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 17) hadiths were also reported from Zubayr and Jabir. This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Ali in different ways. Many people refer to this hadith as Yahya b. From Said, Said b. From Müseyyeb, Sa'd b. Narrated by Abu Wakkas, they said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said his parents together for me on the day of Uhud and said, "May my parents be sacrificed for you, shoot your arrows."
3064-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Ebî Vakkâs (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) brought his parents together for me on the day of Uhud, saying they would be sacrificed.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 17) the hadith is hasan authentic.
3065-) According to the narration from Enes (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to Enes; he would address me, O my son. (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 27) Muğîre and Ömer b. A hadith has also been narrated from Abi Salama. As such, this hadith is hasan sahih garib. This hadith was also narrated from Anas in another way. Abu Osman is an old and reliable person, he was called Ca'd b. Also called Osman. It is said in Ibn Dinar, he is from Basra. Yunus b. Ubayd and many hadith imams narrated hadith.
3066-) Amr b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Shuayb (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered that the newborn child be named on the seventh day, that the torture should be removed from the child, and that the aqqah sacrifice should be sacrificed." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3067-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The most beloved names to Allah are Abdullah and Abdurrahman.” (Muslim, Adab: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
3068-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The most beloved names to Allah are Abdullah and Abdurrahman." (Muslim, Adab: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 17) The hadith is strange in this form.
3069-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "I will forbid the naming of Rafi', Bereket and Yasar." (Muslim, Adab: 17) This hadith is strange. Ahmad narrated this hadith from Sufyan, Abu'z Zubayr, Jabir and Umar in the same way. Others from him narrated from Sufyan, Abu'z Zubayr and Jabir. Abu Ahmet is a trusted person and a hafiz. In the narration of this hadith, which is famous among the people, by Jabir, it was not called "from Omar".
3070-) Samura b. According to the narration from Jundub (radiyallahu anh); The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not name your child Rebah, Eflah, Yesar and Nacih! Then for a person with this name, “Is he there?” is asked and it is said, "None". (Muslim, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3071-) Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “The worst of names in the sight of Allah on the Day of Judgment is the person who was given property, king of kings, sultan of sultans.” Sufyan says: "Shahan shah" means the sultan of sultans. “Ahneu” means the worst.” (Muslim, Adab: 27; Muslim, Adab: 17)
3072-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) changed the female name "Asiye" (who rebelled against Allah) to "Jamile" (beautiful). (Bukhari, Maghazi: 27; Muslim, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. b. Said al-Kattan is the only person who narrates this hadith from Ubaydullah, Nafi, and Ibn Umar as musnad. Others have narrated this hadith from Ubeydullah and Nafi as "Omar" as a musnad. In this regard, Abdurrahman b. Avf, Abdullah b. Salam, Abdullah b. Mutı', Aisha, Referee b. Sa'd, Muslim, Usama b. Ahderî, Süreyh b. From Hani's father, Hayseme b. Hadith was narrated from Abdurrahman and his father.
3073-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to change ugly names." (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3074-) Abu Bakr b. Nafi' said: 'Umar b. Ali is sometimes mentioned in this hadith; Hisham b. He narrated it as a mursal saying from his father through Urve and did not mention "Aisha" in his deed.
3075-) Cübeyr b. According to the narration from the father of Mut'im (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: I have names: “I am Muhammad = a praised person; I am Ahmed=I am the most praised person: I am Mahi=I am the destroyer, Allah will destroy the disbelief with me: I am Hashir=People will be resurrected after me; I am Aqib=I am the last, there will be no prophet after me. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) hadiths were also reported from Huzeyfe. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3076-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); “by bringing together a person's own name and tag; He forbade giving the name "Muhammad Abu'l Qasim." (Bukhari, Science: 27; Muslim, Adab: 17) hadiths were also reported from Jabir. This hadith is hasan authentic. Some scholars did not approve of the use of the name of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and his identifier together. Some have done just that.
3077-) It is narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “One day, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) heard a man shouting, “O Abu al-Kasim,” in the market, and he turned to him and said, “I did not mean you. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Do not tag me with my tag". the hadith of the bazaar, Hasan b. Ali el Hallal, Yazid b. He narrated it to us in this way from Humayd and Anas through Harun. In this hadith, there is evidence that it is not nice to be identified with Abu'l Qasim.
3078-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Even if you put my name, do not be tagged with my kunya.” (Bukhari, Homs: 27; Muslim, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
3079-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: "O Messenger of Allah! If I have a child after you, can I give him your name and tag him with your tag? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied, "Yes". Ali said: This was a special leave for me.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27) hadith is authentic.
3080-) According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form. Only Abu Said al-Ashaj narrated this hadith as merfu from Ibn Abi Ghaniyya. Others have narrated it from Ibn Abi Ghaniyya as mawkuf. This hadith is also reported by Abdullah b. It was narrated in another way through Mas'ud. hadith Ubay b. Ka'b, Ibn Abbas, Aisha, Burayde and Kathir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah's father and grandfather.
3081-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: (Ibn Majah, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3082-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to Hassan b. He would put a pulpit on Sabit, and Hassan would stand on this pulpit and sing supporting and praising the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to say: "May Allah recommend the poet Hassan with the Holy Spirit (Jibril) as long as he praises and defends the Prophet of Allah." (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3083-) İsmail b. Musa and Ali b. Hujr narrated a similar hadith from his father, Urwa, and Aisha through Abu'z Zinad. A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira and Bara on the subject. This hadith is hasan sahih as the narration of Ibn Abi'z Zinad.
3084-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered Mecca during his accidental Umrah. Abdullah b. Rawaha was walking in front of him and was saying: Son of disbelievers, disbelievers, get out of his way, we can strike your necks in accordance with the Qur'an that came to him. one hit that destroys all heads. his best friend makes his friend forget.” Umar said to him, "O Prophet, are you singing in front of Rawaha's son, and in Allah's harem?" He said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "O Omar, let him go because his poems; faster than the impact of the arrow on them.” (Nesai, Menasik: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. He narrated this hadith from Ma'mer, Zuhri, and Anas as here. It is reported in another hadith: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) entered Mecca during the accident Umrah, Ka'b b. Malik was before him.” This narration is more robust compared to some hadith scholars. Because Abdullah b. Rawaha was martyred in the Mute incident. Accident Umrah is after that.
3085-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: It was said to Aisha: Would the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say anything from poetry? Aisha said: She sang the following poem of Ibn Rawaha: “And those whom you did not send by giving you provisions will bring news.” (Musnad: 23920) A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3086-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The most poetic word uttered by the Arabs is the word of Labid: "Pay attention to my word, everything and everyone except Allah. doomed to extinction.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Poetry: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Sevri and others reported this hadith from Abdulmalik b. They narrated from Umair.
3087-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: “I was in the conversation of more than a hundred Prophets (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). The Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) recited poems to each other and discussed some things belonging to the period of ignorance. Our Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would also keep silent and sometimes smile with them.” (Musnad: 20096) This hadith is hasan authentic. He also narrated this hadith from Simak in the same way.
3088-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: stuffed with gnawing pus; It is better than filling your head and heart with poetry.” (Bukhari, Adab: 27; Muslim, Poetry: 17) hadiths were also reported from Sa'd, Ibn Omar and Abu'd Darda. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3089-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Ebî Vakkâs (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “It is better for one of you to be filled with pus than for his head and heart to be filled with poetry.” (Muslim, Poetry: 27; Ibn Mâce, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3090-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah hates those who make false gestures by twisting their tongues like a cow swallowing grass with its tongue.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. A hadith has also been narrated from Sa'd on the subject.
3091-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) forbade sleeping on roofs without railings.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is garib and only Muhammad b. We know from Munkadir's narration from Jabir. Abdulcebbar b. Umar is considered weak in the hadith.
3092-) According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to analyze our situation and adjust our situation accordingly because of the speeches he made on certain days, worrying that we would get bored.” (Bukhari, Science: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-il-Qiyame: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3093-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Yahya b. Through Said, from Sûfyan, from Ameş, from Şakîk b. From Salama and Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Mas'ud to us.
3094-) According to the narration from Abu Salih (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Aisha and Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anhuma) were asked which deed was more beloved to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and they answered as follows: though it is permanent.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
3095-) Hisham b. According to the narration from her father, Aisha, from Urwa, she said: "The most beloved deed to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) is the one that is continuous." as Aaron b. Ishak al-Hamadani Abde through Hisham b. A similar meaning of this hadith was narrated to us from Urwa, her father, and Aisha. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3096-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Cover the vessels, tie the water vessels, close the doors, extinguish the lamps, maybe the little naughty mouse can pull the wick of the lamp and burn the house and its people. ” (Bukhari Bedilhalk: 27; Muslim, Esribe: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has been reported in different ways.
3097-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When you travel in seasons when grass is plentiful, give the camels their share of the ground by grazing. When you travel in times of famine and dryness, be careful not to leave them weak. When you take a rest stop for the night, stay away from the road. Because roads are shelter for insects and vermin at night.” (Muslim, Imara: 27; Abu Dawud, Jihad: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith was also narrated from Jabir and Anas on the subject.
3098-) Nevvâs b. According to the narration from Sem'an al-Kilabî (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah presented an example of his straight path, two walls along the way, open doors on the walls, and there are covers on the doors. At the beginning and on the road, a caller always calls: “Allah invites people to an environment of peace and security, namely Paradise, and directs those who wish to the right path as he wishes.” (10 Yunus: 25) The doors on both sides are forbidden by Allah. A person does not fall into the prohibitions of Allah without opening the veil. The caller on the person is the thing called conscience, in which the Lord has placed people. (Musnad: 16976) This hadith is garib. Abdullah b. I heard from Abdurrahman, Zekeriyya b. He says he heard it from Adiyy and tells that Abu Ishaq al Ferazi said; Take the hadiths narrated by the narrator Bakiyya from reliable people. Ismail b. On the other hand, do not take the things that Ayyaş narrates from both reliable and unreliable people.
3099-) Said b. According to the narration from Ebî Hilal (radiy-Allâhu anh); Jabir b. Abdullah al-Ansari said: One day, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) came to us and said: "I saw in my dream Jibril was standing at my foot in Mikail and someone was saying to another: Make an example for this person! He also said: "Listen, let your ears hear, let your heart understand your situation and the situation of the ummah is similar to the situation of a ruler, that ruler built a mansion, prepared a hall in that mansion, had a table set there, and sent a guest and invited the people to dinner. Some of those people followed the inviter, and some did not. In the illustration, the Sovereign is Allah, the mansion is Islam, the hall is Heaven. And you, O Muhammad, are that inviter. Wake up to you; He enters Islam. Those who follow Islam will enter Paradise, and those who enter Paradise will eat from those there. (Bukhari, İtisam: 27) The hadith has been narrated in different ways with a stronger proof than the one here. This hadith is mursal because Said b. Ebi Hilal, Câbir b. Abdullah did not reach.
3100-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got up after he led the evening prayer, Abdullah b. He took Mas'ud's hand and led him to the place of Mecca called Batha. Then he made her sit down and drew a line around her and said: Never step out of this line! Some people will come to you, do not talk to them! Because they won't talk to you. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) went wherever he wanted. While I was sitting in the line, some people with bodies and hair resembling Sudanese came to me, neither seeing their private parts nor a dress on them... They came to me but could not cross the line. Then they were turning towards the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). When it was the last part of the night, they did not come, but the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) came. I was still sitting, he said: I'm up all night, then he entered my line and made my thigh a pillow and slept. When the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) slept, he slept with a slight snoring. While I was sitting, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made my knees a pillow and slept while I was sleeping, some people wearing white clothes caught my eye. Only God knows the beauty in them. They came to me, some of them sat at the head of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and some of them sat at his feet. Give an example of it. He was a great leader, had a palace built and set a table and invited people to eat and drink. Whoever obeys his invitation will eat from his food and drink from his drink. Whoever does not respond, there will be punishment - or punishment - then they dispersed and at that time the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) woke up. Did you hear what they said? Do you know who they are? I said, 'Allah and His Messenger know better. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: They are angels. Do you know what sample they bring? I said, 'Allah and His Messenger know better. Thereupon, they said: Allah, the Most Merciful, made Paradise and invited his servants to Paradise. Whoever responds to this call will enter Paradise, and whoever does not heed the call, the Most Merciful will punish and punish them.” (Dârimî, Mukaddime: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. Temime is from Huceymi and his name is Tarîf b. He is Mucalid. The name of Abu Osman en Nehdi was Abdurrahman b. It is Müll. Suleyman et Taymi, who narrated this hadith from Mu'temir, is Süleyman b. It is Tarhan. It was attributed to Taym because it was descended from his sons. Ali, Yahya b. Quoting from Said, he said: I have never seen anyone who fears Allah more than Süleyman et Taymi.
3101-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "The example of the Prophets before me and me is like a man who built a mansion, that he decorated all parts of this mansion and only one adobe place remained empty. People enter the mansion, they are amazed, and they say that if this place is not an empty adobe place, they say nothing to the mansion.” (Here I am like that mud brick) (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) on the subject of Ubey b. A hadith was also narrated from Ka'b and Abu Huraira. As such, this hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3102-) According to the narration from Harîs al-Ash'ari (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah ordered Zakariyya's son Yahya to do five things and to order the Israelites to do this as well; Yahya seemed to be a little slow on these five issues. Then Jesus said to him: God has commanded you to do what you need to do in these five matters and to have the children of Israel do it as well. He said either you order or I will order. Yahya replied: If you surpass me in these five points, I fear that I will sink to the ground and suffer punishment. Then Yahya gathered the people in Beyti Makdis, the mosque was full, people filled everywhere. Yahya said: God has commanded me to order you to do five things and what you should do. The first of these is that you worship only Allah and associate nothing with Him. The example of a person who associates partners with Allah is as follows: It is like the example of a person who buys a slave with gold and silver from his own property and then says to that slave here are my property, here is my house, work and pay me his due. He also works and pays someone other than his own master. Which of you would consent to have his slave in this state? He ordered you to pray. Do not turn your face to the right and left while praying. Because Allah does not separate his face from his servant unless he turns his face to the right and left in his prayer. Allah has ordered you to fast. An example of this is as follows. It is similar to the situation of a person who is among a group and has a bowl of musk with him, they all admire him or that scent adores them all. However, the smell of the mouth of a fasting person is more pleasant in the sight of Allah than the smell of musk. Allah has also ordered you to give alms. An example of this is similar to the situation of the person who was captured by the forces of the enemy, who tied his hands around his neck and put forward to strike his neck. The person says that he will save this neck from you more or less with the alms he will give and he will save his life from them. He has commanded you to always remember Him. An example of this is the case of a person who is swiftly pursued by the enemy and eventually throws himself into a strong slave and defends himself against them. So is the slave. By remembering Allah, he protects himself against the devil.” (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: I also order you five things that Allah has commanded me: “Listen, Obedience, Jihad, Hijra and the community” whoever leaves the community by an inch will have removed the bond of Islam from his neck, but if he returns to the community, then another.. Whoever claims the cause of ignorance and defends the ignorant systems is one of the people in Hell. Thereupon, a man, O Messenger of Allah, is it the same whether he fasts or prays? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "The situation is the same whether he prays or fasts." As Muslims, hold the cause and system of Allah. Because he gave you the name Muslims and believers and servants of Allah. (Musnad: 16042) The hadith is hasan sahih garib. Muhammed b. Ismail said: Harîs al-Ash'ari is a Companion. He also narrated other hadiths from this hadith.
3103-) Muhammed b. Beşşar (radiy-Allâhu anh), through Abu Dâvûd et Tayalisi, Ebân b. Yazid, Yahya b. from ebî Katîr, Zayd b. He narrated a similar hadith to us in terms of meaning from Salam, Abu Sallam and Harîs al-Ashari. (Musnad: 16042) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Abu Salam al-Habeshi's name is Memtur. This hadith was narrated by Ali b. al Mubarak, Yahya b. It was narrated from Abi Kathir.
3104-) According to the narration from Abu Musa al-Ashari (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The example of a believer who recites the Qur'an is like a citron with a good taste and smell. The example of a believer who does not read the Qur'an is like a sweet fruit that has no smell, and the example of a hypocrite who reads the Qur'an is like Reyhan, whose smell is pleasant but tastes bitter. The example of a hypocrite who does not read the Qur'an is like the watermelon of Abu Jahl, whose smell and taste are bitter.” (Bukhari, Fedail-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Shu'ba also narrated this Hadith from Qatada.
3105-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “A believer is like a crop, the wind keeps moving him constantly so that the believer does not get rid of trouble, and these troubles becomes atonement for his sins. The hypocrite, on the other hand, is like a solid tree, and he will be overthrown by the wind.” (Bukhari, Marda: 27; Muslim, Adjective-il: Kiyame: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3106-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "There is a tree from the trees whose leaf never falls, a believer is like that tree. Tell me, which tree is that? Everyone's head was stuck on the trees in the desert. In my head, I said, that tree must be a date palm tree. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: That tree is a date palm. I was ashamed to say that I knew that tree. Then I told Omar what was in my heart, and he said: He said that it was better for you to tell that truth than if this or that was mine.” (Bukhari, Science: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-il Kıyama: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira on the subject.
3107-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Tell me, if a river flowed by one of you in front of his door, in which he bathed five times a day, would there be anything left in the name of dirt in that person? The Companions said that there would be no dirt on him. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), the five daily prayers are exactly like that. With that prayer, Allah wipes away the mistakes of his servant.” (Nuhari, Mavakit: 27; Muslim, Masajid: 17) hadiths were also reported from Jabir. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3108-) Qutayba Bekir b. He narrated a similar hadith from Ibn al-Had to us through Mudar al-Qurayshi.
3109-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The example of my ummah is like the example of rain; It is not known whether it is good before or after.” (Musnad: 11878) Ammar on this subject, Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr and Ibn Umar. This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Mahdi, he was Hammad b. He regarded Yahya al-Ebahh as a solid and consistent person and said he was one of our masters.
3110-) According to the narration from Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) threw two stones, and do you know what they look like? He commanded. The Companions said: Only Allah and His Messenger know. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A stone that falls far away is a person's desire. The stone that falls near is the time of death.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
3111-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Compared to previous societies, your life expectancy in this world is the time between the afternoon prayer and the sunset. As for the situation of Jews and Christians with you; It is like a person who employs a worker. This employer said, who will work for me until half of the day in exchange for one carat. The Jews worked for one carat, then they asked me who would work for one carat from the middle of the day until the afternoon prayer, and the Christians worked for one carat. Then you work for two carats after the afternoon prayer until sunset. Thereupon, the Jews and Christians got angry and said that our job is more and our wages are less. That employer said: Did I cut something off from you? said. They also said no, so this is my treat, I will give it to whomever I want." (Bukhari, Mawaqit: 27) The hadith is hasan.
3112-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “People are like a group of one hundred camels. One may not find a ride through them.” (Bukhari, Rikak: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3113-) Said b. Abdurrahman al Mahzûmî (radiy-Allâhu anh), Sûfyan b. He narrated to us a similar hadith from Zuhri through Uyeyna, and said, "You may not find a suitable mount that you can use among them." (Bukhari, Ahadith-il Anbiya: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17)
3114-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The situation of me and my Ummah is like the situation of a person who lights a fire, insects and butterflies start to fall into that fire. I've been holding your belts." (Bukhari, Ehadith-il Anbiya: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith has also been narrated in other ways.
3115-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), Ubay b. Ka'b went to him while he was praying and said, "O Ubayy". Ubay looked around, but did not answer. But he cut his prayer short and finished it and went to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him); "Peace be upon you, O Messenger of Allah," he said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also received his greeting and said, "Why didn't you answer when I called you? Ubay: O Messenger of Allah, I was in prayer. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said in the Qur'an that Allah revealed to me: "O you who believe, follow the message of Allah and His Messenger when he calls you to messages that will give you life and correct you!" Haven't you seen the command (8 Anfal: 24)? Übey said: “Yes, I saw it” and said I hope I will not make this mistake again. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do you want me to teach you a surah whose like has not been revealed in the Torah, the Bible, the Psalms, or the Qur'an? Ubayy said yes, O Messenger of Allah. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked how do you recite it in prayer? He commanded. Ubey: He recited Surah Fatiha, which is Ummul Qur'an. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my soul, that no equivalent of this Surah Fatiha was revealed in the Torah, the Bible, the Psalms, or the Qur'an. It is a part of the Qur'an given to me, which has seven verses and is repeated over and over again." (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Abu Dawud, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith was also narrated from Anas and Abu Said al-Mualla.
3116-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted to send a military detachment, and they were a limited number of people and he wanted them to read. While everyone was going to recite from the places in the Qur'an they memorized, he came to the youngest person and asked, "Oh, what do you have in your heart?" Oda said that in my heart there is this, there is this, and there is Surah Al-Baqara. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), do you have Surah al-Baqara in your heart? Said. That person said yes too. Then go, you are the commander (commander) of this detachment. One of the elders who joined that detachment said on this incident: “O Messenger of Allah! The thing that prevented me from learning Surah Baqara was the fear of not being able to do it justice.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Learn the Qur'an, read it, have it read. The example of a person who learns the Qur'an, reads it and does what is necessary is like a container filled with musk, its smell spreading everywhere. A person who has knowledge of the Qur'an but does not spread it around him and sleeps with it is like a musk box with its mouth closed, that his surroundings will not benefit from it.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is hasan.
3117-) Leys b. Sa'd narrated this hadith from Sa'id al Makburi, from Abu Ahmad's freed slave Ata, in the same way, and did not say "from Abu Huraira". Again, Qutayba narrated from Lays and did not mention Abu Huraira.
3118-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not turn your houses into graves in which prayers are not performed. If Surah Baqarah is recited in a house, the devil will not enter that house.” (Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3119-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The summit of everything is the summit of the Qur'an, and the summit is Surah Baqara. There is a verse in this surah that is the master of the verses of the Qur'an. That verse is Ayet-el Kursi.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is garib and only Hakîm b. We know from the narration of Jubayr. Hakim b. He talked back and forth about Jubayr and said that he was weak.
3120-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever recites the first three verses of the chapter of Believer and the 255th verse of the chapter of al-Baqara in the morning, he will stay until the evening. is preserved. If he reads it in the evening, he will be protected by these verses until the morning.” (Darimi, Fedail: 27) This hadith is strange. Some scholars Abdurrahman b. Abu Bakr b. They talked about the memory of Abu Mulayke al-Muleyki. Zurare b. Mus'ab ibn Abdurrahman b. He is Auf and the grandfather of Abu Mus'ab al Madani.
3121-) According to the narration from Abu Ayyub al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh): “Abu Ayyub had a date warehouse. Someone like a jinn or a devil would come and buy dates from that warehouse. Abu Ayyub complained about the situation to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said: "When you see him again, he said: "Bismillah, respond to the prophet." Then Abu Ayyub caught him, promising that he would not come again, and he let him go. Then he came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) asked, "What did your prisoner do?" Abu Ayyub said: He has sworn that he will never return. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "He lied, he is used to lying." Abu Ayyub caught that person again, and when he swore that he would not come again, he released him again. As for the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him); “What did your prisoner do?” he asked. Abu Ayyub said: He swore a second time never to return. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "He lied, he is used to lying." When he caught the third time; He said, "This time, I will not leave you until I take you to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, that person said: I will teach you something, read the "Ayet-el Kursi" at home, neither the devil nor anyone else can approach you. Abu Ayyub came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) asked, "What did your prisoner do?" Abu Ayyub informed him of what had happened. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "He spoke the truth, but in reality he is a liar." (Musnad: 22488) The hadith is hasan garib. Ubay b. Hadith was also narrated from Ka'b.
3123-) According to the narration from Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever recites the last two verses of the chapter of al-Baqara, those two verses are enough for him." (Bukhari, Maghazi: 27; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3124-) Numân b. Bashir (radiyallahu anh) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Two thousand years before Allah created the heavens and the earth, he wrote a book and sent down two verses from that book and sealed the chapter of al-Baqara with those two verses. If this verse is not recited in a house for three days, the devil will approach that house.” (Dârimî, Fedail-ül Qur'an: 27) This hadith is strange.
3125-) Nevvâs b. According to the narration from Se'an (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Those who act in accordance with the Qur’an and in the world will be brought on the Day of Judgment and the Surahs of Al-Baqara and Al-i Imran will be before him.” He says: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave three examples of these two surahs, and I never forgot them, he said: "Those two surahs are side by side like two umbrellas with light leaking between them, or like two dark clouds, or flocks of pure birds with their wings stretched out. They will come and fight for the people who read Surah Al-Baqara and Al-i Imran to enter Paradise.” (Muslim: Salat-ül Musafirin: 27) hadiths were also reported from Burayda and Abu Umama. This hadith is strange in its form. The meaning of this hadith is: On the Day of Judgment, the reward of reading the surah, not the surah, will come. Some scholars have interpreted this and similar hadiths in this way. In other words, the reward of reading the Qur'an will come. Nevvas b. There is evidence in the hadith of Sem'an that points to the meaning interpreted by scholars. As a matter of fact, in the hadith, our Prophet says, "People of the Qur'an who act with it in the world... In this expression, there is a sign that the reward of the deed will come.
3126-) Muhammed b. Ismail (radiyallahu anh) narrated from Humaydi, Sufyan b. Uyeyne's Abdullah b. As Mas'ud relates, "Allah did not create a greater heaven and earth than the Ayet-el Kursi." He said about the hadith: Because Ayet-el Kursi is the word of Allah. and the word of Allah is greater than the earth and sky He created. (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3127-) According to the narration from Abu Ishaq (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard from Bara that he was saying: While reading the chapter of al-Kahf, a person saw that his horse, which was standing calmly, started to move. He also saw that a cloud or something resembling a cloud... He came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and explained the situation. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is tranquility, which is a divine peace that descends upon reading the Qur'an or descends upon the Qur'an." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 17) Usayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Hudayr. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3128-) According to the narration from Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever recites three verses from the beginning of the chapter of al-Kahf will be protected from the corruption of the Dajjal.” (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Malahım: 17) b. Beşşar, Muâz b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us with the same deed, saying that my father narrated it from Abu Qatada through Hisham. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3129-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Everything has a heart. The heart of the Qur'an is Surah Yasin. Whoever reads the chapter of Yasin and lives according to its contents; Allah will reward that person as much as he has recited the Qur'an ten times." (Dârimî, Fedail-ül Qur'an: 27) This hadith is strange and only Humayd b. We know with the narration of Abdurrahman. In Basra, the hadiths of Qatada are known only through this chain of transmission. Harun Abu Muhammad is an unknown old man.
3130-) Abu Musa, Muhammad b. Müsenna, Ahmed b. From Kutayba through ed Darimi, Humayd b. This is how he conveyed this hadith from Abdurrahman to us. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Bakr as Siddiq on this subject, and his narration is not very strong and weak.
3131-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever recites the chapter of Ha-mim Duhan at night, seventy thousand angels will reach the morning, asking forgiveness for him.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib and we know it only as it is. Umar b. Abi Has'am is said to be weak in the hadith. He says that his hadiths are munkar.
3132-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever recites the chapter of Hamim Duhan on Friday night, his sins will be forgiven." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) We know this hadith only in this way. It has been noted that Hisham, Abu'l Mikdam was weak in hadith. He did not hear any hadith from Abu Huraira. In Eyyub, Yunus b. Ubayd and Ali b. This is what they say in Zayd.
3133-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), one of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) set up his tent on a grave that he did not know was a grave. What can he see, isn't it the grave of a person who reads the term of property to the end? Thereupon, the man who set up a tent came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said; O Messenger of Allah! He said, I had set up my tent in a place where I did not know that there was a grave. Suddenly, a man appeared from there and read Surah Mulk to the end... Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "This surah is a hindrance and a savior, it saves anyone who reads it from the torment of the grave." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira on the subject.
3134-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is a chapter of thirty verses in the Qur'an that interceded for a man, that man's sin was forgiven. Yedihil is the duration of the property.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27; Ibn Majah, Adab: 17) the hadith is hasan authentic.
3135-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would not sleep without reading the time of Alif lam mim Tenzil (Surah Sajda) and Tabarakellezi bi Yedihil Mulk (Mulk Surah). (Musnad: 14132) Many people refer to this hadith as Leys b. They narrated it from Abi Salim, just like here. Muğîre b. Muslim also narrates from Abu'z Zubayr in a similar way from Jabir. He narrated it and said: I asked Abu'z Zubayr, did you hear Jabir telling this hadith? He also narrated this hadith. Abu'z Zubayr says: Safwan or Safwan's son reported this hadith to me. It is as if Zuhayr does not know that this hadith is from Abu'z Zubayr and Jabir and finds it strange.
3136-) Hennad conveyed a similar hadith to us from Abu'z Zubayr from Lays, from Jabir through Abu'l Ahvas.
3137-) Huraym, through Fudeyl, narrated from Lays and Tavus, and said: These two surahs are seventy better than all the surahs of the Qur'an.
3138-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever recites Surah Zilzal, this surah is equal to half of the Qur'an, and whoever recites Surah Kafirun, this surah is also for him. It is equivalent to a quarter of the Qur'an. Whoever recites the chapter of Ikhlas, this chapter will be equivalent to one-third of the Quran." (Musnad: 12031) This hadith is garib. This hadith is only for Shaykh Hasan b. We know from Selm's narration. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas on the subject.
3139-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Surah Zilzal is equivalent to half of the Qur'an. Surah Ikhlas is equivalent to one-third of the Qur'an. Surah Kafirun, on the other hand, is equivalent to one-fourth of the Qur'an.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is garib. We know this hadith only through the narration of Yaman ibn al-Mughira.
3140-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked a man from his Companions, “O or something, did you get married? she asked. The man said: No, O Messenger of Allah, I am not married, and I do not have the opportunity to marry. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) didn't you have surah Ikhlas in your memory? He commanded. The man said: Yes. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "It is one-third of the Qur'an. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not have Surah Nasr in his memory? He commanded. Man: He said yes. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is one-fourth of the Qur'an. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) asked, do you have Surah Kafirun in your memory? he commanded. The man said yes, and the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "It is one-fourth of the Qur'an." Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "Doesn't he have Surah Zilzal in his heart?" The man said: Yes, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "It is one-fourth of the Qur'an," and he said, "You are rich, he uses teaching these as a mahr." (Musnad: 12031) This hadith is hasan.
3141-) According to the narration from Abu Ayyub (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Which of you is incapable of reciting a third of the Qur'an in one night? Whoever reads the chapter of Kulhuvallahu ahad is considered to have read one-third of the Qur'an.” (Nesâî, İftitah: 27; Dârimî, Fedail-ül Qur'an: 17) Ebû'd Derdâ, Ebû Said, Katade b. Hadith was also narrated from Numan, Abu Huraira, Anas, Ibn Omar and Abu Mas'ud. This hadith is hasan authentic. We do not know anyone who narrates this hadith better than Zaide. Fudayl b. Iyaz and Israel followed him in their narrations. Shu'ba and many trustworthy people narrate this hadith from Mansur and fall into confusion.
3142-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I came with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) heard that someone was reciting Surah Ikhlas and said it was wajib. What happened to me? Said; They said "heaven". (Musnad: 7669) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Malik b. We know from the narration of Enes. Abu Hunayn Ubayd b. It is Hunayn.
3143-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever recites Surah Ikhlas two hundred times a day, his sins of fifty years will be erased. However, the debt of the servant on him is outside of this.”
3144-) In the same vein, it is narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever wants to sleep, lies on his right side on his bed and then recites Surah Ikhlas a hundred times, his Lord will say to him on the Day of Judgment: O my servant! Enter Paradise from your right.” (Darimi, Fedail-ul-Qur'an: 27) This hadith is strange, as Sabit's narration from Anas. This hadith has been narrated from Thabit in different ways.
3145-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Sura Ihlas is equivalent to one-third of the Qur'an.” (Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 27; Ibn Majah, Adab: 17) the hadith is hasan sound.
3146-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I will recite one third of the Qur'an to you when you gather. Thereupon it was gathered. Then, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) left his room, recited Surah Ihlas and entered his room. We said to each other: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said that he would recite one-third of the Qur'an to you. I strongly suspect that this is news that came to him from heaven. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came out and said: I told you that I would recite one-third of the Qur'an. (Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 27; Ibn Mâce, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. The name of Abu Hazim al-Eshcaî is Salman.
3147-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: There is a man from the Ansar. He was an imam in the Qu'ba mosque. When he would recite a surah that he could read to them in prayer, he would start with Surah Ihlas, then recite another surah and do exactly the same in every rak'ah. His friends talked to him and said: "You are reading one surah, you do not find it sufficient and you read another surah. Either always recite this surah or the other.” This person from the Ansar said: "I am not going to stop reading this chapter of Ihlas, if you want me to lead you in prayer with this chapter, I will, if you don't, I will quit being an imam." They did not want anyone else to be their imam, as they saw this person as their most valuable person. When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to them, they informed him of the situation. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “O so-and-so; What is the reason that distracts you from what the congregation is saying and prompts you to recite this surah in every rak'ah? He commanded. He said: O Messenger of Allah, I love this surah. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The love of this surah will make you enter Paradise." (Dârimî, Fedail-ül Qur'an: 27) This hadith was written by Ubeydullah b. As the narration of Omar from Sabit, as it is, hasan garib is authentic.
3148-) Mubarak b. Fadala narrated from Thabit from Anas: A man said: O Messenger of Allah! I love this Surah Ihlas. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said: If you love that surah, you will definitely enter Paradise. Abu Dâvûd, Süleyman b. Eş'as, through Abu'l Walid Mubarak b. He narrated from Fedâle in this way.
3149-) Uqbe b. According to the narration from Amir al-Juheni (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah has revealed to me unprecedented verses. He recited the chapters of Nas and Felak until the end." (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 27; Nesai, İftitah: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3150-) Ukbe b. According to the narration from Amir (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered me to recite Surah Nas and Falak after every prayer." (Nesai, Sahv: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 17) the hadith is hasan garib.
3151-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A person who recites the Qur’an well and acts it is with the honorable and respectful scribe and angels.” There are two rewards for a person who reads the Qur'an (Hisham said with difficulty, Shu'be said with difficulty). (Due to one reading and the other being forced) (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3152-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever reads and memorizes the Qur'an, considers what he has made lawful, considers what he has made unlawful, and stays away; Because of that Qur'an, Allah puts him in Paradise and intercedes for ten people from his family who are in Hell." (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is strange. We only know this way. It's not very solid either. Hafs b. Solomon is considered weak in the hadith.
3153-) According to the narration from Haris (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I stopped by the mosque, found the congregation immersed in some gossip, and went to Ali and said: O Commander of the Believers! Don't you see people indulging in useless gossip? On top of that, do Ali really do that? she asked; I said yes, too. Thereupon, Ali said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Beware, there will be a great fitna! How will I be freed from this fitna, O Messenger of Allah! said. They said: By holding on to the Book of Allah, because in it is the news of those before you, the news of those after you, and the decision of the issues between you. It is a definite judgment that separates right and wrong, and it is not nonsense. Whoever stays away from him by bullying, Allah will finish him off. Whoever seeks the right way in other than that Qur'an, Allah will lead him astray. It is the strong rope of Allah and His words full of wisdom. He is Sırat-ı mustakîm. That Qur'an is such a book that cannot be disturbed by desires and desires, can not be confused by languages, scientists can not get enough of it, its admirable aspects that do not get old and do not get bored with repetition: When a group of jinn listened to it, they had to say: "What a beautiful Qur'an we are! We listened to the Qur'an for a moment, a Qur'an that made us conscious of distinguishing the truth from the wrong, and thus we believed in it, and from now on, we will not ascribe divinity to others from our Lord.” The one who speaks based on (Jinn time: 1-2) has spoken the right word. Whoever acts with it gains rewards, the one who rules with it behaves justly, and the one who invites him will be guided to the right path. O A'ver, listen to these words carefully! (Dârimî, Fedail-ül Qur'an: 27) We know this hadith only in this way. His deed is obsolete. There are rumors about the narration of Haris.
3154-) Osman b. According to the narration from Afwan (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The best of you is the one who learns the Qur'an and teaches it." (Bukhari, Fedail-ul Qur'an: 27; Ibn Mâce, 1 Mukaddime: 17) Abdurrahman said: This is the reason that made me sit where I am sitting. Abu Abdurrahman continued to teach the Qur'an during the caliphate of Osman, Haccac b. He continued this work until the time of Yusuf. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3155-) Osman b. According to a narration from Affan (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The best and most valuable of you are those who learn the Qur'an and teach it." (Bukhari, Fedail-ul Qur'an: 27; Ibn Mâce, 1 Mukaddime: 17) the hadith is hasan authentic. b. Mahdi and many others derive this hadith from Sûfyan es Sevrî, Alkame b. They narrated from Mersed, Abu Abdurrahman and Osman. In the hadith of Sufyan, Sa'd b. He did not say from Ubeyde.
3156-) Yahya b. Said al Kattan reported this hadith from Sufyan, Shu'ba, Alkame b. Sa'd b. They narrated from Ubayda, Abu Abdurrahman and Osman in this way. as, Muhammad b. Beşşar: Yahya b. Said narrated this hadith from Sufyan and Shu'ba many times. Alkame b. Mersed, Sa'd b. They conveyed this hadith to us from Ubayda, Abu Abdurrahman and Osman. Muhammed b. Basshar says: While Sufyan's friends were narrating this hadith from Sufyan, in his deed, Sufyan and Sa'd b. He did not say from Ubeyde. Muhammed b. Bashar said that this narration is stronger. In the document of this hadith, Shu'ba said that Sa'd b. He added Ubayda and the hadith narrated by Sufyan is more robust. Ali b. Abdullah, Yahya b. He narrated that Said said: I don't think anyone can be equal to Shu'ba. But if Sufyan opposes him, I will get Sufyan's narration. I heard from Abu Ammar. He told us from Vekî that Shu'be said: Sufyan's memory is stronger than mine. What Sufyan told me from someone, when I asked him about it, I found it exactly as he narrated. A hadith has also been narrated from Ali and Sa'd on the subject.
3157-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The best of you is the one who learns the Qur'an and teaches it.” (Dârimî, Fedail-ül Qur'an: 27) that the hadith was transmitted through Ali only Abdurrahman b. We know from the narration of Ishaq.
3158-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If he reads a letter from the Qur'an, a reward will be written for him, and each reward will be tenfold. I am not saying that Elif lam mim is a letter. But elif is a letter lam and a letter mime is a letter.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) hadith Abdullah b. It has also been narrated from Mas'ud in different ways. Abu'l Ahvas narrated this hadith from Ibn Mas'ud, sometimes as merfu and sometimes as mawkuf. As such, this hadith is hasan sahih garib. I heard him say: Muhammad b. It is among the information that reached me that Ka'b al Kurazi was born in the life of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Muhammed b. He is known as Ka'b Abu Hamza.
3159-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah did not value anything superior to the two-rak'ah prayer that his servant performs. As long as the servant continues to pray, goodness and reward will spread over him. Servants get closer to Allah as their interest in the Qur'an increases.” Abu'n Nadr said: He means the Qur'an. (Musnad: 21274) This hadith is garib and we know it only as it is. b. Ibn al-Mubarak spoke about Humays and eventually abandoned his narrations. This hadith is also from Zayd b. From Ertae, Jubayr b. It was also narrated from Nufeir as mursal.
3160-) Cübeyr b. According to a narration from Nufayr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "You cannot return to Allah's presence with something more valuable than the good deeds you have done to Allah by following the orders of the Qur'an." (Musnad: 21274)
3161-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "A person who does not have anything from the Qur'an in his life is like a ruined house." (Dârimî, Fedail-ül Qur'an: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3162-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It will be said to a person who reads the Qur'an, read and rise. Read as you read in the world, because your rank is up to the end of the verses you read." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3163-) Bundar, Abdurrahman b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Sufyan and Asım through the Mahdi in the same document.
3164-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The Qur'an will be brought on the Day of Judgment and he will say: "O my Lord, dress this servant of yours who reads me and lives with me, a miracle for that person." He will wear his crown, then the Qur'an will say: increase it, my Lord. Clothes will be dressed as a treat, then the Qur'an will say, "O my Lord, be pleased with him. Allah will be pleased with him. It will be said: O servant, read and rise, so that goodness, rewards and rewards will be increased with each verse he reads. (Dârimî Fedeil-ül Qur'an: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3165-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. From Shu'be through Cafer, Asım b. They have conveyed a similar hadith to us from Behdale, Abu Salih, and Abu Huraira, without being merciful. This hadith is stronger and more authentic than the narration of Abdussamed from Shu'ba.
3166-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The rewards of my ummah were presented to me, even down to the smallest piece of garbage that he took out to keep the mosque clean... The sins of my ummah were also presented to me. I have never seen a greater sin than a verse and chapter that a person learned from the Qur'an and forgot." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27) This hadith is strange and we know it only as it is. Muhammed b. I discussed this hadith with Ismail, he did not recognize it and found it strange. Muhammad said: Muttalib b. We do not know that Abdullah heard hadiths from any of the companions of the prophet. However; There is a saying, "A person who was in the sermon of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) narrated to me". Abdullah b. I also heard Abdurrahman say: We do not know if Muttalib heard hadiths from any of the Prophet's companions. Abdullah says: Ali b. al-Madinî denied that Muttalib had heard hadith from Anas.
3167-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), who reads the Qur'an himself and then should be recited in times of trouble and distress; He came across someone who was reciting the 156th verse of the chapter of al-Baqara and he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) say: "Whoever reads the Qur'an, let him ask Allah for what he needs, because in the future there will be people who will say: The Qur'an They will read the Qur'an and ask people to use it as a tool.” (Musnad: 19029) says: This person is Haysama from Basra, from whom Jabir al-Cufi narrated hadith. Abdurrahman's son is not Hayseme. This Hayseme is an old man from Basra. Abu'n Nasr is known by his tag. Anas narrated a few hadiths from him. Jabir al-Cufi narrated hadith from Haysama. This hadith is hasan. The bill is not like this.
3168-) According to the narration from Suheyb (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: He did not believe in the Qur'an." (Tirmidhi narrated.) The proof of this hadith is not very solid. It was opposed in the narration of Vekî'a. Muhammad says: Abu Ferve, Yazidb. There is no harm in the hadiths of Sinan er Rehavi, but the narrations of his son from him are not like this. Because his son narrates munkar hadiths from him. Muhammed b. Yazid b. Sinan narrated this hadith from his father and said, "From Mujahid, Said b. He added the word "From Müseyyeb and Suheyb". Muhammed b. Yazid's narration has not been followed well, and that narration is weak. Abu'l Mubarak, on the other hand, is an unknown person.
3169-) Ukbe b. According to a narration from Amir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said, “I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Whoever reads the Qur'an openly is as if he has given charity openly. Whoever recites the Qur'an secretly is like giving charity in secret." (Nesai, Kıyam-ül Leyl: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. The meaning of the hadith is that the person who recites the Qur'an secretly is superior to the person who recites it openly. Because giving alms in secret was considered more valuable by scholars than giving openly. They have interpreted this as follows: By giving a secret, a person saves himself from smugness. Being afflicted with smugness in secret charity and secret worship does not require as much fear as openly.
3170-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would not go to bed without reading the Surahs of Bani Israel (Isra and Zumer).” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Abu Lubabe is an old man from Basra. Hammad b. Zayd narrated many hadiths from him. It is said that his name is Marwan. This is the situation of Abu Lubabe Muhammad b. Ismail told us in his book Kitab-ül Tarihi.
3171-) Irbad b. According to a narration from Sariye (radiyallahu anh), she used to say, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) read the chapters called Musabbihat before going to bed, and there is one verse in these surahs that is better than a thousand verses." (Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 17) durations: These are seven surahs that start with the words from the root SBH; Surahs Isra, Hadid, Hashr, Saff, Juma, Taghabun and A'la') This hadith is hasan garib.
3172-) Ma'kil b. According to a narration from Yasar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever says three times in the morning, Audhu billahissemiil scholar minshaytanirracim (I seek refuge in Allah, Who knows everything from the evil of the stoned Satan who was expelled from Allah's mercy); If he recites three verses from the end of Surah Hashr, Allah will deputize seventy thousand angels for that person and those angels will pray and ask forgiveness for that person until the evening. If he dies that day, he dies as a martyr. Anyone who reads in the evening is in the same situation until the morning.” (Dârimî, Fedail-ül Qur'an: 27) The hadith is strange and we know it only in this way.
3173-) Ya'la b. Mamlek (radiy-Allâhu anh) asked Umm Salama, one of the wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), about the prayer and recitation of our Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, Umm Salama; Why are you asking about his prayer? He prays, then sleeps as long as he prays, then prays again as long as he sleeps, then sleeps as long as he prays again, and it would be morning. Then Umm Salama described her reading in the prayers she performed and said: "She used to read clearly and letter by letter." (Nesai, Iftitah: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Only Lays b. Sa'd, from Ibn Abi Muleyke, Ya'la b. We know from the narration from Mamlek and Umm Salama. Jurayj narrated this hadith from Umm Salama through Ibn Abi Mulayke: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to recite while reciting by stopping at the end of the verses, he would not connect them together." Leys's narration is more solid.
3174-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Abi Qays (radiyallahu anh), he said: I asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha) about the witr prayer that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) performed; whether he would do it at the first hour of the night or at the end of the night… he said: “He did it both ways; Sometimes he would perform the witr before the night, sometimes at the end of the night.” Then I said, "Praise be to Allah, He has made it easy in religion and worship." Then, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); I asked him whether he would recite it secretly or openly in his prayer. He also said: “He used to read both ways; Sometimes he would read secretly, sometimes openly.” I said, 'Praise be to Allah, he wanted ease and breadth in religion'. I asked again: “What would he do in the state of junub? Do you wash before going to sleep? Or would she sleep before she washes?" Aisha said: “This would have been done both ways; Sometimes he would wash and sleep, and sometimes he would make wudu like a prayer ablution and sleep when he woke up.” I said, 'Praise be to Allah,' he did this for ease and breadth in all his worship and worship. (Muslim, Hayz: 27; Nesai, Tahara: 17) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
3175-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would introduce himself to the people who came for hajj during the pilgrimage season and say, "Is there anyone who will take me to my people? Because the Quraysh prevented me from conveying the words of my Lord.” (Abu Dawud, Sunnah: 27; Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 17) This hadith is garib and authentic.
3176-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah the Almighty said: Whoever is not in a position to ask me anything because of reading my Book and remembering me; I will give the best of what I have given to those who ask for that person. The superiority of Allah's words over other words is like Allah's superiority over His creations. (Dârimî, Fedail-ül Qur'an17) This hadith is hasan garib.
3177-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was reading the Qur'an, he would cut between the verses and stop. In other words, he would read: "Alhamdi lillahi rabbil alemin", then he would stop and say "Errahmanir rahim", then stop again and read this verse as "Maliki yevmiddin". (Abu Dawud, Huruf and Qiraat: 27) This hadith is strange. Abu Ubeyde adopted this reading style and read it as "Maliki", not "Maliki". b. Said al Umayyad and others reported this hadith in this way from Ibn Jurayj, Ibn Abi Mulayka and Umm Salama. The chain of this hadith is not absolute. Because Leys b. Sa'd narrated this hadith from Ibn Abi Mulayka, Ya'la b. They narrated from Mamlek and Umm Salama. The hadith of Lays is more robust. In his hadith, he read it as "Melik Yevmiddin." There is no section.
3178-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), Abu Bakr, Omar, and I think Osman, they used to read it as Maliki yevmiddin.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is garib. This hadith is attributed to Zühri's Anas b. The only thing that he had narrated from Malik was the elder Ayyub b. We know from the narration of Suveyd er Ramli. Some of his men related this hadith from Zuhri, saying, "The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), Abu Bakr and Omar Maliki used to read it as yevmiddin". on the other hand, from Ma'mer, Zuhrî, Said b. Narrated by Musayyeb: “The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), Abu Bakr and Omar; They used to read it as maliki yevmiddin”.
3179-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) read the 45th verse of the chapter of Maide as “Ennan nafse binnafsi velaynü bilayni”. (Abu Dawud, Huruf and Recitation: 27)
3180-) Suveyd, Abdullah, Yunus b. He narrated a similar hadith from Yazid with this deed. Abu Ali b. Yazid, Yunus b. He is Yazid's brother. This hadith is hasan garib. says: Ibn al-Mubarak reported this hadith from Yunus b. He narrated from Yazid alone. In Ubayd, following this hadith, he read it as "el Aynu bilayni".
3181-) Muâz b. According to the narration from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) recited verse 112 of Surah Maide as “Hel testetiu Rabbeke”. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We know this hadith only through the narration of Rishdi. The proof of this hadith is not very solid. Rişdîn b. Sa'd and al-Afriki are two people who are considered weak in the hadith.
3182-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) read the 46th verse of Hud Surah as “Innahu amile gayra salihin”. (Ebû Dâvûd, Huruf and Recitation: 17) Many people narrate this hadith from Sabit al Bunani in this way and it is called Sabit al Bunani's hadith. In this way, this hadith Shahr b. It was narrated from Hawsheb, from Esma bint Yazid. Abd b. I heard Humayd say: Esma bint Yazid is Umm Salama el Ansariye. I think it's one in both cases. city b. Havsheb also narrated many other hadiths from Umm Salama al-Ansariyya that this woman; Yazid's daughter is Asma. A similar hadith was narrated from Aisha.
3183-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) also read the 46th verse of Hud Surah as “innahu amalun gayru salihin”. (Abu Dawud, Huruf and Recitation: 17)
3184-) Ubey b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the 76th verse of the chapter of al-Kahf as "Kad bellağtu min ledunni uzran" with shadda. (Abu Dawud, Huruf and Qiraat: 27) This hadith is strange. We know this hadith only in this way. Umayya b. Khalid is a trusted person. Ebû'l concubine el Abdi is an unknown old man and we do not know his name.
3185-) Ubey b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet recited the 86th verse of the chapter of al-Kahf as "Fi aynin hamietin". (Abu Dawud, Huruf and Qiraat: 27) This hadith is strange. But this is how we know it. The authentic narration is that this reading is the reading of Ibn Abbas. Ibn Abbas and Amr b. It is reported that As's disagreed on the reading of this verse and they appealed to Ka'b'ul Ahbara on this issue. If there was a narration from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) on this subject in the presence of Ibn Abbas, they would have been content with that narration and would not have taken the matter to Ka'b.
3186-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “During the Battle of Badr, the Greeks were also victorious over the Iranians. This pleased the believers. Thereupon, verses 1-4 of the chapter of Rum were revealed. Abu Said: The believers were happy that the Greeks had defeated the Iranians.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. The first word in the second verse is read as "Galebet" and "Gulibet". It was “Galebet” and then it was read as “Gulibet”. Nasr b. It reads as “Galebet in Ali”.
3187-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he himself recited the 54th verse of the Rum sura to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as “Halakakum min da'fin”, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, “Min du 'fin' he commanded. (Abu Dawud, Huruf and Recitation: 27)
3188-) Abd b. Humayd, Yazid b. Through Harun, Fudeyl b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Marzuk, Atiyya, and Ibn Omar. The hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was only reported by Fudeyl b. We know from the narration of Mersuk.
3189-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to read the word "muddekir" in the verses 15, 17, 22, 32, 40, 51 of the chapter of Kamer as "Fe hel min makakkirin". (Bukhari, Ehadisul Anbiya: 27; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3190-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to read the 89th verse of Surah Vakia as “Fe ravhun ve Rayhanun ve Cennete nîm”. (Abu Dawud, Huruf and Qiraat: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only through the narration of Harun al-A'ver.
3191-) According to the narration from Alkame (radiyallahu anh), he said: We came to Damascus, Abu'd Darda came to us and said: Abdullah b. Is there anyone who will read the way Mas'ud reads? said. They also pointed to me. So I said yes. He was Abdullah b. How did you hear Mas'ud recite the verse "Valleyli iza rain"? She asked. I also said: I heard you read this verse as: "Valleyli iza Yağsa vezzekeri wal ünsa". Thereupon, Abu'd Darda said: By Allah, I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) reciting this verse like this. However, these people want me to read this verse as "vema halaka". From now on, I will never comply with these wishes of these people. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Mas'ud's way of reading is as follows: “velleyli iza Yagsa vennehari iza tecella vezzekeri vel ünsa.”
3192-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made me read the 58th verse of the chapter of Zâriyat as "inni ene'r Razzaku zulguquil text". (Abu Dawud, Huruf: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3193-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the second verse of the chapter of Hajj as follows: "wa tera'n nase sukara wa mahum bi sukara". (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan. We do not know that Qatada heard hadith from anyone other than Anas and Abu't Tufayl, who were among the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). I think this hadith has been shortened from a long hadith. Hasan, Imran b. According to a narration from Husayn, he said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey; He recited several verses of Surah Hajj. The hadith is long. I think the above Referee b. The hadith of Abdulmalik has been shortened from this long hadith.
3194-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "How bad is it when someone or one of you says I forgot so and such a verse. It would be more appropriate for him to say that he made me forget. Then, review and discuss the Qur'an in order to keep it in mind. I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my soul, that the disappearance of the Qur'an from the hearts of people is more severe and quicker than the escape of an animal from its vineyard." (Bukhari, Fedail-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3195-) Omar b. According to the narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), he said: Hisham b. Hakim b. I stopped by Hizam. It was at a time when the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was alive. He was reciting the chapter of Furkan in his prayer, and I listened to what he was reading and what should I see. Whether the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) taught me or not, he recited in a different way. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'He taught me. I said you are wrong. By Allah, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) made me read this surah himself, but it was not like you recited it. Then I took him to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and said: O Messenger of Allah! I heard this person recite Surah Furqan in ways you did not teach me. You are the one who taught me to read and teach Surah Furkan. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: O Omar! He said let go of him. He said to Hisham: Read and see. There, Hisham repeated his reading as I heard it. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “This is how it was sent down. Then the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) read it to me, O Omar! Said. I read it as the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) taught me. Again, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: This is how this surah was revealed. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The Qur'an; It was downloaded in seven readings. Read whatever is easy for you.” (Bukhari, Enmity: 27; Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Enes has narrated this hadith from Zuhri in a similar way with the same deed, and in the hadith it is written “Misver b. He did not mention "Mahreme".
3196-) Ubey b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) met with Gabriel and said to him, O Gabriel; I was sent as a prophet to an illiterate society. Among them, there are the elderly, men, women, boys and girls who have not read anything (he said how can I get along with them, how will I explain the Qur'an to them) and Gabriel said: “O Muhammad! The Qur'an was sent down in seven ways of recitation." (Don't worry, you can tell them all.) (Musnad: 20259) Ömer, Huzeyfe b. Yeman, Abu Ayyub's wife Umm Ayyub, Samura, Ibn Abbas, Abu Hurayra, Abu Juheym b. Harisb. Simme, Amr b. Hadith was also narrated from As and Abu Bakr. This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith is different from Ubay b. It is also reported from Ka'b.
3197-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever relieves one of his brother's troubles in this world, Allah will relieve him of one of his troubles on the Day of Judgment, whoever will forgive a Muslim's shame. If he covers it, Allah will cover that person's faults in this world and the next. Whoever makes it easy for a narrowed person; Allah provides that person with ease in this world and in the hereafter. As long as the servant is in the help of his brother, Allah is always in the help of that person. Whoever embarks on a path to gain knowledge, Allah will make the path to Paradise easy for him. If any group sits in a mosque, reads the book of Allah and discusses among themselves, divine peace descends upon them, mercy covers them, and angels surround them from all directions. Whoever's deeds slow him down on the path to Paradise, his descendants will not lead him to Paradise.” (Muslim, Dhikr: 27; Abu Dawud, Adab: 17) Likewise, many people have narrated this hadith from A'mesh, Abu Salih, and Abu Huraira. Esbat b. Muhammad narrated from Amesh and said: "It was reported to me from Abu Salih, Abu Huraira," and he mentioned a part of this hadith.
3198-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he said: I said: O Messenger of Allah. In how many days should I read the Qur'an from beginning to end? “In a month,” he said. I said I could afford to read in less time than that, so he ordered me to read in "twenty days". I said I could afford to read in less time than that: "Then read it in fifteen days," he said. I said again that I can afford to read in a shorter time. So he said, "Read in ten days". When I said I could read in a shorter time, he did not give permission for more.” (Bukhari, Savm: 27; Muslim, Siyam: 17) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Abu Bürde's Abdullah b. It is strange as a narration from Amr. This hadith is also related to Abdullah b. It was narrated from Omar. Abdullah b. It was also narrated through Amr that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "A person who has read the Qur'an from beginning to end in less than three days has not understood what he is reading from the Qur'an." Abdullah b. It is narrated from Amr that the Prophet said to him: "Recite the Qur'an from beginning to end in forty days." Ishaq b. Ibrahim says: According to this hadith, we do not welcome the fact that a person has not read the Qur'an from beginning to end in forty days. Based on the hadith transmitted from the prophet, scholars say that the Qur'an should not be read in less than three days, while some scholars give permission for this. Osman b. It is narrated that he recited the entire Qur'an in one rak'ah that he performed as a vitreous from Afwan. Said b. It is narrated from Jubayr that he recited the Qur'an from beginning to end in one rak'ah in the Ka'ba. It is more acceptable for scholars to recite the Qur'an slowly and in order.
3199-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Amr (radiyallahu anh). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to him: "Recite the Qur'an from beginning to end in forty days." (Bukhari, Savm: 27; Muslim, Siamese: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. this hadith from Ma'mer, Simak b. Fudeyl, Vehb b. Narrated by Münebbih, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Abdullah b. They tell us that he ordered Amr to recite the Qur'an from beginning to end in forty days.
3200-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: A man, O Messenger of Allah! Which deed is more beloved to Allah? He asked, The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is the practice of a person who stays and continues on his way, that is, the person who reads the Qur'an from beginning to end, travels and stays in the world of the Qur'an, and continues on his way with a new reading." When asked what it means to stay and migrate; The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is to read the Qur'an from beginning to end and return to the beginning." (Darimi, Fedail-ul Qur'an: 27) This hadith is strange and we know it only as a narration from Ibn Abbas. It's not very solid.
3201-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muslim b. Via Ibrahim, from Salih al-Murri, from Qatada, from Zurare b. He narrated a similar hadith from Awfa to us and did not say "from Ibn Abbas". I think this narration is from Nasr b. Ali, Heysem b. It is more authentic than the narration he made from private Rabi.
3202-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), we are told that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Whoever reads the Qur'an from beginning to end in less than three days means he has not understood what he is reading from the Qur'an." (Dârimî, Fedail-ül Qur'an: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3203-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Shu'ba through Cafer with the same deed.
3204-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever talks about the verses of the Qur'an ignorantly or deliberately and makes judgments about it, let him be ready for his place in Hell." (Musnad: 1965) This hadith is hasan sahih.
3205-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "Avoid giving false hadiths from me, you can only convey what you know and what I have said. Whoever deliberately invents, utters and transmits a word on my behalf, let him prepare for his place in Hell. And whoever judges the interpretation of the Qur'an according to his own opinion and desire, let him prepare for his place in Hell." (Musnad: 1965) This hadith is hasan.
3206-) Jundup b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever speaks and judges about the verses of the Qur'an according to his own views and predictions, even if he is right, he is certainly mistaken.” (Abu Dawud, Science: 27) It has been narrated from the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and some scholars. In other words, they showed violence against the interpretation of the Qur'an ignorantly or according to one's own views and predictions. As for the narration about Qatada and many other scholars interpreting the Qur'an; they did not interpret the Qur'an by guessing. Narrations have been made to confirm what we said about the Qur'an and its interpretation, that these people do not speak without knowledge and according to their own wishes and desires. hadith scholars Süheyl b. They talked back and forth about Ebî Hazm.
3207-) Huseyn b. Mahdi al-Basri has been narrated from Ma'mer, Qatada, through Abdurrazak: "There is no verse in the Qur'an that I had not heard anything about it."
3208-) Ibn Abi Omar, Sufyan b. He narrated from A'mesh, through Uyeyne, that Mujahid said: Ibn Mas'ud, if I had read his qirat, I would not need to ask Ibn Abbas about many of the issues I asked from the Qur'an.
3209-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever performs a prayer and does not recite Surah Fatiha in that prayer, that prayer is incomplete, that prayer is incomplete. That prayer is not complete.” Abdurrahman says: I said: O Abu Huraira, sometimes I am behind the imam (what should I do?) Abu Hurayra replied: O son of Farisi, recite the Fatiha from inside. I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: I divided it into equal parts, half for me and half for my servant. My servant will achieve what he wants. The servant says: "Alhamdu lillahi Rabbil alamin". Allah says my servant has praised me. The servant says: "Errrahmanirrahîm". Allah says: My servant has praised me. The servant says: "Maliki yevmiddin". He says Allah has exalted my servant. These readings are mine. “İyyake na'büdü ve iyyake nesteîn” is the common verse between me and my servant. The end of the term belongs only to my servant. My servant will achieve what he wants. In these last verses of the Surah, the servant prays to Allah and asks him to lead him to the straight path. (Muslim, Salat: 27; Abu Dawud, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ismail b. Cafer and many others Alâ b. They narrated a similar hadith from Abdurrahman, from his father, from Abu Huraira. Cureyc and Malik b. In Enes, Ala b. Abdurrahman, Hisham b. They narrated a similar hadith from Abu Saib, the freedman of Zuhre, and from Abu Hurayra.
3210-) Likewise, Muhammad b. Yahya, Yakub b. Sufyan al-Farisi said: Ismail b. Abi Uveys from his father, Ala b. From Abdurrahman, from his father, Hisham b. From Abu's Saib, Zuhre's freed slave, these two are the two people Abu Hurayra had a conversation with. According to the narration from Abu Huraira, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Whoever performs a prayer and does not recite Surah Fatiha in that prayer is incomplete and not complete." b. There is nothing more than this in the narration of Abi Uveys. I asked Abu Zura about this hadith. Both of them are authentic, he said, and cited the narration of Ibn Abi Uveys from Ala as evidence.
3211-) Abd b. Humayd, Abdurrahman b. Through Sa'd Amr b. from ebî Kays, Simak b. From Harb, Abbad b. From Hubeyş, Adiyy b. It is narrated from Hatim: I came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) who was sitting in the Masjid. He is Hâtim. I came without anyone's protection. When I was presented to him, he took my hand and said, "Before that, I asked Allah to hold his hand in mine." He got up with me. Just then, a woman with a child greeted him and said, "We have a need to present to you." He stayed with them until he saw their need, then he took my hand and took me to his house. A girl threw a cushion and the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) sat on it. I sat in front of him. After praising Allah, he said: What is keeping you from saying "La ilaha illallah"? Or do you know a god besides Allah? I answered no, then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) spoke for a while and said: Are you avoiding saying "Allahu akbar" (Allah is the greatest) and do you recognize a being greater than Allah? I said no and continued as follows: The Jews are the people with whom Allah is angry. Christians are perverts. I said: "I became a Muslim and said I came". Then I saw his face change with joy, then he gave orders for me, I was placed in the house of one of the Ansar, and I started to go to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) morning and evening. One evening, while the Messenger of Allah was with him, a poor group dressed in striped woolen clothes came to pray, encouraged the congregation to help these people, and said: Let it be a measure, a half measure or a handful of pieces. You can protect yourself from Hell fire by giving Give with one date or with half a date... All of you will face Allah one day and Allah will say to you: Haven't I given you eyes and ears? That person will also say yes. Allah: Didn't I give you offspring? He will command. That person will also say yes, God, where is the one you sent for yourself? The person who will command will look in front of him, behind him, to his left and right, and he will not find anything to protect himself from the fire of Hell. Protect yourselves from the fire, even if each of you is with half a date. If he can't find it, let him do it with nice words. He commanded. I am not worried about poverty for you. Allah is the One who gives you everything and helps you. In fact, a woman will not be afraid of stealing a mount that will go on her own between Hira and Medina. I said to myself, where will the famous thieves of the Tayy tribe be? This hadith is hasan garib and only Simak b. We know from the narration of Harb. Shu'be Simak b. From Harb, Abbad b. Adiyy b. He narrated this hadith from Hatim with its full text at length.
3212-) Adiy b. According to the narration from Hatim (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Jews are the people with whom Allah is angry, and Christians are perverts.” Then he recited the hadith at length. (Muslim, Salat: 27; Abu Dawud, Salat: 17)
3213-) According to the narration from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Allah created Adam from the soil he took from every part of the earth. Therefore, Adam's descendants multiplied and came in as many different forms as the colors of the earth. Therefore; some are red, some are white, some are black, and some are in between. Some are soft, some are hard, some are good, some are bad.” (Abu Dawud, Sunnah: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3214-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) interpreted the 58th verse of Surah Baqara, “But enter through the gate prostrating” and said: “On that day, the Israelites did not prostrate, but their thighs. They crawled in on it.”
3215-) In the same year, the 59th verse of Bakara from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) "They changed the word into a different form than what they were told." They say, "Barley is a type of cereal". (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Tafsir: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3216-) Âmir b. According to a narration from Rabia (radiyallahu anh), she said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in a dark night on a journey, we did not know which side of the qibla was, and everyone prayed according to their own guess. In the morning, we reported the situation to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, the verse "Wherever you turn, you return to Allah", verse 115 of Surah Baqarah, was revealed. (Ibn Majah, Ikametus Salat: 27) This hadith is strange. This hadith can only be reported by Esh'as es Semman from Abu'r Rabi, Asim b. We know it from the narration he made from Ubeydullah. Ash'as is considered weak in hadith.
3217-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray supererogatory prayers on his camel, no matter which way his camel turned. In this case, he came to Medina from Mecca. (That is, with his back to the Ka'ba) Then Ibn Omar recited the 115th verse of Baccarat: “East and west both belong to Allah...” Ibn Omar said that this verse was revealed on this subject. (Bukhari, Friday: 27; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3218-) It is narrated that Qatada said the following about the 115th verse of Bakara. The provision of this verse has been abolished in the 149th verse of Al-Baqara. “Wherever you come from and wherever you are, turn your face towards Masjid al-Haram.”
3219-) Likewise, Muhammed b. Abdulmalik b. Ebuşşevarib, Yazîd b. They conveyed this hadith to us from Said and Qatada through Zuray. Mujahid interpreted "Fesemma" in verse 115 of Bakara as Allah's qibla. Abu Kureyb translated this commentary from Vekî, Nadr b. He thus conveyed it to us from Arabi and Mujahid.
3220-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), Omar said: O Messenger of Allah! said. If only we could pray behind Ibrahim's office... he said. Thereupon, the 125th verse of Bakara was revealed: “Then take the place that was once set for Abraham as a place of worship.” (Bukhari, Salat: 27; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3221-) Again, according to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), Omar said: O Messenger of Allah! I said if you had bought a prayer place from the station of Ibrahim and the 125th verse of Bakara was revealed. (Bukhari, Salat: 27; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Umar on this subject.
3222-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) interpreted the word “vasatan” in the 143rd verse of Bakara as just. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Ibn Mâce, Zuhd: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3223-) Abd b. Humayd, Cafer b. He narrated from A'mash, Abu Salih, through Avn, that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Noah will be called on the Day of Judgment and did you convey it?" He will be asked, and he will say “yes”. This time, the people of Noah were called and asked: "Did he convey the message to you?" He will ask: They will say that no warner came to us. Then it will be said to Noah, who are your witnesses? Noah will say: "Muhammad and his Ummah". Thereupon, you will be brought and you will testify about what Noah conveyed. This is the interpretation of verse 143 of Baqarah revealed by Allah: “mediocre” means just. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3224-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Cafer b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from A'mesh through Avn.
3225-) According to the narration from Bara (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to Medina, he prayed towards Masjid al-Aqsa for sixteen and seventeen months. But he would have liked to have been directed to the Ka'ba. Then Allah revealed the 144th verse of Baqarah. Thus, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was directed to the Ka'ba. He also wanted this very much. A person performed the afternoon prayer with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and stopped by a congregation of Ansar. They were in the ruku' of the afternoon prayer that they were praying towards Bayti Makdis. That person spoke by witnessing that he was praying with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and that the qibla was turned towards the Ka'ba. Thereupon, they turned towards the Ka'ba even though they were in ruku'. (Bukhari, Faith: 27; Muslim, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan. Sufyan as-Tevri narrated this hadith from Abu Ishaq.
3226-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "They were in the ruku of the morning prayer." (Tirmidhi narrated.) Amr b. From Avf el Muzeni, Ibn Omar, Imara b. Evs and Enes b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik. The hadith of Ibn Umar is hasan authentic.
3227-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was directed to the Ka'ba, the Companions said: O Messenger of Allah! they said. What will be the situation of our brothers who died while praying towards Beyt-i Makdis? Thereupon, Allah revealed the 143rd verse of the chapter of al-Baqara: "... Allah will not make your faith and the prayers you perform by returning to Jerusalem in vain..." (Abu Dawud, Sunnah: 27) This hadith is hasan.
3228-) According to the narration from Urwa (radiy-Allâhu anh), she said: I said to Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) that there is no need for anyone who does not do Sa'y between Safa and Marwa, so if I cannot make Sa'y there, I will not mind. Thereupon, Aisha said: O my sister's son, what a bad word you said! The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and the Muslims did Sa'y. However, those who entered the ihram for the idol of Manat in the place called Müşellel in the period of ignorance would not perform sa'y between Safa and Marwa. That's why Almighty Allah revealed the 158th verse of the chapter of al-Baqara. “There is no harm in going back and forth between Safa and Marwa for those who come to the Ka'ba for Hajj and Umrah.” If the matter were as you say, Allah would not have said that there is no harm in going back and forth between Safa and Marwa. says: Abu Bakr b. Abdurrahman b. Harîs b. I told Hisham, he liked it, and he said: "This is science." I have heard some scholars say: Those of the Arabs who did not sa'y between Safa and Marwa used to say that it is a matter of ignorance to say between these two stones. Others from the Ansar were also ordered to circumambulate the Ka'ba. They said that we were not ordered to say sa'y between Safa and Marwa. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 158th verse of the chapter of al-Baqara: "Safa and Marwa are one of the symbols that Allah has presented to humanity..." Abu Bakr b. Abdurrahman says, I believe that this verse was revealed about them and them. (Bukhari, Hajj: 27; Muslim, Hajj: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3229-) Asim b. According to the narration from Ahwal (radiyallahu anh), he said: Enes b. I asked Malik (radiyallahu anh) about Safa and Merve, and he said: Those two are symbols of the period of ignorance. When we became Muslims, we gave up on them. Thereupon, Allah said: “Safa and Merve are one of the symbols that Allah has presented to humanity. He sent down the verse "Hajj and Umrah..." (Baqara 158). Therefore, to say Sa'y between Safa and Marwa is tatavvu, that is, nafilah, and it is not wâjib. “For, whoever breaks his heart and increases goodness, let him know that Allah is grateful and all-knowing.” (Baqara: 158) (Bukhari, Hajj: 27; Muslim, Hajj: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3230-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) when he came to Makkah. After walking around the Ka'ba seven times, he read the 125th verse of Bakara: "... Then take the place that was set for Abraham as a place of worship for yourself..." and prayed behind the office, then went to Hacer-ül Esved. He came to the top of Safa and read the 158th verse of Bakara. (Muslim, Hajj: 27; Nesai, Menasik: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3231-) According to a narration from Bara (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to do as follows when fasting was first obligatory: If a fasting person fell asleep without breaking his fast, he would not be able to eat anything at night, until evening, or during the day. Kays b. Sirme was fasting. When it was time for iftar, he came to his wife and did he have any food with him? she asked. He also said no. But he said let me find you something to eat. When his wife came to him, he found his husband, who had been working all day and was tired, asleep and said to you. When the day came halfway, Kays fainted and fell. The situation was explained to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the 187th verse of Bakara was revealed. Muslims were very happy with this verse “... and you can eat and drink from the darkness of the night until the light of the dawn is noticed...” (Bukhari, Savm: 27; Nasai, Siyam: 17) This hadith is hasan.
3232-) Numân b. According to the narration from Bashir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said in the 60th verse of the chapter of Mu’min; He said, "Your Lord says, pray for me so that I may accept your prayer..." and he read the verse to the end. (Ibn Majah, Dua: 57) As a Mansur narration, this hadith is hasan.
3233-) Adiy b. According to the narration from Hatim (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the 187th verse of Baqarah was revealed, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "It is the selection of the whiteness of the day from the darkness of the night". (Bukhari, Savm: 27; Muslim, Siyam: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3234-) Ahmed b. Through Müni' Hüseym, from Mucalid, from Şa'bî, from Adiyy b. They conveyed a similar hadith to us from Hatim.
3235-) Adiy b. According to the narration from Hatim (radiyallahu anh), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) about fasting, "He recited verse 187 of Al-Baqara." So I bought two threads, one white and the other black, and started looking at them. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said something to me -Sufyan could not memorize this thing-and he said that it is really night and day. (Bukhari, Savm: 27; Muslim, Siyam: 17) the hadith is hasan sahih.
3236-) According to the narration from Eslem Abu Imran et Tucibî (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were in Istanbul, a Greek city. The Greeks brought a large army against us. Against them, as many or more soldiers from the Muslims were raised. As a commander at the head of the Egyptians, Ukbe b. There was Amir. The commander of the army was Fedâle b. It was Ubaid. A soldier from the Muslims attacked the ranks of the Greeks and entered among them. The soldiers shouted, "Subhanallah". This person is putting himself in danger with his own hand. Thereupon, Abu Ayyub stepped forward and said: O people! You are trying to interpret this verse (Baqara 195), this is your interpretation. This verse was revealed about us Ansar community. When Allah strengthened Islam and increased his helpers, we wasted a lot of our belongings without informing the Prophet; We did not take care of our goods. Allah strengthened Islam and increased its helpers. Now, we said that if we sat down and busy with our goods, we would make up for the things we neglected. In response to this word of ours, Allah revealed the following verse: (Baqara: 195) “Spend abundantly from what has been given to you in the way of Allah. Thus, do not put yourself in danger with your own hands by not using it while you have found the opportunity to gain Paradise for you…” Danger: Sitting on wealth is trying to increase and improve them, and abandoning jihad in the way of Allah. Abu Ayyub was martyred by continuing the jihad in the way of Allah and was buried in Greek land. (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3237-) Ka'b b. According to the narration from Ucre (radiyallahu anh), he said: I swear by Allah, who holds my whole being, that this verse was revealed about me and Allah meant me there. “... but anyone among you who is sick or has a headache should do something to make up for it by fasting or giving alms or sacrificing if he shaves before because of this.” (Baqara 196) Ka'b b. Ucre says: We were together with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in Hudaybiyya as Ihram. my hair had grown up to the earlobe, there were so many lice that it started to fall on my face. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) stopped by me and said, lice in your hair must be bothering you. I said yes, too. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: Shave and this verse was revealed. He says: Fasting is three days, food is for six poor people. Sacrifice is sheep and the like.
3238-) Ali b. Hucr, from Abu Bishr, Mujahid, Abdurrahman b. from ebî Layla, Ka'b b. They conveyed a similar hadith to us from Ucre. (Bukhari, Hajj: 27; Muslim, Hajj: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3239-) Ali b. Hucr, through Huseym, Eş'as b. From Sevvar, Sha'bi, Abdullah b. From Ma'kil, Ka'b b. They conveyed a similar hadith to us from Ucre. This hadith is hasan authentic. Abdurrahman b. al Isbahani, Abdullah b. He narrated a hadith close to this from Ma'kil.
3240-) Ka'b b. According to the narration from Ucre (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to me and I was burning the bottom of a pot. Lice were falling from my forehead and eyebrows. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) asked, do the lice on your head bother you? He commanded. I said yes, too. Then shave your head, either sacrifice an animal, fast for three days, or feed six poor people. Ayyub says: "I do not know which of these three things Mujahid mentioned first." (Bukhari, Hajj: 27; Muslim, Hajj: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3241-) Abdurrahman b. According to a narration from Ya'mur (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Hajj is Arafat, Hajj is Arafat, Hajj is Arafat, and the days of Mina are three days." (Baqara 203) “... Whoever returns from Mina to Mecca in two days, there will be no sin for him, and whoever stays back will not commit sin if he finds his way with Allah and the book...” The person who caught Arafat before Fajr was born, made it to Hajj. It is possible. (Nesâî, Menasik: 2; Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 27) Ömer, Sûfyan b. Narrated by Uyeyna, he said: "This hadith is the best hadith narrated by Thawri." This hadith is hasan authentic. hadith Shu'be, Bukayr b. He narrated from Ata. This hadith only Bukayr b. We know it as the narration of Ata.
3242-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said about verse 204 of Baqarah: “The person whom Allah dislikes the most is the one who puts religious clothes on his speech, which is the worst of his enemies.” (Bukhari, Mazâlim: 27; Muslim, Science: 17) This hadith is hasan.
3243-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When Jewish women were menstruating, they would not eat or drink together with them, and they would not be with them at home. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about this situation, and Allah revealed the 222nd verse of Bakara. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered them to eat and drink together with women and to be together except for sexual intercourse. Thereupon, the Jews said: They oppose us in every matter. Abbad b. Bishr and Useyd b. Hudayr came with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and informed him of this situation, and so that we can oppose everything, can we not have sexual intercourse while we are menstruating? they asked. The face of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) suddenly changed and we realized that he was angry with both of us. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent a man after them and made them drink milk from this gift. So we understood that he was angry with us. (Muslim, Hayz: 27; Nesai, Hayz: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3244-) Muhammed b. Abdul A'la (radiyallahu anh), Abdurrahman b. Hammad b. They conveyed a similar hadith to us from Salama, Sabit and Anas.
3245-) According to the narration from Ibn al-Munkadir and Jabir through Ibn Abi Omar Sufyan, the Jews used to say: "If a person approaches his wife from behind and has sexual intercourse and has a child, that child will be cross-eyed." Verse 223 of Bakara was revealed: “Your women are your fields that raise generations for you. Therefore, come to your field as you wish..." (Muslim, Hayz: 27; Nesai, Hayz: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3246-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about the 223rd verse of Bakara: (Musnad: 25387) This hadith is hasan. Ibn Hushaym; Abdullah b. Osman. Ibn Thabit; Abdurrahman b. Abdullah b. Thabit al-Jumahi is from Mecca. She is the daughter of Abdurrahman, son of Abu Bakr es Siddik. Mana means that you are one and approach from a single hole.
3247-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), Umar came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said, "I am destroyed." What is it that destroyed you in the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)? He commanded. Ömer said: I got on the wrong way to my board tonight, so I approached my wife from behind. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) did not respond to him, and verse 223 of Baqarah was revealed immediately, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Approach from the front or from the back to the front, but avoid the anus and menstruation.” (Musnad: 2569) This hadith is hasan authentic. Yakub b. Abdullah al-Ash'ari; He is Yakub al-Qummi.
3248-) Ma'kil b. According to the narration from Yesâr (radiy-Allâhu anh); Ma'kil married his sister to a Muslim during the time of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). This woman stayed with that person for a certain period of time. Then that person divorced this woman with a talaq and did not apply to her until the waiting period expired. Then the woman wanted that man and that man wanted the woman. He wanted that woman, along with many other pastoralists. Ma'kil said to him, "Hey confused man, you divorced him while I gave him to you and married you, I swear he can't come back to you forever. "You have nothing to do with him," he said. God knew that this man needed that woman and that woman needed this man. That's why he revealed the 232nd verse of the chapter of al-Baqara: "When you divorce your wives, and when the waiting period ends, do not hinder them if they have come to a good agreement with their husbands. This is a warning for each of you who believe in Allah and the Last Day, and it is the most virtuous and purest path for you. God knows, you don't know." When Ma'kil heard this, it is my duty to listen to my Lord and obey, then she called her ex-husband and I will marry you and give you a treat. (Ibn Majah, Talak: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith has been narrated from Hasan-i Basri in another way and is strange. There is a sign in this hadith that marriage without guardians is not permissible. Because Ma'kil's sister was a widow. If the marriage was in his own hands, apart from his parents, he would marry himself. He would not need ma'kil. Finally, in this verse, Allah addresses the parents as follows: “...if they have agreed, do not hinder them...” In this verse; There is a sign that the authority to marry belongs to the parents, with the consent of the woman.
3249-) According to the narration from Abu Yunus, the freed slave of Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: Aisha ordered me to write a mushaf for her, and she said, notify me when she comes to the 238th verse of Bakara. When I came to this verse, I informed him. He had me dictate this verse, saying, "Continue the prayers, the middle prayer, the afternoon prayer, and stand in the presence of Allah with sincere devotion," and he said, "I heard this from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Muslim, Masajid: 27; Nasai, Salat: 17) hadiths were also reported from Hafsa. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3250-) Samura b. According to a narration from Jundub (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The middle prayer is the afternoon prayer." (Musnad: 19224) This hadith is hasan sahih.
3251-) According to the narration from Ubayda es Salmani (radiy-Allâhu anh), Ali narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to him on the day of the Battle of the Trench: “O Allah, middle prayer until the sun goes down = because they keep us busy from Asr. Therefore, fill the graves and houses of those polytheists with fire.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Masajid: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Ali in different ways. Abu Hassan al A'rec's name is Muslim.
3252-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The middle prayer is the afternoon prayer." (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Masacid: 17) Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit, Abu Hashim, Utba and Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3253-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Erkam (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We used to talk in prayer in the days when prayer was first obligatory at the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Masajid: 17)
3254-) Ahmed b. Meni', through Hüseym İsmail b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abi Khalid to us and added the following: "We are forbidden to speak in prayer." This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Amr al-Shaybani is Sa'd b. It is Iyas.
3255-) According to the narration from Bara (radiyallahu anh), he said about the 267th verse of Baccarat: "Do not choose the bad one to give to others!" This verse was revealed about us Ansar community. We had dates, everyone brought more or less of their dates according to their situation. A person would come to one or two clusters, hit it with his stick, and eat the fresh and dry dates. There were some people who did not have eyes, one of them would bring a date branch with bad and worthless dates on it or a broken date branch and hang it in the mosque. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 267th verse of Bakara: O you who believe! Spend on other than the good things you have earned, and the produce that we have produced for you from the earth; especially don't choose the bad one, do you donate what you can't take without closing your eyes...? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If one of you is given the like of what he gave, he will take it with a blind eye and shame. After that, we brought the best of the products we had.” (Ibn Majah, Zakat: 27) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. Abu Malik is from Gıfar and it is said that his name is Gazvan. Thawri narrated a hadith close to this from Suddi.
3256-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The devil gives delusions to human beings, and an angel inspires them. The delusion of the devil is to lead to evil and to make the truth lie. The inspiration of the angel is to lead to good deeds and confirm the truth. Whoever finds in his conscience to turn to good deeds and to confirm the truth should know that it is from Allah and let him praise Allah. And whoever finds the delusion of the devil in his conscience should seek refuge in Allah from the stoned and expelled devil.” Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) recited the 268th verse of Surat al-Baqara: “Satan frightens you with the possibility of poverty and orders you to be stingy...” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib, as narrated by Abu'l Ahvas. As Merfu, we know it only through the narration of Abu'l Ahvas.
3257-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “O people! Allah is clean but only accepts the clean ones. He read the 51st verse of the chapter of Mu'minun, saying, "What Allah commanded His prophets, He also ordered his believers": "O prophets! Take your share of the pure and legitimate blessings of the life of this world, and do righteous deeds, for I know exactly what you are doing.” He also read the 172nd verse of Bakara: “O you who believe! Enjoy the good things we have provided for you and give thanks to Allah, if you only serve Allah.” Abu Huraira said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) talked about a man who made long expeditions, his hair is messy, his face is covered with dust, he stretches out his hand and prays, saying, "O my Lord, Ya Rabbi." However, what he eats is haram, what he drinks is haram, what he wears is haram, and he constantly fed on haram. How is the prayer of such a person accepted? (Muslim, Zakat: 27; Dârimî, Rikak: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was only reported by Fudeyl b. We know from the narration of Mersuk. Abu Hazım is called from Eşcaî, his name is Salman. He is the freed slave of Azze el Eşcaî.
3258-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the verse 284 of Surat al-Baqara, “…whether you reveal or hide what you have in mind, Allah will certainly take account of you…” was revealed, we were saddened. We said to ourselves: One of us will go through something and he will be held accountable for it, and we will not know what is forgiven and what is not. After that verse, the 286th verse of Bakara was revealed and abolished the provision of this verse: “Allah does not burden anyone with more than they can bear. Every good thing a person does is for his own benefit, and every evil is to his own detriment.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3259-) According to the narration from Umayya (radiy-Allâhu anha), he himself told Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) with the 284th verse of Bakara and the 123rd verse of the chapter of Nisa: “… whoever does a wrong will be punished with it.” He asked for the interpretation of the verse. Upon this, Aisha said: No one has asked me about the interpretation of this verse since I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The subject in this verse is condemned because of a malaria disease that the servant caught, or a misfortune that befell him, or because he felt sorry for a small amount of worldly goods that he lost. In the end, the servant is cleansed of his sins just as the mine is cleaned from the crimson fire. (Musnad: 24651) As the hadith of Aisha, this hadith is hasan garib. Only Hammad b. We know from the Salama narration.
3260-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the 284th verse of Bakara was revealed, our hearts were in such trouble. We had not seen such a problem until that day. The Companions presented the situation to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Allah placed faith in their hearts, so Allah sent down the 285. 286 verses of the chapter of al-Baqara. “The Prophet believed in what was revealed to him from his Lord, and the believers also believed. Each of them; They believe in Allah, His angels, His books and His messengers and make no distinction between His messengers. We heard, we obeyed, we ask you to forgive us. Because you are the destination of all journeys, they say. God does not burden anyone with more than they can bear. Every good thing a person does is for his own benefit, and every evil is to his own detriment. O our Lord! Don't question us if we forget or make mistakes unknowingly! (Allah: I will not question him) O our Lord! Do not place a heavy burden on us as you did on those before us. (Allah said: I will not upload it) O our Lord! Do not make us carry loads that we cannot bear. Forgive our sins, forgive us and have mercy on us. (Allah said, OK, I just did it) (Muslim, Faith: 187) This hadith is hasan. It has also been narrated from Ibn Abbas in different ways. Adam b. Süleyman, Yahya b. He is Adam's father. A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira on the subject.
3261-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “…Those whose hearts are inclined to deviate from the truth, just to find things that will confuse them, and I asked him about the interpretation of the verse, "They follow the part of the book called mutashabih in order to give it arbitrary meanings..." and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When you see them, know yourself and avoid them." Yazid said: “When you see them, recognize them and stay away from them.” He repeated this word two or three times. (Bukhari, Tafsir al-Qur'an: 27; Muslim: Science: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3262-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked about the interpretation of the 7th verse of the chapter of Aal-i Imran. When you see those who follow, they are those whom Allah has named as those whose hearts go astray, so beware of them.” (Bukhari, Tafsir al-Qur'an: 27; Muslim: Science: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith was narrated from Ayyub, Ibn Abi Mulayka, and as the hadith of Aisha. Many people narrated this hadith from Ibn Abi Mulayka and Aisha, and in their deed, "Qasim b. They did not mention "Muhammad". In the document of this hadith, Qasim b. Muhammad only Yazid b. Ibrahim et Tusteri mentions it. ebi Muleyke; Abdullah b. Ubeydullah b. He was Abi Mulayke and heard hadith from Aisha.
3263-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Every prophet has a friend from other prophets. My friend is my ancestor, Halil İbrahim.” Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) recited the 68th verse of Âl-i Imran: “The closest people to Abraham are those who follow him, this prophet and those who believe in him. And Allah is the closest friend of the believers and the One who corrects and manages all their affairs.” (Musnad: 3609)
3264-) Sufyan through Mahmud Abu Nuaym, from his father, Abu'd Duha and Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Mas'ud and did not mention "Masruk" in his deed. This narration is stronger than Abu'd Duha's narration from Masruk. Abu'd Duha's name is Muslim b. He is Sabîh.
3265-) Abu Kureyb, from Sufyan through Vekî, from his father, Abu'd Duha and Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith of Abu Nuaym from Mas'ud; there is no Masruk in this narration.
3266-) According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever takes an oath to acquire the property of a Muslim, even though he is a liar, will find Allah enraged against him.” Eş'as b. Kays said: This hadith was said about me; as follows: There was a land issue between me and a Jew. Then the Jew denied my right. Thereupon, I took him to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). Messenger of Allah, do you have any proof for me? He commanded. I said no too. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to take an oath to Judah, so I said, "O Messenger of Allah! I said he would take an oath and take my property. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 77th verse of the chapter of Aal-i Imran: “Indeed, those who change their promises and oaths against Allah for a small gain; they will not be able to benefit from the blessings of the next world. On the Day of Judgment, Allah will neither speak to them nor look at them, nor will He purify them of their sins. For them is a painful chastisement.” (Bukhari, Musakat: 85; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abi Awfa on this subject.
3267-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The 92nd verse of Âl-i Imran: “… O believers! You cannot attain true virtue and goodness unless you spend from the things you love to others for the sake of Allah…” and verse 245 of the chapter of Baqarah: Abu Talha had a garden. He said, "O Messenger of Allah! My garden is a foundation for Allah. "If I could do this in secret, I wouldn't disclose it here," he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Leave it as an inheritance to your relatives and relatives." (Bukhari, Zakat: 27; Muslim, Zakat: 17) This hadith is hasan. Malik b. Enes reported this hadith from Ishaq b. Abdullah b. Ebî Talha and Enes b. He narrated from Malik.
3268-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), a man said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) "Who is the real pilgrim?" she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied, "A slave with disheveled hair, away from ornaments and showing off." Someone else got up and asked, "Which pilgrimage is more virtuous?" The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is the pilgrimage, in which the voices of talbiyah and takbir are raised, and the blood of the sacrifice is shed." Another stood up and said: “What is the condition of being able to travel for Hajj? When he was asked, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "It is food and a lot". (Ibn Mace, Menasik: 27) Ibrahim b. We know it through the narration of Yazid al-Khuzi al-Makki. Some hadith scholars such as Ibrahim b. They criticized Yazid for his memory.
3269-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Ebî Vakkâs (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Come! When the verse "let's call our sons, your sons, your women, your women, we, you, all of us" was revealed, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Ali called Fatima, Hasan and Husayn and O Allah, they are from my family." (Musnad: 1522) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
3270-) According to the narration from Abu Ghalib (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abu Umama saw heads hanging from the poles of the mosque in Damascus and said: "The dogs of Hell are the worst of those killed under the sky... those whom they killed are also the best of those killed." Then he read the 106th verse of the chapter of Aal-i Imran: “On that day of reckoning, when some faces shine with happiness and some faces turn black from suffering, they say to those whose faces turn black: “Did you cover up the truths that came from Allah after you believed? It will be said, 'Taste this torment because you have concealed those truths.' I asked Abu Umama, did you hear this from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), he replied: This is from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); If I had not heard it one, two, three, four, five, six, seven times, I would not have conveyed it to you (that is, I am transmitting it because I hear more). (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan. Abu Gâlib's name is "Hazevver". The name of Abu Umama al-Bahili was Suday b. Aclan is the leader of the Bahile tribe.
3271-) Behz b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Hakim (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah is about the 110th verse of Behz Âl-i Imran: He heard the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "You are completing the seventieth community of nations that have passed by on earth, and you are the best of them all and the most worthy of honor in the sight of Allah." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) The hadith is hasan. Many people like this hadith from Behz b. They narrated from Hakim as here, but they did not mention the part of "You are the best nation brought out from among the people".
3272-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), the face of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was split open on the day of Uhud and blood spilled onto his face. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "How can a nation that does this to the prophets who invite them to Allah find success? Thereupon, Allah revealed the 128th verse of the chapter of Aal-i Imran: “Nothing of the deeds of my servants belongs to you. Allah either accepts their repentance or punishes them for acting contrary to their reason for existence.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3273-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had his face split, his tooth broken, and an arrow wound on his shoulder during the Battle of Uhud. Blood began to flow from his face, wiping his blood and saying, "How will a nation that does this to their prophets who invite them to Allah find salvation?" he was commanding. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 128th verse of the chapter of Aal-i Imran. (Muslim, Jihad: 27; Ibn Majah, Fitan: 17) b. I heard Humayd say: Yazid b. Aaron was wrong in this hadith. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3274-) According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed as follows on the day of the Battle of Uhud: "O Allah! Curse Abu Sufyan away from your mercy. my god! Harîs b. Curse Hisham by turning him away from your mercy. my god! Saffan b. Curse Umayya away from his mercy.” Umar said: Thereupon, the 128th verse of Al-i Imran was revealed. Then Allah forgave them. They became Muslims and their Islam was perfect. (Musnad: 5550) This hadith is hasan garib. Umar b. Hamza's narration from Salim and his father is seen as strange. Zuhri narrated this hadith from Salim and his father. b. Ismail, Amr b. He does not know Hamza's narration, but he knows Zuhri's narration.
3275-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to curse four people. Thereupon, Allah sent Âl-i Imran verse 128: “Nothing from the deeds of my servants belongs to you, O Prophet! If Allah wills, He may accept their repentance or punish them for acting contrary to their reason for existence.” (Bukhari, Maghazi: 17; Nesai, Applied: 27) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. Nafi'in was seen as strange as a narration from Ibn Omar. Yahya b. Ayyub narrated this hadith from Ibn Aclan.
3276-) Esma b. According to the narration from Hakam al-Farazi (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard Ali say: “When I heard a hadith from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), Allah used to make me use it as He wished. When one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) narrated a hadith to me, I would make him swear, and if he took an oath, I would confirm that it was a hadith. Abu Bakr once narrated a hadith to me. Abu Bakr is a truthful person. He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: Whoever commits a sin, then gets up, prays, and asks for forgiveness from Allah, Allah will surely forgive him. Then he recited the 135th verse of the chapter of Aal-i Imran: “And when they do something shameful or act contrary to their existence, they remember Allah and beg for the forgiveness of their sins. After all, who can forgive sins but Allah? They do not deliberately persist in their sins and wrongdoings.” (Ibn Mâce, İkame: 27) This hadith is related to Shu'be and many others to Osman b. They narrated the same hadith from Muğîre as merfu. In Mis'ar and Sûfyan, Osman b. They narrated it from Mughira without merfu. Some of them also narrated from Mis'ar as maqquf, and some of them narrated it as merfu. Sûfyan es Sevrî, Osman, narrated from Muğîre as mehkuf. Esma b. We do not know of any other hadith narrated by al-Hakim.
3277-) According to the narration from Abu Talha (radiyallahu anh), he said: In the battle of Uhud, I lifted my head and looked to my right and left. At that time, there was no one among the Muslims who did not bow their heads due to slumber in the trench of their shield. This is the event stated in the 154th verse of the chapter of Aal-i Imran: "Then, after this grief, Allah gave you a sense of security and an inner calm that envelops some of you, a state of slumber..." ( Bukhari, Maghazi: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3278-) Abd b. Humayd, Rawh b. Ubade through Hammad b. From Seleme, Hisham b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Urwa, his father and Zubayr.
3279-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), Abu Talha said: “While we were in the position of battle on the day of the Battle of Uhud, we fell asleep. Abu Talha: I was one of those who fell asleep that day, my sword was falling out of my hand, I was picking it up and it was falling again. There was another group of people who were hypocrites. They were very fearful, very skeptical of the right.” (Bukhari, Maghazi, 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3280-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), verse 161 of the chapter of Aal-i Imran was revealed about a red velvet dress lost on the day of Badr. Some people even said that day: Maybe the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took him. Allah sent down this verse: "It is not for a prophet to betray the booty..." (Abu Dawud, Huruf: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. Abdusselam b. Harb narrated a similar hadith from Husayf. Some narrated this hadith from Husayf and Miksam and did not say "from Ibn Abbas" in his deed.
3281-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) met me and O Jabir, why do I see you offended? said. I said: O Messenger of Allah! I said that my father was martyred on the day of Uhud, he left behind debts and children. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), shall I tell you how your father was received by Allah? Me too, O Messenger of Allah! said. They said: God spoke to a person only from behind a curtain. However, he resurrected your father and spoke face to face without a veil and said: O my servant, ask me to give you your wish, O my Lord, resurrect me so that I will be killed a second time in your way. Allah also said: According to the 95th verse of the chapter of Anbiya, it is not possible to return to the world and the 169th verse of Al-i Imran was revealed: “But do not think that those who are killed in the way of Allah are dead. No, they are alive. They are provided with their Lord.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 122) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. b. Muhammed b. Akil narrated some of this hadith from Jabir. This hadith was only reported by Musa b. We know from the narration of Abraham. Ali b. Abdullah al-Madinî and many leading hadith scholars reported this hadith from Musa b. It was transmitted to us from Abraham.
3282-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he was asked about the interpretation of the 169th verse of Al-i Imran, and he said: They wander in Paradise as they wish, then turn to lamps hanging on the Throne. God turned to them and said: Do you want something to be increased so that I can increase it for you. And they said, "O our Lord. We are in Paradise, wandering as we please. Then God looked at them a second time and said: Is there anything else you want in addition? Shall I raise it for you immediately? When they saw that they would not be left without asking their Lord for something, they said: "Turn our souls to our corpses so that we can return to the world and become martyrs for the second time in your way." (However, this is not possible according to the 95th verses of Anbiya.) (Muslim, Imara: 27; Ibn Majah, Jihad: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3283-) Ibn Abi Omar, through Sufyan, Ata b. They narrated a similar hadith from Ibn Mas'ud from Saib, Abu Ubayda, and added: "Convey your greetings to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and tell him that we are pleased with you and we are pleased with you. let me know.” This hadith is hasan.
3284-) According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he narrated the following as a merfu: Allah will put a snake around the neck of every person who does not pay Zakat on his property on the Day of Judgment. Then, he recited the 180th verse of the chapter of Aal-i Imran accordingly: “Those who are stingy in spending the wealth that Allah has bestowed upon them should not think that the wealth they have accumulated is good for them. On the contrary, it is very bad for them. What they cling to so meanly will be put on their necks like a leash on the Day of Judgment. For Allah's is the inheritance of the heavens and the earth, and all will be left to Him. And Allah is Aware of everything you do.” Abdullah b. On another occasion, Mas'ud recited the same verse of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in accordance with this. He who embezzled his brother's property by false oath will find Allah angry with him on the Day of Judgment. He recited the 77th verse of Al-i Imran accordingly: ; they will not be able to benefit from the blessings of the next world. On the Day of Judgment, Allah will neither speak to them nor look at them, nor will He purify them of their sins. There is a painful punishment for them.” (Nasai, Zakat: 27; Ibn Majah, Zakat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3285-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: An earth the size of a whip in Paradise is better than this world and everything in it. If you wish, read the 185th verse of Âl-i Imran “…Those who will be removed from the fire and placed in Paradise, have attained real salvation. For, indulging in this worldly life is nothing but a deceptive pleasure.” (Dârimî, Rikak: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3286-) Marwan b. According to the narration from al-Hakim (radiyallahu anh), he said to Rafi, who was the porter of the merwan, "Go, tell Ibn Abbas, if everyone is happy for what he has done and wants to be praised for what he has not done, we will all be punished." Abbas said: What is this verse to you? Because this verse was revealed about the people of the book, Jews and Christians. Then Ibn Abbas recited the 187th verse of Âl-i Imran: “Allah had taken a firm promise from those who were given the book that you would definitely reveal that book to people and not hide it. However, they ignored it and exchanged it for a small gain. What a bad deal it was.” Afterwards, he recited verse 188: “Those who rejoice in their evil deeds and want to be praised for the good they have not done, do not think that their behavior is right, and do not think that they will escape the punishment; there is a painful punishment for them.” Ibn Abbas continued: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) asked the people of the Book about something, but they concealed that truth and said something else and left. They were also happy that they did not say what was asked of them and went away. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul-Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-ul-Munafiq: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3287-) Muhammed b. According to the narration from Munkadir (radiyallahu anh); Jabir b. He told that he had heard from Abdullah: I was sick. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to visit me and I was unconscious. When I sobered up, I asked how I should act on my property. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) kept silent and the 11th verse of the chapter of Nisa was revealed: "Allah commands you about the inheritance that your children will receive: The man will receive an amount equal to the share of two women..." (Bukhari, Voodoo: 27; Muslim, Feraiz: 17 ) This hadith is hasan authentic. Many people refer to this hadith as Muhammad b. They narrated from Munkadir.
3288-) Fadl b. Sabah al-Baghdadi conveyed a similar hadith to us from Ibn al-Munkadir and Jabir through Sufyan, and Fadl b. The hadith of Sabbah is longer than this one.
3289-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: On the day of the Awtas war, some women whose husbands were among the polytheists fell to us as concubines as concubines, among the spoils of war, but some people did not like to have sexual relations with these women. He sent down the verse .: "All married women are forbidden to you, except the concubines you captured during the war..." (Muslim, Rada: 27; Nesai, Nikah: 17) This hadith is hasan.
3290-) Again, according to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: On the day of the Awtas war, some captive women, whose husbands were in their own community, fell to our share as a share of the booty. The Muslims explained the situation to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and Allah revealed the 24th verse of the chapter of Nisa. (Muslim, Rada: 27; Nesai, Nikah: 17) This hadith is hasan. Likewise, Sevri narrated a similar hadith from Osman al Betti, Abu'l Khalil, Abu Said al-Khudri, and there is no "Abu Alkame" in his deed. I do not know anyone who mentions "Abu Alkama" in this hadith. However, Hemmâm mentioned him in his narration from Qatada. Abu'l Halil's name was Salih b. Ebi Meryem.
3291-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about major sins: “Associating partners with Allah, rebelling against parents, killing people, witnessing falsehood or telling lies.” (This hadith is the interpretation of the 31st verse of the chapter of Nisa) (Bukhari, Shahada: 27; Muslim, Eyman: 17) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. Rawh b. Ubade narrated this hadith from Shu'ba and in the document of the hadith, Ubeydullah b. Abdurrahman b. It has been said that Abu Bakr is not correct.
3292-) According to a narration from Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Shall I not tell you about the greatest of sins?" The Companions said, “Yes, O Messenger of Allah!” they said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Associating partners with Allah, disobeying parents" While lying down, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) straightened himself up and repeated this last sentence: "false witnessing and telling lies" so much that I wish he had kept silent. we said. (Bukhari, Shahada: 27; Muslim, Eyman: 17) This hasan garib is authentic.
3293-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Unays al-Juheni (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The major sins are as follows: associating partners with Allah, disobedience to parents and false oaths; If a person takes an oath when necessary and infects that oath with a lie as big as a mosquito's wing, he will remain a stain in his heart until the Day of Judgment.” (Musnad: 15465) Abu Umama al-Ansari is the son of Salebe, we do not know his name. He narrated many hadiths from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). The hadith is hasan garib.
3294-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “These are some of the major sins. Associating partners with Allah, disobeying parents or taking a false oath.” While saying the third, Shu'ba hesitated. (Bukhari, Eyman: 27; Nesai, Tahrim-üd Dem: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3295-) According to the narration from Mujahid (radiyallahu anh), he told Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha) "Men are fighting, women are not fighting and we women get half a share from the inheritance." said. Allah revealed the 32nd verse of the chapter of Nisa: “Then, do not envy the blessings that Allah has given to some more than others…” Mujahid said: Allah revealed the 35th verse of the chapter of Ahzab about Umm Salama. Umm Salama is the first woman to migrate alone from Mecca to Medina. (Musnad: 25511) This hadith is mursal. Some have narrated this hadith from Abu Najih as a mursal from Mujahid, saying: "Abu Salamah said such and such".
3296-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha), she said: "O Messenger of Allah, he did not hear that Allah spoke of women about the migration." Thereupon, Allah revealed the 195th verse of the chapter of Aal-i Imran. “As a matter of fact, their Lord answered their prayers by accepting them; I will not fail the efforts of any of those who strive in my way, whether male or female. For you are all descended from one another.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3297-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked Abdullah to recite the Qur'an while he was sitting on the pulpit. So I started to read from the chapter of Nisa, when the 41st verse: "So when we will bring witnesses from every community on the day of judgment and we will make you as a witness over them, O Prophet, what will happen to the state of those sinners", he pointed with his hand, saying that it would be enough for me. I looked at him and tears were dripping from his eyes. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 17) Abu'l Ahvas also narrates from A'mesh, Ibrahim, Alkame and Abdullah. However, the correct narration is that of Ibrahim from Ubayda and Abdullah.
3298-) According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to me, O Abdullah, read the Qur'an for me. I asked if I would recite the Qur'an that was revealed to you, and they said: "I like to listen to someone else." (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 17) This hadith is stronger than the hadith of Abu'l Ahvas.
3299-) Suveyd b. Nadr, through Ibn al-Mubarak, narrated from Sufyan, Amesh, similar to the narration of Muawiya bin Hisham.
3300-) Ali b. According to the narration from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Abdurrahman b. Avf had a meal prepared for us and invited us before alcohol was banned. He fed us food and made us drink wine. The wine got us drunk so that the prayer time came and they put me forward to be the imam. I also read the chapter of Kafirun as "O unbelievers, I do not worship what you worship, but we worship what you worship" due to drunkenness. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 43rd verse of the chapter of Nisa: "O you who believe, do not come close to praying while you are drunk and wait until you know what you are saying..." (Abu Dawud, Ashribe: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3301-) Urve b. According to the narration from Zubayr (radiyallahu anh), Abdullah b. Zubayr narrated as follows: A man from the Ansar sued Zubayr to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) about the Hare river, where they watered the date palms. Ansari said let the water come to me. Zubayr did not accept this. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to Zubayr, O water the Zubayr date palm and send the water to your neighbor. Thereupon, Ansari got angry and said, O Messenger of Allah! said. Zubayr said, 'Did you talk like that because you are still your son? The color of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) changed and he said: "O Zubayr! Trap the water until it's over your palm with water. (salma)" Zubayr said: The 65th verse of Surah Nisa was revealed on this subject: "No, no, by your Lord, they really do not, unless you make the Prophet the arbitrator in all matters in which they disagree, and then they submit to your decision with complete submission without feeling any trouble in their hearts. they would not believe.” (Bukhari, Musakat: 27; Muslim, Fezail: 17) I heard Muhammad say: Ibn Wahb reported this hadith from Leys b. From Sa'd, Yunus, Zuhri, Urve, Abdullah b. Zubayr in a similar way and in the deed of the hadith, “Abdullah b. It does not say "From Zubayr".
3302-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiyallahu anh), he said about the 88th verse of the chapter of Nisa: In the battle of Uhud, some of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) withdrew from the war. Muslims took two sides about these; Some of them said they should be killed, the other side said no. Thereupon, the 88th verse of Nisa was revealed: "What is the matter with you, that you are divided into two groups among you, some of you taking a side with them and some of them against them? However, Allah has turned them upside down because of their deeds. Do you want to guide those whom Allah has led astray to the straight path? You will not find a way out for what Allah has left in error.” Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "It is a clean place in Medina." He continued: "It removes the dirt among the Muslims in Medina, just as the fire cleans and removes the dirt from the mines." (Bukhari, Hajj: 27; Muslim, Hajj: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abdullah b. Yazid; al-Ansari is al-Hatmi and he is a Companion.
3303-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: The victim and the murderer will come together on the Day of Judgment. The murderer will be held by his head and hair, and even though blood is gushing from his neck veins, he will say: "O Lord, this one killed me", and he will be brought closer to the Throne. Amr b. Dinar said: They asked Ibn Abbas about the murderer's repentance, and he read the 93rd verse of Surah Nisa: "But whoever kills a believer deliberately, his punishment is Hell, in which he will stay forever. Allah was angry with him in this world and kept him away from His mercy in the next world and prepared a great punishment for him.” and continued as follows: “The provision of this verse has not been abolished and has not been changed. Where is the opportunity to repent to him?” (Nesai, Tahrim-üd Dem: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. Some say this hadith from Amr b. They narrated it from Dinar in a similar way, without compromising Ibn Abbas.
3304-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: While a man from Bani Sulaym was grazing his sheep, he encountered a detachment of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and greeted them. They saluted you to protect you from you, got up and killed him when they were convinced, and took his sheep to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Allah revealed the 94th verse of the chapter of Nisa: "Then, O you who believe, try to understand clearly the situation you face when you go to war in the way of Allah, and to anyone who offers you peace or announces that you are a Muslim, you are a believer with your longing and desire for the temporary gain of worldly life. Do not say that you are not, but most of the spoils are with Allah…” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Tafsir: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. In this regard, Usama b. A hadith was also narrated from Zayd.
3305-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiyallahu anh), Amr b. Umm Maktum came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said, O Messenger of Allah! I am a blind person, what do you order me to do? said. Allah revealed the section "Without an excuse" and the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to the scribes of revelation: "Bring the scapula or plate, pen and record that you have written." he commanded. (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Imara: 17) the hadith is hasan sahih. Amr b. As Umm Maktum said, Abdullah b. Also called Umm Maktum. This person was Abdullah b. It is Zaide. Umm Maktum is her mother.
3306-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), when the 95th verse of Nisa Surah was revealed, those who participated in the Battle of Badr and the rest of the Battle of Badr - because this verse was revealed for the Battle of Badr - when the verse was revealed, Abdullah b. Jahsh and Ibn Umm Maktum said: “O Messenger of Allah! We are two but nobody, is it allowed to us?” Thereupon, the 95th verse of Surah Nisa was revealed. “Allah has given the mujahids a degree of superiority over those who sit with excuses. As for those who sit without an excuse; Allah has exalted the mujahideen above those who sit and stay in degrees.” (Bukhari, Maghazi: 27) This hadith, as it is, is hasan garib as the narration of Ibn Abbas. Miksem's Abdullah b. As it is said that he was the freedman of Haris, Abdullah b. It is also said that he was the freedman of Abbas. His imprint is Abu'l Qasim.
3307-) According to the narration from Ibn Shihab (radiyallahu anh), he said: Sahl b. Sa'd told me and said: Marwan b. I saw al-Hakim sitting in the mosque and I came and sat next to him, and he was Zayd b. He told us what Thabit had told him: The 95th verse of Nisa was revealed without the "Without an excuse" part, and the Messenger of Allah had me write this verse at that moment, when Ibn Umm Maktum appeared and O Messenger of Allah, if I had the opportunity to participate in jihad, I would definitely have made jihad. said. He was a blind man. Thereupon, Allah sent down the additional part of the revelation: "Without an excuse" to the Prophet. The knee of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was above my knee, it became heavy enough to crush my knee, then this weight was removed and thus the section "Without an excuse" was also lowered. (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Imara: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Many people from Zuhrî, Sahl b. They narrated a similar hadith from Sa'd to us. Ma'mer, on the other hand, derived this hadith from Zuhri, Kabîsa b. From Zûeyb, Zayd b. It is narrated from Thabit, and in this narration, there is a narration from a person who is one of the companions of the Prophet. Sahl b. Sa'd el Ensari, Mervan b. He narrates a hadith from the referee. Marwan did not hear any hadith from the prophet. He is one of the people of the second century called Tabiin.
3308-) Ya'la b. According to the narration from Umayya (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar b. I said to Khattab: In the 101st verse of Surah Nisa, Allah commands that if you are in fear, shorten your prayers. All people are safe today. What will happen? He said: I was also surprised by this situation that surprised you, and I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and he said: "It is a donation from Allah to you as charity, accept his donation." (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 27; Nesâî, Taksir-üs Salat: 17) the hadith is hasan authentic.
3309-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Shaqiq (radiyallahu anh), Abu Huraira told us: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had descended with his soldiers to a place between Dacnan and Usfan, the polytheists said among themselves: more precious than their fathers and sons. This is the afternoon prayer. At this time of prayer, make your final decision and pounce on them. However, Gabriel came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and ordered him to divide the army into two parts. One group would pray while the others would continue the war. They will act with caution and control, and when one rak'ah is performed, the other group will go to war and pray one rak'ah. Thus, the prayers of the soldiers will be one rak'ah, and the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), who is in the position of an imam, will be two rak'ahs. (This hadith is the explanation of the 102nd verse of Nisa.) (Bukhari, Salat-ul Havf: 27) This hadith, as it is, is Abdullah b. It is hasan garib as Shakik narrated from Abu Huraira. Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Zayd b. Sabit, Ibn Abbas, Jabir, Abu Ayyas ez Zuraki, Ibn Omar, Huzeyfe, Abu Bekre, Sahl b. A hadith was also narrated from Abi Hasma. The name of Abu Ayyas ez Zuraki was Zeyd b. It is Sâmit.
3310-) Qatada b. According to the narration from Numan (radiyallahu anh), he said: We had a family from the Ansar community. As the sons of Ubeyrik, they were called Bishr, Beşir and Mübeşşir. Bashir was a hypocrite. He sang poems and vilified the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). When the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) listened to that poem. By Allah, they were saying that no one else could sing this poem but a microbe, and they would say that if only he said it, this man from the sons of Ubayrik said it. The tribe was in need and poverty both in the period of ignorance and in the Islamic period. At that time, people's food in Medina consisted of dates and barley. When the man had money, when the caravan loaded with fine flour came in Damascus, he would buy flour from there and only eat it, and the food of the children was barley and dates. Then a caravan came from Damascus, my uncle Rifaa b. Zayd bought some good flour and put it in his warehouse, which also contained weapons, armor and swords. This warehouse under the house was breached and food and weapons were taken from here. In the morning, my uncle Rifaa came to me and my nephew came to us at night, our warehouse was opened, our flour and weapons were taken. While the sons of Übeyrik were investigating in their own neighborhoods: By Allah, the man you are looking for is Lebîd b. They said that we are of the opinion that it is Sahl. However, he was a pious and righteous person. When he heard what was said about Labîd, he drew his sword and said, "Did I steal it?" By Allah, you will either expose this theft or this sword will interfere with you. They said, step aside, you are not the perpetrator of this. In the neighborhood, we have deepened the investigation so much that we do not doubt that one of the sons of Ubayrik did it. My uncle said: O my brother's son, go to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and explain the situation! Qatada said: I came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: A family from us who upset their neighbors, my uncle, Rifaa b. They broke through Zayd's warehouse and stole his weapons and food. Let them give us our weapons, we don't want food. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): He said, “I will give the necessary order in this regard. When the sons of Ubayrik heard our appeal to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), one of them was named Usayr b. They came to a man called Urwa and brought the matter up to him. Some people from the neighborhood were present at this meeting. They came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: Qatada b. Numan and his uncle accuse anyone of us who is a pious and good Muslim of stealing without evidence and proof. Qatada says: I came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and talked to me; He said, 'You are accusing a Muslim family of stealing without evidence and proof. I turned around and said, "I wish I had lost most of my property and I had not talked about this issue with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). My uncle, Rifaa, came to me and said, O my brother's child, what have you done? I told him what the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told me. “God seek help,” he said. Not long after, the verse of the Qur'an was revealed on this subject: “We have sent down this book as a book containing the truth so that you can judge between people as Allah has shown you. Don't be a defender of traitors." “There is no good in most of the secret gatherings, except for the meetings of those who aim to cooperate, benevolent and rehabilitate people. And we will give a great reward to the person who does all these good deeds to earn Allah's approval, when the time comes. (Surah Nisa 105 - 114) When these verses of the Qur'an were revealed, the weapon was brought to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). He is also the weapon; Returned to Rifaa. Qatada said: When I brought the gun to my uncle, he was an old man whose eyesight was weakened during the ignorance period and his age was quite advanced, and I considered his Islam a bit suspicious. When I came to him with a gun; “O son of my brother, I donated that weapon in the way of Allah.” said. Then I realized that his Islam was solid. When the verses of the Qur'an were revealed on this subject, Bashir joined the polytheists and went to Sümeyye, one of the sons of Sulaka bint Sa'd, and sought refuge there. Thereupon (the verses of Nisa 115 - 116 were revealed.) “Whoever cuts his ties with the prophet after the right path has become clear to him and deviates from the path of the believers, We will leave him on the path he prefers and put him in Hell. What a wicked place it is.” “Allah never forgives anyone other than Himself to be attributed as divinity, but He forgives the sins of those who ask for forgiveness, other than shirk. For those who ascribe divinity to others besides Allah are those who have gone astray.” After she took shelter in the sons of Sülaka, the Islamic poet Hassan insulted that woman with a few couplets. Thereupon, the woman took her belongings, placed them on her head, threw her things in the place called Ebtah and said: “You did not bring me anything! You just gifted me Hassan's poem.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Muhammed b. We do not know that he narrated this hadith as musnad from Salama al-Harrani or anyone else. b. Bukayr and many narrators reported this hadith as Muhammad b. İshâk, Asım b. Umar b. They narrated from Qatada as mursal and did not say "From his father and grandfather" in his deed. He is a maternal brother of Abu Said al-Khudri. The name of Abu Said al-Khudri was Sa'd b. Malik b. It is Sinan.
3311-) Ali b. According to the narration from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: One of the most beloved verses from the Qur'an to me is this: (Surat an-Nisa: 116) “Allah never forgives anyone other than himself to be attributed divinity, but whoever asks for forgiveness is shirk. forgives his sins. For those who ascribe divinity to others besides Allah are those who have gone astray.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Abu Fahite's name is Said b. It is İlâka, Suwayr's identity card is Abu Jahm. This man is a native of Kufa, and he listened to hadiths from Ibn Omar and Ibn Zubayr. Ibn Mahdi touches him with some sarcasm.
3312-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the 123rd verse of the chapter of Nisa was revealed, this judgment was a bit heavy for the Muslims, and they were close to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Go in the middle path and seek the truth. In every trouble that befalls a believer, there is a condition of expiation for his sins, even when a thorn prickles him and in every difficulty he suffers…” (Bukhari, Merda: 27; Muslim,i Birr and Sıla: 17) Muhayyis's name is Ömer b. Abdurrahman b. Muhaysin. This hadith is hasan garib.
3313-) Abdullah b. Umar quoted Abu Bakr as Siddiq (radiyallahu anhuma) as follows: I was with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and the following verse was revealed: (Nisa 123rd verse) “Salvation in the other world; It will not be realized by your delusions that are not based on revelation, nor by the delusions of previous societies who say that we have been given the book. Whoever does evil will be punished with it, and he will not find for himself any friend or helper besides Allah.” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked, "Shall I recite a verse that was revealed to me to you?" he commanded. And I said, “Yes, read! I said, "O Messenger of Allah." The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) recited that verse to me, while I unknowingly stretched due to a pain in my back. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "What's wrong with you! “O Abu Bakr!” he asked. I said, "May my mother and father be sacrificed for your sake, O Messenger of Allah". Which of us has not done evil, we will be punished for what we did! Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "As for you and all believers, you will pay for your evil deeds in this world and you will meet Allah without sin. As for the other disbelievers, their evil will accumulate for them and as a result, they will be punished for it on the Day of Judgment.” (Musnad: 23) This hadith is garib and there is a rumor in its document. Musa b. It is said that Ubayda was weak in hadith. It was Yahya b. Said and Ahmed b. They find Hanbel weak. Ibn Sebba's freedman, on the other hand, is unknown. This hadith was also narrated from Abu Bakr in another way, and the proof of this narration is not very solid. A hadith was also narrated from Aisha on the subject.
3314-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Sawda (radiyallahu anha) feared that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) would divorce him, so he said, "Don't divorce me, keep me under the marriage, and dedicate my day to Aisha." . The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did this. Thereupon, verse 128 of the chapter of Nisa was revealed: “If a woman fears that her husband will treat her badly or leave her, the two parties can settle their problems by mutual agreement. Because mutual agreement is the best way and selfishness is always present in the human spirit. But if you do good and find your way through the book of Allah, know that Allah is aware of all that you do.” If the husband and wife agree on any issue, it is permissible.” This word may be the word of Ibn Abbas. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3315-) According to what is reported from Barâ (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The last thing revealed about the chapter of Nisa; The last verse of the chapter Nisa is verse 176: “They ask you for an answer. Say: Allah explains to you the judgment regarding the inheritance of a fatherless and childless person: If a deceased person has no children and has a sister, half of the property he left belongs to that sister. But if the deceased sister has no children, she, that is, her brother, will inherit her. If he has two sisters, they have two-thirds of what he left behind. But if the heirs are many brothers or sisters, then the woman has two shares for the man. Allah makes clear to you His judgment on all matters so that you do not go astray. God is all-knowing.” (Bukhari, Maghazi: 27; Muslim, Feraiz: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Sefer's name is Said b. It is also said that he is Ahmed es Sevrî and that he is Yuhummedoğlu.
3316-) According to the narration from Bara (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said, “O Messenger of Allah!” said. They ask you for an answer about the inheritance of a fatherless and childless person…” Thereupon, the 176th verse of the chapter of Nisa, which was revealed to you in the summer, is sufficient for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (The 12th verse of the Nisa chapter, which talks about the same issues and was sent down on the winter day, is called the winter verse.) (Abu Dawud, Feraiz: 27)
3317-) Tarik b. According to the narration from Shihab (radiyallahu anh), one of the Jews said: Umar b. He said to Khattab: O Commander of the Believers! If the verse, "I have perfected your religion for you today, I have perfected my favor upon you, and I have given you Islam as a religion and am pleased with it...", the 3rd verse of the chapter of Maide, we would have declared that day as Eid. Thereupon, Umar said: I know very well on what day this verse was revealed; This verse was revealed on the day of Arafa, which coincides with Friday. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Tafsir: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3318-) Ammar b. According to the narration from Ebî Ammar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Ibn Abbas read the third verse of the chapter of Maida, there was a Jew next to him, and he said that if this verse had been revealed to us, we would have declared that day as a feast. Ibn Abbas replied: This verse came in Arafat on Friday, a day when two festivals come together. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib authentic as the hadith of Ibn Abbas.
3319-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Giving it constantly, day and night, does not diminish it. Tell me, what has he given since he created the heavens? The truth is that his possessions have not diminished. His Throne is on the water. He also has scales in his other hand. He is the one who lowers and raises.” (This verse was descended on the 64th verse of Maida.) (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Zakat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. It is the interpretation of the 64th verse of the hadith surah Maide. Scholars say the following about this hadith: We believe in such hadiths as they come to us, without interpreting them, without delusions. Along with many imams, Sevrî, Malik b. This is what Anas, Ibn Uyeyna, and Ibn'ul Mubarak said. That is, such hadiths are transmitted, they are believed, and they are not asked how or why.
3320-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was protected by guards in the early days. When the verse “…Allah will protect you from the evil of those who do not believe…” (Maide 67.) was revealed, he removed his head from where it was and said, “O people, disperse, Allah has taken me under your protection.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3321-) Nasr b. Ali, Muslim b. They narrated a similar hadith through Ibrahim in the same deed. This hadith is garib. Some derive this hadith from Jureyri and Abdullah b. They narrated from Shaqik: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was protected by guards." They did not mention Aisha in the hadith.
3322-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When the sons of Israel went into rebellion and sins, they warned them, but they did not give up. Then their scholars sat with them in their assemblies and ate and drank with them. Allah made their hearts look like each other, and they were cursed with the tongue of David and Jesus, according to the 78th verse of the chapter of Maide." Ibn Mas'ud continued as follows: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) straightened up while he was leaning and said; “No, no, I swear to Allah, in whose hand is all power, that you cannot be saved unless you prevent the sinners among you as necessary.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Melâhım: 27; İbn Mâce, Fitan: 17) b. Abdurrahman, quoting from Yazid, said: He would not say "From Mas'ud". This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith is from Muhammad b. Muslim b. Ebî'l Vaddah, Ali b. It has been reported from Bezîme, Abu Ubayda and Abdullah in a similar way, and some people narrate the hadith as mursal, saying it is from Abu Ubayda.
3323-) According to the narration from Abu Ubayda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When there was a defect in religious matters among the sons of Israel, one of them would see that his brother had fallen into sin and would warn him of his sin. But the next day, although he continued to do that job, the person who warned him would sit, drink and be with him. Thus, Allah made their hearts look like each other, and verse 78 of the chapter of Maide was revealed: "Some of these Israelites, who were conditioned to cover up the truths from Allah, have already been cursed by the tongue of David and Isa, son of Mary. This is because they rebelled and transgressed the limits of right and justice.” “They did not try to dissuade each other from their wrongdoings. What they did was really bad.” “And now you can see that many of them are friends with those who cover up the truth from God. How bad is what their selves have prepared for them in advance that Allah has angered them and they will abide in the punishment forever.” “If they truly believed in Allah and the Messenger sent to them and everything that was revealed to him, they would not have taken as friends those who cover up the truths from Allah. But most of them are those who have transcended divine ways and boundaries.” Abu Ubayda said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) straightened up while he was leaning and said: “No! No! There is no salvation for you unless you let the oppressor get away with his oppression.” (Abu Dawud, Melahim: 27; Ibn Majah, Fitan: 17)
3324-) Bundar, through Abu Dâvûd et Tayalisi, said -Dawud made me write this hadith- Muhammad b. Muslim b. From Ebi'l Vaddah, Ali b. From Bezîme, Abu Ubeyde and Abdullah b. They narrated a similar one from Mas'ud.
3325-) According to what was reported from Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "O Allah, explain to us the ruling of alcohol in a way that will benefit us." Thereupon, verse 219 of Baccarat was revealed: "They ask you about intoxicants and games of chance. . Say: In both of them there is some great sin, and some benefit, such as making money for the seller. But the harm they cause is greater than the benefit they bring. And they ask you what they will spend in the way of Allah. Say: “Everything that remains of your need.” Thus Allah makes clear to you His verses so that you may reflect.” Then Umar was called and this verse was read to him. But Umar was not satisfied again and prayed, "O Allah, explain the ruling of the drink in a way that will benefit us." This time, the 43rd verse of the chapter of Nisa was revealed: “O you who believe! Do not try to pray while intoxicated, wait until you know what you are saying, and do not pray while you are in a state that requires ablution. However, if you are a passenger and do not have the opportunity to wash, that is different. Because if you are sick or traveling, or if you have just broken your wudu or if you have approached one of your wives and you cannot find any water, then make tayammum with clean soil and rub it lightly on your hands and face. Know that Allah is the one who cleanses sins and forgives much.” Again, Umar was called and this verse was read to him, and Omar prayed in the same way. Thereupon, the 90th verse of the chapter of Maide was revealed: “O you who believe! Everything that intoxicates, games of chance, all pagan practices and shooting arrows of luck, playing and acting on all kinds of guessing games are nothing but the work of the devil and disgusting evils. So avoid them so that you may attain happiness.” Again, Umar was called and this verse was read to him. Upon this, Omar said: "We gave up, we gave up". (Nesai, Eşribe: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Eşribe: 17) This hadith was narrated from Israel as a mursal.
3326-) Muhammed b. From Israel, from Abu Ishaq, from Abu Meysere, Amr b. From Şurahbil, Ömer b. It is narrated that Khattab prayed as follows. They quoted a similar hadith: "O Allah, explain a decree that will benefit us regarding alcohol...". This hadith is from Muhammad b. It is more authentic than the hadith of Yusuf.
3327-) According to the narration from Bara (radiy-Allâhu anh), some of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) died before wine was made haram. When alcohol is forbidden, some people ask: "What will happen to people who die while drinking wine?" they asked. Thereupon, verse 93 of Maidah was revealed: “There is no sin in what they ate before it became unlawful, as long as those who believe and do righteous deeds find their way through the Book of Allah and His Messenger, and truly believe and do righteous deeds. As long as they try to organize their lives according to the book of Allah, they continue to believe, they pay more attention to the arrangement of their lives through the book of Allah, and they act willingly and determinedly in doing good. For Allah loves those who do good.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic. Shu'ba reported this hadith from Abu Ishaq, from Bara. Likewise, Bundar has a narration.
3328-) According to the narration from Abu Ishaq (radiy-Allâhu anh), Barâ said: Some of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) died while they were drinking wine. When the verse about the prohibition of wine is revealed, what will be the situation of our brothers who died while some of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) were drinking wine? They said, "There is no sin in what they ate before it became haram, as long as those who believe and do righteous deeds find their way with Allah's Book and His Messenger, and truly believe and do righteous deeds. As long as they try to organize their lives according to the book of Allah, they continue to believe, they pay more attention to the arrangement of their lives through the book of Allah, and they act willingly and determinedly in doing good. For Allah loves those who do good.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3329-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the decision to render wine unlawful was abolished, they asked the situation about those who died while they were drinking wine, and the 93rd verse of the chapter of Maide was revealed: "Those who believe and do righteous deeds, as long as they find their way with Allah's book and messenger and truly believe and do righteous deeds. There is no sin in what they ate before it became haram. As long as they try to organize their lives according to the book of Allah, they continue to believe, they pay more attention to the arrangement of their lives through the book of Allah, and they act willingly and determinedly in doing good. For Allah loves those who do good.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3330-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the verse 93 of Surat al-Maida was revealed, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me, "You are one of them." (Muslim, Fedail-us Companions: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3331-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), a man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said; “O Messenger of Allah! When I eat meat, my lustful feelings rise, so I made it forbidden for myself to eat meat.” Thereupon, the 87th verse of the chapter of Maide was revealed: “O you who believe, take advantage of the beautiful blessings of the world that Allah has made lawful for you, and do not make them unlawful because you can be more pious to yourselves. Do not go to extremes in taking advantage of Allah's blessings. For Allah does not love those who go to extremes and exceed the limits.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is hasan garib. this hadith by Osman b. They narrated from Sa'd as mursal. In this narration, it is called "from Ibn Abbas". Likewise, Khalid al Hazza narrated this hadith from Ikrima as a mursal.
3332-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The 97th verse of Âl-i Imran is: “O Ka'ba, which is full of clear signs, and Abraham's station is there. Whoever enters there will find peace. Therefore, making a pilgrimage to the Ka'ba is a duty that all people who can afford it have to fulfill. Whoever denies this duty and does not fulfill it, let him know that Allah is independent of the worlds and is self-sufficient in every way.” Companions every year when the verse is revealed? they asked. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not answer and remained silent. Then O Messenger of Allah! Every year they asked again, "no", he said yes, if I had said yes, you would have to perform pilgrimage every year. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 101st verse of the chapter of Maide: “O you who believe! Don't ask about things that will upset you when it's revealed. If you had asked them while the Qur'an was being revealed, it would have been explained to you. However, Allah has forgiven you for asking questions without knowing this rule. For, Allah is very forgiving and does not rush into neglect, even if he delays the punishment.” (Ibn Majah, Menasik: 27) The hadith is hasan garib as Ali's narration. A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira and Ibn Abbas.
3333-) Musa b. According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Enes b. I heard Malik saying: A man asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) O Messenger of Allah, who is my father? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said, "Your father is so-and-so". Thereupon, the 101st verse of the chapter of Maide was revealed: “O you who believe! Don't ask about things that will upset you when it's revealed. If you had asked them while the Qur'an was being revealed, it would have been explained to you. However, Allah has forgiven you for asking questions without knowing this rule. For, Allah is very forgiving and does not rush into neglect, even if he delays the punishment.” (Bukhari, İtisam: 27; Muslim, İmara: 17) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
3334-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr es Siddiq (radiyallahu anh), he said: “O Muslims! You are reading the 105th verse of the chapter of Maide; “O you who believe! You are only responsible for yourself. If you are on the right path, those who go astray cannot harm you at all. All of you will return to Allah. and then Allah will inform you of everything you have done in life.” However, I heard the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: "When people see an oppressor and do not let him get away with his oppression, it is inevitable that Allah will inflict a general punishment on them." (Ebû Dâvûd, Melâhım: 27; İbn Mâce, Fitan: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Many people refer to this hadith as Ismail b. They narrated it from Abu Khalid as merfu as here. Others, on the other hand, narrate this hadith as the word of Abu Bakr, without reference to Kays or Abu Bakr.
3335-) According to the narration from Abu Umayya ash Sha'bani (radiyallahu anh), he said: I came to Abu Sa'lebe al-Husheni and asked him what you said about this verse. What verse did he say to Abu Sa'labe? I said that it is the 105th verse of the chapter of Maide; “O you who believe! You are only responsible for yourself. If you are on the right path, those who go astray cannot harm you at all. All of you will return to Allah. and then Allah will inform you of everything you have done in life.” Then he said: Beware, you have asked someone who knows this verse. In the same way, I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about this verse and he said: "Order each other good and forbid evil, but when you see stinginess succumb to stinginess, when you see people following their desires and desires, when the world is preferred to religion and everyone likes their own opinion, only his own opinion is given." take care of yourself and let go of the common people, there will be days after which patience to follow the orders of religion will be as difficult as holding a piece of fire. Those who tried to live as Muslims in those days will receive as much reward as the people who want the deeds of fifty of you today.” b. Mubarak said: Someone other than Utba added the following to me in this hadith: O Messenger of Allah! Fifty of us? Or is it the reward of fifty of them? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "No, the reward of fifty of you." (Nesai, Sayd: 27; Ibn Mâce, Fitan: 17) This hadith is hasan garib.
3336-) According to the narration from Tamim ed Dari (radiyallahu anh), the 106th verse of the chapter of Maide; “O you who believe! Have two honest witnesses among yourselves for the deeds to be done when death is about to approach you and make a will. Or if signs of death appear while you are traveling far from your home and wandering around the earth, after the prayer, remove two people from the community you are visiting; and if you have any doubts, make each of you swear to God: “We will not sell this word for any price, even if it is for the sake of a close relative, and we will not hide anything that we witness in the presence of God, otherwise we will be among the sinners.” Benden and Adiy b. He said, "Everyone except Bedda has escaped from the dominion of this verse." Tamim and Adiyy were Christians before Islam and they would go to Damascus for trade. Once again, they came to Damascus for trade. On behalf of Büdeyl b. A freed slave of the Hashim sons, called Ebî Meryem, joined them with his trade goods, and he had a silver vessel with him and wanted to sell it to the king. A large part of his trade was this silver vessel. There he fell ill and made a will to those two people, asking them to hand over the items he had left to his family. He says: When Budeyl died, he bought that silver cup and sold it for a thousand dirhams, and I and Adiyy b. We shared the bed. When we came to Büdeyl's family, we gave their belongings to them. They searched the silver bowl and asked us. We said that he just left them and did not give anything else. He said: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came to Medina and I accepted Islam, I became suspicious of this incident. I came to Büdeyl's family and explained the situation to them, I gave them my share of five hundred dirhams and informed them that my friend had as much money. Adiy b. They took Bedda to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked for evidence from them, but they could not find any evidence. He ordered them to take an oath on something they considered sacred to their own religion. Adiy took an oath. Thereupon, the verses 105 - 108 of the chapter of Maide were revealed: “O you who believe! You are only responsible for yourself. If you are on the right path, those who go astray cannot harm you at all. All of you will return to Allah. and then Allah will inform you of everything you have done in life.” “This is the most appropriate thing for them to act as their witness or to fear that their oaths will be revealed and their oaths rejected after their oaths. So arrange your life with Allah and His book and listen to Him. For, Allah does not show the right way by guiding the people who have gone astray.” Amr b. As and someone else took an oath and thus Adiy b. Five hundred dirhams were taken from Bedda. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. The deed is not authentic. b. Abu'n Nadr, from whom Ishaq narrated this hadith, is in my opinion Muhammad b. He is Sâib el Kelbî. He is commemorated with the title of Abu'n Nadr. Hadith scholars abandoned this man. It has its own interpretation. Muhammed b. I heard Ismail say: Muhammad b. Saib al-Kalbi; Abu'n Nadr is known by his tagline. We do not know that Salim narrated hadiths from Abu'n Nadr al-Madani and from Abu Salih, the freedman of Umm Hani. This hadith was narrated in a short way other than Ibn Abbas.
3337-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: A man from the sons of Sehm, Tamim ed Dari and Adiyy b. He went on a business trip with Bedda. He died in a non-Muslim place from Sehm. When Temîm and Adiyy brought his remaining belongings to his family, they looked for a silver bowl with gold inlay. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) offered them an oath. Then they found the vessel in Mecca. It was said that they bought that pot from Temim and Adiyy. Two members of Sehmi's family stood up and took an oath and claimed that our testimony is more right than the testimony of those two men, claiming that the silver bowl belonged to the deceased and was stolen and sold. Thereupon, the 106th verse of the chapter of Maide was revealed; “O you who believe! Have two honest witnesses among yourselves for the deeds to be done when death is about to approach you and make a will. Or if signs of death appear while you are traveling far from your home and wandering around the earth, after the prayer, remove two people from the community you are visiting; and if you have any doubts, make each of you swear to God: “We will not sell this word for any price, even if it is for the sake of a close relative, and we will not hide anything that we witness in the presence of God, otherwise we will be among the sinners.” (Bukhari, Vesâyâ: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Akdıye: 17) The hadith is hasan garib as the narration of Ibn Abi Zaide.
3338-) Ammar b. According to a narration from Yasir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The table that descended from the sky to Jesus; It was sent down as meat and bread, and they were commanded not to commit treason against themselves and not to hide these foods for tomorrow. But they betrayed; They bought and saved something for tomorrow. In the end, they were disguised as monkeys and pigs.” (Tirmidhi has narrated this hadith.) Abu Asim and many others reported this hadith as Said b. From Abu Aruba, from Kata'de, from Hılas, from Ammar b. They narrated it from Yâsir as mawkuf. Only Hasan b. We know Kazaa.
3339-) Humayd b. Mes'ade, Sûfyan b. Through Habib Said b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abu Arube to us, without reference to it. This narration is Hasan b. It is stronger than Kazaa's narration. We do not know the origin of the hadith as merfu.
3340-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), Allah said to Jesus, verse 116 of the chapter of Maide: “And the day will come when God will say, “O Jesus, son of Mary!” will say; “Are you the one who tells people to leave Allah and recognize me and my mother as two gods?” Jesus answered: “Above you from partners and shortcomings. It doesn't suit me to say what is not right for me. If I had said that, you would surely have known. You know everything inside of me. However, I do not know what is in your person. There is no doubt that you know all the facts that cannot be known by the mind, only you.” He suggested and taught him how to answer his question. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3341-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The last surah descended is Surah Maida." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. It is reported that Ibn Abbas said: “The last surah descended; It is the surah "Nasr".
3342-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), Abu Jahl said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “We do not deny you, we deny the message you brought,” and Allah sent down the 33rd verse of Surah An’am; “We know very well that what these people are saying really upsets you. But remember, you are not the one they denied. What those who live outside of this reason of existence deny are actually the messages of Allah.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3343-) Ishaq b. Mansur, Abdurrahman b. He narrated a similar hadith from Sufyan, Abu Ishaq, and Naciye, through the Mahdi: "Abu Jahl said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)". But he did not say "from Ali" in his deed. The story is more solid.
3344-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the first half of the 65th verse of Surah An'am was revealed, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I seek refuge in You." Then when the second half descends; “These two considerations are lighter than before.” he commanded. “Say: “He alone has the power to surround you with torment from above and from under your feet; And of course, He is the One Who has the power to set you against each other in groups and to make each other hurt. See how we explain all aspects of the messages so they can understand better.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27) Hasen is authentic.
3345-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Ebî Vakkâs (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the 65th verse of Surah An'am was revealed; Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); “This event that has taken place will definitely happen.” they ordered. (Musnad: 1387) This hadith is hasan garib.
3346-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the 82nd verse of An'am was revealed; “Those who believe and do not tarnish their faith by acting contrary to their reason for being, these are the ones who will be safe and have reached the right path.” This decision was too heavy for them and they said, "O Messenger of Allah! Which of us hasn't hurt himself? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: “No, that is not what you understand; what is meant here is oppression, shirk. Didn't you hear what Lokman said to his son?" Surah Lokman: 13th verse: "Lokman gave advice to his son and said: "O my dear son! Do not attribute divinity to other powers besides Allah! Know that such false associations are indeed a great injustice against Allah.” (Bukhari, Faith: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17)
3347-) According to the narration from Masruk (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was sitting next to Aisha (radiyallahu anha). Addressing me with my kunya, he said, "O Abu 'Aisha," and continued as follows: "There are three things, and anyone who says one of them will be slandering Allah the most. Whoever says that Muhammad has seen his Lord has made the greatest slander against Allah. Because Allah is in En'am 103; “No human view or imagination can understand Him, whereas He encompasses every human view and imagination. For he is the only One who cannot fully penetrate His wisdom and who is aware of everything.” He says, and again in the 51st verse of the Shura period: “God does not talk to a person. However, he speaks through revelation, or behind a curtain, or sends a messenger and reveals what he wishes with his permission. Undoubtedly, He is the exalted one and does everything he does appropriately.” commands. I was in a reclining position, I came to a sitting position and O mother of the believers, will you allow me to speak? I said don't rush things. Allah says in the 13th verse of Surah Najm; “She had seen him one more time.” Didn't he also say in the 23rd verse of Takvir, "He saw him in a clear horizon"? Aisha said: By Allah, I was the first to ask the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about this issue, and he said: "He is the Jibril that is seen, I saw that Gabriel in the way he was created twice. I saw him descending from the sky and the greatness of his creation covering the space between heaven and earth.” Whoever; If he claims that Muhammad was hiding something from what was revealed by Allah, he would be committing a great slander against Allah. Because; Allah says in verse 67 of Surah Maida: “O Prophet! Inform people fully what has been revealed to you from your Lord. Unless you do it completely, you have never spread the message of your Lord. Allah will protect you from the evil of people who do not believe. Allah never guides groups of people who cover up the truths that come from Him to the right path.” he commands. Whoever is your prophet; If he claims to know the events that will happen tomorrow, he will again be slandering Allah. For, Allah says in verse 65 of Surat an-Naml: “Say: “No one in the heavens and on the earth knows the invisible, the hidden knowledge of Allah except Allah. and they do not know when they will be resurrected.” He commands it this way. (Bukhari, Faith: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan. Mesrûk b. Ecda is known as Abu Aisha. Mesrûk b. Abdurrahman. At the same time, its name is called Divan.
3348-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), some of the people came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! they said. We will eat the meat of the animals we slaughtered ourselves, but will we not eat the animal killed by Allah? Thereupon, Allah revealed the verses 118 - 121 of Surah An'am: “Then, do not listen to the words of those perverts, but eat of the things on which Allah's name is mentioned, if you truly believe in His message”. don't eat, for that is really going astray. Because the devils whisper to their friends to fight you. If you obey them, know that you will be among those who ascribe divinity to beings other than Allah.” (Abu Dawud, Dahaya: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was also narrated from Ibn Abbas in another way, and some of them related this hadith from Ata' b. From Sâib Said b. They narrated from Jubayr as mursal.
3349-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: Whoever likes to look at the page on which the seal of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) is affixed, should read the 151-153 verses of Surah An'am: "Say: "Come, Allah Let me tell you what God really forbids: never attribute divinity to anything other than Him; do good to your parents and do not disrespect them and do not kill your children for fear of poverty; because we are the ones who will provide sustenance for you and for them. Do not commit any shameful act, openly or covertly, and do not unjustly take human life, which God holds sacred, except in the pursuit of justice. Allah commands you to use your intellect.” “Indeed, this is my straight path. So follow him and do not follow other paths, they will deviate you from His path. Allah has commanded you all this so that you may find your way through Allah's book.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3350-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), we are told that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said about “the coming of some verses of your Lord…” in the 158th verse of Surah An'am: “That verse is the sun rising from the west. ” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Some of them have narrated this hadith without merfu.
3351-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a person does not believe before three things are revealed, his faith will not benefit him anymore.” (Surah Enam, verse 158) “The Dajjal, Dabbat-ul-arr, and the rising of the sun from the west.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Hazım al-Eşcaî is from Kufa. His name is Selman and he is the freed slave of Azzetel Eşcaî.
3352-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah says: His word is true. If my servant wishes to do a good deed, write him a reward, if he does that good, write it tenfold. If he does evil, do not write it down; if he does evil, write him a sin. If he abandons it or does not do it, write him a reward.” After saying this, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) recited the 160th verse of Surah An'am: "Whoever enters the presence of Allah with a good deed and behavior will gain tenfold of what he has done. But whoever comes before his Lord with a bad deed will be punished with the same. and no one will be treated unjustly.” (Bukhari, Faith: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan.
3353-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the verse from verse 143 of Surah Araf: “When his Lord manifested to the mountain with his light, he shattered it…” He wanted to tell the horror of the incident by saying this much. Solomon, touching his thumb to his other fingers, said, "The mountain has sunk into the ground," and "Moses fainted and fell." (Musnad: 11812) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Only Hammad b. We know from the narration of Salama.
3354-) Abdulvehhab el Verrak, Muâz b. Through Muâz, Hammad b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Salama, Sabit and Enes. the narration is hasan.
3355-) Muslim b. According to the narration from Yesar al-Cuheni (radiyallahu anh), Umar b. Khattab was asked about the interpretation of the 172nd verse of Araf, and he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) being asked about this verse. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "After Allah created Adam, he patted his back with his right hand and they will cultivate a descendant from him. Then he patted Adam on the back again and produced a descendant from him, and I created them for Paradise. They will do the deeds of the people of Paradise. Then he patted Adam's back again, and I took another offspring from him, and I created them for Hell, and they will do the deeds of the people of Hell." Thereupon, the person who asked the interpretation of that verse: “O Messenger of Allah! So what's the use of working and trying?" The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When Allah creates a servant for Paradise, he uses it for the deeds of the inhabitants of Paradise, and that person dies in accordance with the deeds of the inhabitants of Paradise and enters Paradise. When a servant is created for Hell, he uses it on the deeds of the people of Hell, eventually he dies as one of the deeds of the people of Hell, and Allah puts him in Hell.” (Abu Dawud, Sunnah: 27) This hadith is hasan. Muslim b. Yesar did not hear any hadith from Omar. Some of them with this year Muslim b. They mentioned an unknown narrator between Yasar and Omar.
3356-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When Allah created Adam, Allah patted him on the back and every living thing that he would create until the Day of Judgment was cast aside in small pieces from him. He created a gleam between the two eyes of man and then presented them to Adam.” Then Adam said: “O my Lord! Who are they?" Allah said: These are from your offspring. He saw a man among them, and he liked the glimmer of light between his eyes and asked, "O Lord, who is this?" said. Allah: "This is one of the last nations from your offspring, whose name is David." Adam said: "My Lord, how long is his life?" God said "Sixty years". Adam said: "Add forty years from my life to it." When his life was over, the angel of death came to him. Adam: “Don't I have forty years of life yet?” said. Angel of death: "Didn't you give these forty years to your son David?" he replied. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) continued: “Adam denied this, and he also denies his offspring. He was made to forget Adam, so he also forgets his offspring. Adam was wrong and his descendants are also wrong.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways.
3357-) According to the narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When Eve became pregnant, the devil wandered around her – Eve’s children were not living – Satan said: Name the child to be born Abdulharis. Eve also named her child Abdulharis, and thus her children lived. This is the revelation and delusion of the devil.” (This is the interpretation of the 189-190 verses of the chapter of Araf) (Musnad: 19258) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Umar b. We know it from Ibrahim's narration from Qatada. Some of them narrated this hadith without merfu from Abdussamet. Umar b. Ibrahim is an old man from Basra.
3358-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “When Adam was created,” he narrated the entire hadith.
3359-) According to the narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the battle of Badr was over, I took a sword from the booty and brought it to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and O Messenger of Allah! said; God gave my heart comfort against the polytheists - or something close to it - so give me this sword. Thereupon they said: This sword is neither yours nor mine. I said, "Perhaps it will be given to someone like me who does not show superior usefulness in warfare." After a while, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) approached me and said, "When you asked for it, it was not mine, it is now mine, and I forgive it to you." he commanded. Then the 1st verse of Surah Anfal was revealed; “O prophet! They ask you about the anfal obtained in wars. Say: All spoils belong to Allah and His Messenger. So, try to find your way through the book of Allah, reconcile with each other and keep the bonds of brotherhood alive. Obey the commandments of Allah and the prophet, if you are truly believers.” (Muslim, Jihad: 27; Abu Dawud, Jihad: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Likewise, Simak b. Harb narrated from Mus'ab. on the subject of Ubade b. A hadith has also been narrated from Samit.
3360-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) finished the Battle of Badr, he said to him: "Take Abu Sufyan's caravan and he has no protector." it was said. Although Ibn Abbas was bound among the captives: “This is not true. God promised you one of the two groups and gave you what he promised. “When God promised you that one of the two enemy groups would fall into your hands; you wished that the powerless, unarmed caravan community should fall into your hands. And Allah wanted to show that the truth is the truth with his words and to exterminate those who conceal the truth from him.” Thereupon, he said that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) told the truth. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3361-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) looked at the polytheists and their number was a thousand. Muslims were about three hundred and ten people. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) turned to the qibla, stretched out his hands, and began to pray to his Lord: “O Allah, fulfill what you promised me, O Allah! If you destroy this community of Muslims, there will be no one who worships you on earth." This prayer, which he made by opening his hands and facing the qibla, became so long that his top dress fell off his shoulder. Abu Bakr came to him, put his robe on his shoulders and said: "O Prophet of Allah, what you ask from your Lord is enough, and Allah will certainly fulfill what He promised you. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 9th verse of Surah Anfal: "When you begged your Lord for help, and He replied, "I will help you with a thousand angels descending one after another." (Muslim, Jihad: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Only Ikrima b. We know it from the narration of Ammar from Abu Zumayl. Abu Zumeyl's name is Simak el Hanafi. The incident took place on the day of Badr.
3362-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Allah has sent down two security to me for my ummah: (33rd verse of Surat al-Anfal) “O Prophet! Allah will not punish them while you are among them. And while the believers among them seek forgiveness from Allah, Allah is not tormenting them.” When I pass away to the hereafter, I will leave the second security, istigfar, to my ummah until the Day of Judgment. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) The hadith is garib. Ismail b. Muhajir is one who is considered weak in the hadith.
3363-) Ukbe b. According to the narration from Amir (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the 60th verse of Surah Anfal on the pulpit and said: "Beware! He's throwing force. He's throwing force. He's throwing force. Allah will make you conquer countries and thus save you from the hardships of war. Don't be afraid to mess with your arrows." (Muslim, Imara: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Jihâd: 17) Some people reported this hadith as Usâme b. Zayd, Salih b. They are narrating from Keysan. Abu Usama and others reported this hadith from Ukba b. They narrated from Amir. Waki's narration is more robust. Salih b. Keysan, Ukbe b. He did not reach Amir, but reached Ömer.
3364-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the battle of Badr was over and the captives were brought, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "What do you say about these captives?" -This hadith is a bit long- Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said; He said, "Each of them will either be ransomed or be beheaded." Abdullah b. Mas'ud says: O Messenger of Allah! Süheyl b. With the exception of Beyda, I heard him talk about Islam. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) remained silent, and I have never been as afraid as I was afraid of falling stones from the sky that day. Finally, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Suhayl b. Beyda is exceptional.” he commanded. Then the verse was revealed in accordance with Umar's view: Surah Anfal, verse 67: “It is not befitting for any prophet to take captives unless he breaks the back of disbelief in the world and establishes full dominance. You want the temporary gains of this world. But Allah wants you to obtain Paradise in the hereafter. Because Allah is the owner of the highest power and does everything he does properly. (Musnad: 13452) This hadith is hasan. Abu Ubayda did not hear hadith from his father.
3365-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The spoils were not lawful for any of the peoples before you. Their booty was a fire descending from the sky and burning them.” Suleiman al-A'mesh says: Today, no one other than Abu Huraira says this. When the battle of Badr was over, people had different opinions about the booty. Allah revealed the verses 68 - 69 of Surat al-Anfal: “Had it not been for such a pre-ordained principle by Allah, you would surely have suffered a great punishment because of all these captives you took. “From now on, use the spoils of war as lawful and clean, and try to find your way through the book of Allah, surely Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.” (Musnad: 7124) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as the narration of A'mash.
3366-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Osman b. What is the reason for you to combine Affan (radiyallahu anh) with the Anfal Surah, which is one of the Masani surahs, and the Barae (Tawba) surah, which has around one hundred verses, not to write basmala between the two, and to put it between seven long surahs? I said, 'What reason prompted you to do this? Uthman replied: "While the verses were being sent down to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), he used to call the scribes of revelation and say, "Put these verses in the right place of these surahs." Surah Anfal; It was one of the first surahs revealed in Medina. Barae (Tawba) is the last surah of the Qur'an to be revealed. Both of them talk about the same thing, so I thought they were a surah. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), are these two surahs separate or one? He died without announcing that he was. Therefore, I combined these two surahs together and did not put the basmala between them. I put it between seven long surahs. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. We know this hadith only by Awf's narration from Ibn Abbas through Yazidel Farisi. Yazid al-Farisi narrated a hadith other than Ibn Abbas. Yazid al-Farisi, Yazid b. It is called in Hormuz and Yazid er Rakkashi. Yazid b. Ebân er Raqqashi was one of the hadith narrators and could not reach Ibn Abbas. Only Enes b. He narrates a hadith from Malik. Both of them are from Basra, Yezîd al-Farisi is older than Yezîd er Rakkaşî in age.
3367-) Süleyman b. Amr b. According to what is reported from Ahvas (radiyallahu anh), he said: My father, Amr b. Ahvas told me. He was on the farewell pilgrimage with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) praised Allah in that sermon, praised him, reminded him of certain things and preached. Then he asked: “Which day is more holy? Which day is more holy? Which day is more holy?" In Muslims: “The day of Hajj Akbar; It is the first day of Eid-al-Adha.” they said. Thereupon, they said: Your blood, property, chastity, this day, this month, this town are as sacred and unlawful. Be careful! Every murderer will be punished himself. No father can be held responsible for the crime of his child, and no child can be punished for what his father did. please! A Muslim is the brother of a Muslim. Unless a Muslim makes it halal himself, something of his brother is not halal for him. Be careful! All interest in the period of ignorance was abolished. Your principal funds are yours. You will not do injustice and you will not see injustice. The first interest removed was Abbas b. Abdulmuttalib had interest and all of them were abolished. Notice that all blood feuds in the period of ignorance were also abolished, and the first blood feud abolished was Haris b. Abdulmuttalib's blood feud. Haris Leys was killed by Huseyl while he was breastfeeding his sons. please! Be nice to women, they are powerless people living under your shelter. Do not try to harm them, but separate them in their beds if they commit an obvious crime. If they still don't get better, you can beat them by not hurting them. Do not try to find fault with them as long as they obey you. please! Women have rights over you just as you have rights over women. Your right over your women is that they do not let anyone you dislike or dislike into your home. Be careful, their right on you is to behave well in terms of food and clothing, to eat from what you eat and to dress from what you wear. (Ibn Majah, Menasik: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. In the hadith of Ebû'l Ahvas, Şebîb b. Narrated by Gargade.
3368-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) what day is the Hajj Akbar day: “It is the first day of Eid al-Adha.” they ordered. (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3369-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: The day of Hajj Akbar is the first day of Eid-al-Adha. (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is from Muhammad b. It is stronger than the narration of Ishaq. Because Muhammad b. In Ishaq, they narrated the same hadith from Abu Ishaq, Haris and Ali. Muhammed b. We do not know whether this hadith was narrated as merfu except the one reported from Ishaq. Shu'ba reported this hadith from Abu Ishaq to Abdullah b. He narrated from Murra, Haris and Ali as mawkuf.
3370-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) wanted Surah Barae to be recited with Abu Bakr and sent it, then he called him and said: One of my family members should fulfill these verses. He called Ali and gave it to Ali. (Musnad: 12737) This hadith is from Anas b. As the narration of Malik, it is hasan garib.
3371-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent Abu Bakr as a pilgrim commander and informed him of what he would do during the Hajj. Then he sent Ali after him. While Abu Bakr continued on his way; He heard the voice of Kasvan, the camel of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and became alarmed, guessing that the person coming was the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Then he met Ali. Ali gave the letter of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) to Abu Bakr. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered that the information in the letter be announced. They walked together and made their pilgrimage. Ali stood up during the days of teshrik and made the following announcement: The protection of Allah and the Prophet is far from every polytheist. O polytheists, wander around the earth for four more months from now on. However, after this year, no polytheist will perform the pilgrimage. A naked person will not be able to circumambulate the Ka'ba. Only believers will enter Paradise. Ali was conveying these messages and when he was tired, Abu Bakr would announce them to people. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) In this form, this hadith is hasan garib as a narration from Ibn Abbas.
3372-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Yuseyyi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We asked Ali under which orders were you sent during the pilgrimage season. He said: I was sent with four things; Naked circumambulation will not be permitted. If there is a contract between the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and a polytheist, that contract will continue until its expiration. The duration of those who do not have a contract is four months. Only a believer will enter Paradise. After this year, Muslims and polytheists will not be able to come together for Hajj and Umrah. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan. Sûfyan b. Uyeyna narrated this hadith from Abu Ishaq. Thawri, on the other hand, narrated this hadith from Abu Ishaq, some of Abu Ishaq's friends and Ali.
3373-) Nasr b. Ali and many others, Sufyan b. From Uyeyna, from Abu Ishaq, Zayd: b. They narrated similarly from Yuseyyi and Ali.
3374-) Ali b. Hasrem Sûfyan b. From Abu Ishaq through Uyeyne, from Zayd b. He narrated a similar hadith from Usay and Ali. It is narrated from Ibn Uyeyna in both narrations and it is also called from "Ibn Usey" or "Ibn Yusey". The correct one is Zayd b. It is Üsey. Shu'ba narrated this hadith from Abu Ishaq and Zayd, and got delusional in his deed and Zayd b. Usey said. No one obeyed him in this regard.
3375-) According to what was narrated from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If you see someone's habit of praying in and out of mosques, bear witness to his faith because Allah says: (Ayat 18 of Surah At-Tawba) “Visiting, repairing and maintaining the mosques of Allah, keeping them alive and keeping them at the top, belongs only to those who believe in Allah and the Last Day, who are constantly and truthfully in their prayers, pay their zakat, and are not afraid of anyone but Allah. These are the ones who are hoped to be among the righteous.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3376-) Ibn Abi Omar, Abdullah b. Through Wahb Amr b. He narrated to us a hadith similar to the hadith from Haris, Derraj, Abu'l-Haytham and Abu Said, and said that he was tied to the mosque. This hadith is hasan garib. Ebû'l Heysem's name is Süleyman b. Amr b. Abdul Utvari. He was an orphan under the care of Abu Said al-Khudri.
3377-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The 34th verse of Surah At-Tawba; “O you who believe! Know that most of the rabbis and priests devour people's property unjustly and hinder them from the way of Allah. But those who collect all that gold and silver and do not spend it in the way of Allah, give them the good news of a severe torment in the next life.” When it was revealed, we were together with the Prophet on a journey. Even if we knew, they said, if we had acquired it. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The most valuable thing is the tongue that remembers Allah all the time, the heart that serves with gratitude for Allah's blessings, and the woman who helps her man in his belief." (Ibn Majah, Nikah: 27) This hadith is hasan. Muhammed b. I said to Ismail: Salim b. Did he hear any hadith from Abu'l Ca'd Sevban? I said no, he replied. Then from whom did he hear hadiths from the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)? Said. Jabir b. Abdullah and Enes b. He said he heard from Malik and counted a few of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam).
3378-) Adiy b. According to a narration from Hatim (radiyallahu anh), he said: I came to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) with a gold cross on my neck. They said: O Adiyy, throw this idol off. They were also reading the 31st verse of the chapter of Tawba and said: Although they were not worshiping their rabbis and priests. But when they made something haram, they considered it haram and what they made halal, they considered it halal. (This means taking someone other than Allah as Lord.) (As reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange. This hadith was only reported by Abdus Salam b. We know from the narration of Harb. Gutayf b. A'yan is not a well-known person in the hadith.
3379-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), Abu Bakr told him: While I was in the cave with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), I said to him: “If one of them looked at their feet, they would see us in the cave.” Thereupon, he said, “O Abu Bakr, what do you think two people, the third of whom is Allah?” they ordered. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fezail: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. This hadith is narrated only by the narration of Hemmâm. Habban b. Hilal and other people narrate this hadith similarly from Hemmâm.
3380-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar b. I heard from Khattab that he was saying: Abdullah b. When Ubay died, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was called to his funeral prayer and he got up and left. When I went in front of the funeral to pray, I got up and stood at the level of his chest, and while you were the one who said such and such about him on such and such days, the enemy of Allah, Abdullah b. Are you going to pray for Ubayy's funeral? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) was smiling when I spoke to him, O Omar, stay away from me! I am left with a choice between two things and I have chosen one. In Surah At-Tawba, verse 80; “Now, whether you pray to Allah for the forgiveness of those hypocrites or not, nothing will change. If you ask for forgiveness for them, ask forgiveness seventy times, and Allah will not forgive them for their attempt to deny Allah and His Messenger. Because Allah will not guide a society so deeply immersed in evil.” It was said that if I had known that if I exceeded seventy, I would be forgiven, I would have asked for forgiveness more than seventy. He performed the funeral prayer and walked with the funeral, and stood by the grave until the burial was finished. Umar continued his words as follows: I was amazed at my courage against the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). By Allah, the Messenger of Allah knew this too. Some time after the burial, the following verse was revealed: Repentance 84 - 85; “Don't be envious of their worldly wealth and the happiness they expect from the abundance of their children. With all these, Allah wants to torment them in this world and to let their souls die as disbelievers.” When a surah is revealed that says, "Believe in Allah and fight with His Messenger," those who have wealth among them ask your permission. They say let us go and stay with what's left of the war." Umar said: "After that, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) did not perform the funeral prayer of any hypocrite, nor did he stand by his grave." (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Cenaiz: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3381-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abdullah b. When Ubay's son Abdullah died, he came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said, "If you give me your shirt, I will make it a shroud for my father, and I want you to pray for my father's funeral and pray for my father's forgiveness." The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) gave him his shirt. He said, "Let me know when the techiz and the takf are finished." Then, when he wanted to pray the funeral prayer, Umar pulled himself up to him and said, "Didn't Allah forbid the hypocrites to perform the funeral prayer?" said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I am free between two things; “Pray or don't…” Then he offered his funeral prayer. Then Allah revealed verses 84.85 of Surah At-Tawba: Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stopped performing the funeral prayer of the hypocrites. (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 117) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3382-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: 108. verse of Tawba, two people; “O prophet! Never set foot in a place like this. The most suitable mosque to step into is the one that has been raised on the basis of a solid consciousness and sensitivity towards Allah from the very first day, where there are people who are overflowing with the desire to be purified. And Allah loves those who purify themselves.” They quarreled about the mosque. Someone said, "It is the Quba mosque". The other is “The Masjid of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam).” said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said; “It is that mosque of mine.” he commanded. (Muslim, Hajj: 27; Nesai, Mesacid: 17) This hadith is from Imran b. As the narration of Abi Anas, it is hasan sahih garib. It was narrated from Abu Said in other ways. Unays b. Ab'il Yahya narrated this hadith from his father and Abu Said.
3383-) It was narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The following verse (Tawba 108) was revealed about the Cubans: Indeed, Allah loves those who are purified.” Abu Huraira said: "The people of Kuba used to be cleaned with water, this verse was revealed about them." (Ibn Majah, Tahara: 17) This hadith is strange as it is. In this regard, Abu Ayyub, Enes b. Malik, Muhammed b. Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Salam.
3384-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard a man asking forgiveness for his polytheist parents, and do you ask forgiveness for him even though your parents are polytheists? said. He too is Ibrahim (against the peace), although his father was a polytheist; hadn't he? said. I conveyed the situation to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and the 113th verse of Tawba was revealed: "After it is clear that those who ascribe divinity to others from Allah are in Hell, it no longer suits the prophet or believers to ask forgiveness for them, even if they are close relatives. ” (Nesai, Cenaiz: 17) This hadith is hasan. In this regard, Said b. Hadith was also narrated from Musayyeb and his father.
3385-) Ka'b b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I did not lag behind any of the battles that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) waged until the battle of Tabuk, except for the battle of Badr. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) did not condemn anyone who remained in the battle of Badr. Because he went to war by referring to the caravan. Then they came to the caravans of Quraysh to help them. They met at Badr without a contract, as Allah has commanded in the 42nd verse of Surah Anfal. I swear on my life that the most honorable battle of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) encounter with the polytheists was the battle of Badr. Despite this, I do not wish that we met at Badr instead of our meeting on the night of Aqaba, because we promised Islam on the night of Aqaba, that day is more precious and valuable. After that, I did not lag behind the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) anywhere until the Battle of Tabuk. Tabuk was the last battle of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) made an announcement to the people to go to war. Ka'b b. Malik explained this hadith at length and finally said: “… I went to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). I found him sitting in the masjid. There were Muslims around him, and he was shining like the moon's glow among the people. When he was happy for a job, he would smile. I came and sat in front of it; “O Ka'b! Rejoice, glad tidings for the best day that has come upon you since the day your mother gave birth to you… Me too; O Messenger of Allah, is this good news from you or from Allah? said. He said it is from Allah and recited the following verses: (Surat at-Tawba 117. 118.) "The truth is that when the hearts of some of the believers were about to drop, Allah forgave the Prophet, the Muhajirs and Ansar, who followed him in a time of trouble, and then they accepted their repentance. Indeed, Allah is very compassionate and merciful to believers.” “And he accepted the repentance of the three remnants of the war (who are Ka'b b. Malik, Hilal b. Umayya, Murâre b. er-Rabî). Despite the vastness of the earth, it was narrow for them, and their consciences were squeezing more and more. Finally, they realized that there was no other solution but to seek refuge in Allah. Thereupon, he again turned to those three people with compassion so that they might feel remorse and repent; because it is only Allah Who accepts repentance by encompassing everyone who turns to him from the heart and takes refuge with his compassion and mercy.” It was revealed about us in the 119th verse of the chapter of At-Tawba: “O you who believe! Try to find your way with the Book of Allah, be of the truthful and be with the truthful.” He says: I said, O Prophet of Allah. The reason why my repentance was accepted is only because I tell the truth and donate all my property in the way of Allah and His Messenger. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Save some of your property for yourself, it is better for you." I said that I will keep my share in Khyber. Ka'b continued his words as follows: When I told the truth to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) with my two friends, Allah did not give me a greater blessing than telling the truth to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) after converting to Islam. We didn't lie. Otherwise, we would perish like those who lied. I sincerely hope that Allah does not try anyone else as he tried me with righteousness. After this incident, I did not knowingly tell any lies. I sincerely ask God to protect me for the rest of my life. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul-Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Tawba: 17) This hadith was narrated in a different narration from Zuhri. Abdurrahman b. Abdullah b. Ka'b b. Malik's father Ka'b b. Malik's uncle is from Ubeydullah and Ka'b. At the same time, another type of deed is mentioned. Yunus quoted this hadith from Zuhri, Abdurrahman b. Abdullah b. Ka'b b. Malik's father Ka'b b. It is also narrated that Malik told…
3386-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abu Bakr sent a man to me after the Yemeni people were killed. Then Umar b. I found Khattab with him. Abu Bakr said: 'Umar came to me and said: "The situation has intensified with the killing of the Qur'an memorizers in the Yamama incident. I am worried that there will be such incidents against Qur'an memorizers in all regions, in which case many Qur'an memorizers will perish. That's why I am of the opinion that you should order the Qur'an to be compiled and collected. Abu Bakr replied to Umar: How can I do something that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not do? Omar said: I swear this job is good. Ömer continued to apply to me on this issue. As a result, Allah opened my heart to the issue that opened Omar's heart, and I followed Omar's view. Zayd said: Abu Bakr said: You are young, you are smart, we trust you. You were one of the revelation scribes of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). Research the Qur'an. Zayd said: By Allah, if they had charged me to carry one of the mountains, it would not have been more difficult for me. I said, 'How can you do something that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not do? Abu Bakr said: By Allah, this is a good job. Abu Bakr and Omar continued to apply to me on this matter, as a result, Allah opened my heart to the thing that opened the hearts of those two; I began to research the Qur'an from pieces of paper and leather, date palm bark, inscriptions on stones, and chests of hafiz. We read the 128th and 129th verses of the chapter of at-Tawba to Huzeyme b. I found it in Sâmit. (Bukhari, Jihad: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3387-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), Huzeyfe b. Yeman, Osman b. Arrived in Affan, Osman, together with Iraqis, was preparing for war for the conquest of Damascus, Armenia and Azerbaijan. Huzeyfe saw some conflicts about the Qur'an and Osman b. To Affan: O Commander of the Believers! Said. He said, "Just as Jews and Christians differed and disagreed, come to this ummah without conflicting about the Qur'an and do what you have to do." Thereupon, Osman sent a message saying, "Send us that mushaf, which is the only copy written to Hafsa, and we will reproduce it and return it." Hafsa sent the mushafi to Osman. In Osman (radiyallahu anh): Zayd b. Sabit, Said b. As, Abdurrahman b. Haris b. Hisham and Abdullah b. He instructed Zubayr to reproduce mushafs from this mushaf. Osman to this team consisting of three Quraysh people, Zayd b. Write the place where you disagreed with Thabit in the dialect of Quraysh because the Qur'an was revealed in their dialect. Finally, they multiplied the mushafs. Osman (radiyallahu anh) sent each of those mushafs to certain centers. (Bukhari, Jihad: 27) said: Harice b. Zayd, Zayd b. He reported that Thabit told me: I searched for a verse from the chapter of Ahzab and heard the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) recite it (23rd verse of the chapter of Ahzab). I found it next to Thabit or Abu Huzeyme and put it in the required place of the surah. He said: In those days, they differed on “tabût” and “Tabuh”. The Qurayshis call it Tabut. Zayd b. If it was stable, it was saying Tabuh. This issue was taken to Osman. Osman said, "Write Tabut because the Qur'an was revealed in the dialect of Quraysh. says: Ubeydullah b. Abdullah b. Utba told me as follows: Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Zayd b. He didn't like the job of Sabit's writing the Mushafs and said: O Muslim community, would I be kept away from the work of writing the Mushafs and would another man take over this job? By Allah, that Zayd b. I became a Muslim while I was in the loins of a fixed unbeliever. Therefore, Abdullah b. Mas'ud spoke to the Iraqis as follows: O Iraqis, hide the Mushafs with you and keep them secret. See Allah in the 161st verse of Âl-i Imran; “It is not something for a prophet to betray the booty, whoever commits such a treachery will come on the Day of Judgment by bearing the sin of the thing he has betrayed. Then everyone will be given exactly what he has earned, and they will not be wronged at all.” God says so. May you meet Allah with the Mushafs in your hands. He says: It is among the news that reached me that some of the prominent people of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not tolerate these speeches of Ibn Mas'ud. This hadith is hasan authentic. We know this hadith only through the narration of Zuhri.
3388-) According to the narration from Suheyb (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) verse 26 of Surah Yunus: “Those who are persistent and determined to do good and beneficial deeds, there is something better and more than that in return. On the Day of Resurrection, neither darkening nor vileness and contempt will cover their faces. These are the people of Paradise, they will stay there forever.” He said about him: When the inhabitants of Paradise enter Paradise, a caller will say: There is a promise for you with Allah. God wants to fulfill this promise for you. And the inhabitants of Paradise will say: Have our faces not whitened? Didn't he protect us from Hell and put us in Heaven? At that time, the curtain will open. Allah has not given the people of Paradise anything more precious than seeing Himself. (Muslim, Faith: 27; Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 17) Hammad b. Many people have narrated this hadith of Salama as merfu from Hammad. Suleiman b. Muğîre reported this hadith from Sabit, Abdurrahman b. They quoted it from Abi Layla as his own words. They did not say, "From Suheyb and the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam)".
3389-) According to a narration from an Egyptian, he said: 64. verse of Surah Yunus to Abu'd Darda; “There are good news for them both in this worldly life and in the next life. There is no change in God's promise. He definitely fulfills his promise. That is the great salvation and happiness.” I asked about He said: No one has asked me about this verse since I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The good news in this world is the good dream a Muslim sees." (Muvatta: Mosque: 6)
3390-) Ibn Abi Omar, through Sufyan Abdulaziz b. Rufey, Abu Salih es Semman, Ata b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Yesâr, an Egyptian and Abu'd Darda.
3391-) Ahmed b. Abde ed Dabbi, Hammad b. Zayd through Asim b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Behdele, Abu Salih, and Abu'd Darda, and in his deed, "Ata b. There is no "yesâr". In this regard, Ubade b. A hadith has also been narrated from Samit.
3392-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: As soon as Allah buried the pharaoh in the waters, the Pharaoh said, (Sura Yunus 90. verse) “Then we passed the Children of Israel to the other side of the sea; Thereupon, Pharaoh and his army followed them with cruelty and attack, and the waves of the sea covered them, and when Pharaoh was about to drown, he said, "I believe now, there is no true god but the God that the Children of Israel believe in, and I am one of those who surrender myself to Him." Gabriel: "O Muhammad, you should have seen me stuffing mud in his mouth at the bottom of the sea because I was afraid that mercy would reach him!" (Musnad: 2027) This hadith is hasan.
3393-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), Adiyy b. Thabit and Atâ b. One of the Saib narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as merfu: “Fearing that the pharaoh would say la ilaha illallah and God would have mercy on him, Gabriel tried to stuff mud in the mouth of the pharaoh.” (Musnad: 2027) In this way, this hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3394-) According to a narration from Abu Razin (radiyallahu anh), he said: I said: O Messenger of Allah. Where was God before he created his creatures? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "He was in a dark and unknown place, where there was no air above or below it. He created his throne on water.” Ahmed b. Meni' says: Yazid b. Aaron said: “But” means there is no being with him. (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 19) Similarly, Hammad b. Seleme, Vekî' b. He said from Hades. Shu'be is Abu Avâne, Hüseym, Vekî' b. Ades says. That is what is true. Abu Rezîn's name was Lekît b. It is Amr. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3395-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Allah gives the oppressor an opportunity, maybe a respite, and when he catches him, he will not let him go." Then he recited the 102nd verse of the chapter of Hud: “Here is how your Lord will seize the communities of the cities that act contrary to the purpose of existence. Undoubtedly, His grip is very severe and very difficult.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 17; Muslim, Birr: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Abu Usama narrated a similar hadith from Bured and said, "It gives an opportunity".
3396-) Ibrahim b. Said el Cevherî, from Abu Usama, Burayd b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Abdullah's grandfather, Abu Burda, and Abu Musa, and without hesitation said, "It gives an opportunity."
3397-) Omar b. According to the narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), "When that day comes, no one will be able to speak without Allah's permission. Some of those gathered on that day will be sad and unhappy, and some will be happy and joyful.” When the 105th verse of Surah Hud was revealed, I asked the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). O Prophet of Allah, are we acting for something that is certain, or are we working and striving for a position that has not been ordained by Allah? Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) became certain, on the contrary, on what the pens had written. (Abu Dawud, Sunna: 17) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Only Abdullah b. We know with the narration of Omar.
3398-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), a man came to the Prophet and said: "I had sex with a woman in a distant part of the city, I did everything except sexual intercourse with her. Upon this, Omar said: "If you had covered yourself, Allah would have covered you too." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not respond to him in any way. The man is gone. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent someone after that man and called him and recited the following verse: “Be persistent and sensitive to praying at the beginning and end of the day, and in the early hours of the night. Because good deeds remove evil. This is an admonition and a reminder for those who remember Allah." (Surah Hud, 114) Thereupon, a man from there asked: Is this practice only for him? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "It belongs to all." (Bukhari, Mawaqit: 17; Muslim, Tawba: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. Israel also narrated something similar from Simak, Ibrahim, Alkame, Aswad, and Abdullah. Sûfyan es Sevrî, from Simak, İbrahim, Abdurrahman b. He narrated a similar hadith from Yazid and Abdullah. Simak b. He narrated a similar hadith from Harb, Ibrahim, Aswad and Abdullah.
3399-) Muhammed b. Yahya en Neysabûrî, Muhammed b. From Sufyan, Amesh, Simak, Ibrahim, Abdurrahman b. He narrated a similar hadith from Yazid and Abdullah in terms of meaning.
3400-) Muhammed b. Gaylân, Fadl b. From Sufyan, Simak, İbrahim, Abdurrahman b. Yazid, Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith in terms of meaning from Mas'ud and did not say "from A'mesh". Süleyman et Taymi narrates this hadith from Osman an Nehdi and Ibn Mas'ud.
3401-) Muâz b. According to a narration from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said, “O Messenger of Allah! What would you say about a guy like this? A man met a woman he didn't know and did everything he could to his wife, but did not engage with her. Thereupon, Allah said: “Be persistent and sensitive to praying at the beginning and end of the day, and also in the early hours of the night. Because good deeds remove evil. This is an admonition and a reminder for those who remember Allah." He revealed the 114th verse of the chapter of Hud. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered that person to perform ablution and pray. Muaz said: O Messenger of Allah! Does this app belong only to that person? Or does it belong to all believers? Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); "On the contrary, it belongs to all believers," they said. (Musnad: 21096) The certificate of this hadith is not absolute. Abdurrahman b. Ebî Leyla, Muâz b. He did not hear any hadith from Cebel. Muaz b. He died during the caliphate of Cebel Omar. When Umar was martyred, Abdurrahman b. Abi Layla was a little boy of six years old. He saw Umar and narrated hadiths from him. Shu'ba reported this hadith from Abdulmalik b. Umair, Abdurrahman b. It was narrated from Abu Layla and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as mursal.
3402-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), A man; He had received a kiss from a woman even though he knew it was haram. He came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and asked about the expiation of this and said, "Be careful and sensitive to praying at the beginning and end of the day, and also in the early hours of the night. Because good deeds remove evil. This is an admonition and a reminder for those who remember Allah." The 114th verse of Surah Hud was revealed. That man asked if this app belongs to me alone. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied, "You and everyone from my ummah who has fallen into this situation". (Bukhari, Mawaqit: 17; Muslim, Tawba: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3403-) According to what is reported from Abu'l Yusir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A woman came to me to buy dates. I said: "The dates inside are better than these." Then the woman went in with me; I bent down and kissed the woman. Then I came to Abu Bakr and explained the situation to him. Abu Bakr said: "Hide this matter, repent and do not tell anyone." I could not bear it, so I came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and explained the situation to him. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Would you have done this to the family of a veteran fighting in the way of Allah?" That man said at that moment, "If I had not become a Muslim" and thought that he was from Hell. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) bowed his head for a long time and Allah said to him: "Be persistent and sensitive to praying at the beginning and end of the day, and also in the early hours of the night. Because good deeds remove evil. This is an admonition and a reminder for those who remember Allah." He revealed the 114th verse of the chapter of Hud. Yusir said: Then I came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) recited this verse to me. Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Messenger of Allah! Is this provision and application only to this person or to everyone?” they said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is for everyone". (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic. and others Qays b. They considered Rabi weak. Ebû'l Yusir, Ka'b b. It is Amr. Süreyk, Osman b. Abdullah had this hadith from Kays b. He narrated it like the narration of Rabi. In this regard, Abu Umama, Vasile b. Eska and Enes b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik.
3404-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Son of Abraham, son of Isaac, son of Jacob, Yusuf, who is the son of those who are generous… If I stay in prison as long as Yusuf stayed, If the officer came to get me out of prison, I would immediately accept and let him out. But when the envoy came to Yusuf, Yusuf said to the envoy, "Go back to your master and ask him: What was the purpose of the women who cut off their hands?" He read the 50th verse of Surah Yusuf: “And as soon as Yusuf's interpretation reached him, the ruler said, "Bring him to me." But when the envoys came to them, Yusuf said: “Go to your master and ask him, what was the purpose of those women who cut off their hands? You research it and figure it out. Because my Lord knows the snares of those women with all the truth.” May he have mercy on Lot. It stood on a solid foundation. So he relied on God. He had no one else to trust. Then Allah sent the other prophets from the people at the top of the society. (Musnad: 8041)
3405-) Abu Kureyb b. Through Abde and Abdurrahîm, Muhammed b. From Amr, Fadl b. Musa narrated to us a similar hadith. There is the following redundancy in this narration: “Allah sent every prophet after Lot from among his people who were wealthy.” b. Amr said wealth: “It is multiplicity and strength”. This narration was written by Fadl b. It is stronger than the narration of Moses. The hadith is hasan.
3406-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Jews came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said; “O Ebe'l Qasim! What is thunderstorm? Let us know about it?" they said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Ra'd is an angel from the angels who has a duty with clouds. Next to him are whips of fire that will direct the clouds to the right and left.” Jews: “Then what is this sound that we hear?” they asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is the sound made by force when the cloud drives it to reach the place where it is ordered." “You told the truth,” they said. Then, Yaqub, let us know what the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) made unlawful for himself. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "He was sick with sciatica, he realized that camel meat and milk were not good for him, so he made them haram for himself. The Jews said you told the truth." (Musnad: 2353) This hadith is hasan garib.
3407-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “… In the meantime, we make some of them different from others in their nut and flavor…” wa sallam) said: “Dry and wet dates, sweet and sour.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. b. This is how Unna narrated this hadith from A'mesh. Seyf b. Muhammed, Ammar b. He is the brother of Mohammed. Ammar is stronger than him. Ammar is the son of Sûfyan es Sevrî's sister.
3408-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: A plate of dates containing fresh dates was brought to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). Then he said: “Didn't you see? What kind of an example does Allah set: A clean word is like a clean tree, its root is firm and stable, its branches are in the sky. It always bears fruit with the permission of its Lord, and Allah brings such examples to people so that they may reflect and take a lesson.” He recited verses 24 and 25 of Surah Ibrahim and said: This tree is a date palm. Then, the example of an evil word is: “The situation of an ugly word is like the situation of a rotten tree whose root has been dug above the ground and which has no strength in any way.” He read the 26th verse of the chapter of Ibrahim and said: "This is Abu Jahl's watermelon." I narrated this hadith to Abu'l 'Aliya in the same way, and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "How well and truthfully he said it." (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3409-) Qutayba, Abu Bakr b. Shuayb b. Habhab from his father, Enes b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us in terms of meaning from Malik, without merfu. He did not mention the words of Ebû'l Âliye. This narration was written by Hammad b. It is stronger than Salama's narration. so many narrators have narrated it as mawkuf. Hammad b. We do not know of anyone other than Salama who narrated the merfu. Ma'mer, Hammad b. Zayd and many others narrate this hadith without merfu .
3410-) Ahmed b. Abde ed Dabbi, Hammad b. Through Zayd Shuayb b. He narrated a similar hadith of Qutayba from Habhab, from Anas, without compromising.
3411-) According to the narration from Bara (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said in the 27th verse of the chapter of Ibrahim; “Allah strengthens the status of believers in this world and in the Hereafter, with the understanding and belief expressed by the word kalima-i tawhîd, which is a firm and firmly consistent word. He leaves those who go beyond the purpose of existence in error, and Allah does what He wills.” He said: "Who is your Lord in the grave? Which religion you belong to? Who is your prophet? when asked.” (Bukhari, Janaiz: 17; Muslim, Jannat: 27) This hadith is hasan.
3412-) According to the narration from Masrûk (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: From Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the 48th verse of Abraham Surah; “The promise of Allah will be fulfilled on the day when the earth will be transformed into another place, and the sky into another sky, and on the day when all people will appear before Allah, Who exists, is one, and is sovereign over everything.” He read and O Messenger of Allah! “Where will the people be that day?” he asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said: "On the line". (Muslim, Sıfat-ül Kıyama: 17; İbn Mâce: Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Aisha in different ways.
3413-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: One of the most beautiful women used to pray behind the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Some of the congregation would see him and go to the front so that his worship would not be harmed. Some of them would stay behind, pray in the back row and look under their armpits during ruku'. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 24th verse of Surah Hijr. (Nesâî, İmame: 17; İbn Mâce, İkamet-üs Salat: 27) Cafer b. Suleiman reported this hadith from Amr b. He narrated from Malik in a similar way from Abu'l Cevza and did not say "from Ibn Abbas". Of these two similar narrations, the last one is more authentic than Noah's narration.
3414-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Hell has seven gates. One of them is for those who draw a sword against my Ummah or the Ummah of Muhammad.” (Musnad: 5431) This hadith is garib. Only Malik b. We know from the Mighvel narrative.
3415-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: He interpreted the 87th verse of Surah al-Hijr and listed the names of Surah Fatiha as follows: “Alhamdulillah” Ummul Qur'an, Ummul Book, Seb. -ul Mesani.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 17; Nesai, Iftitah: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3416-) Ubey b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Allah did not send down a surah like Ummul Qur'an, which is also called Surah Fatiha in the Torah and the Bible. He is Seb-ul Mesani. That surah has been divided between me and my servant. My servant will be given what he wants. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 17; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 27)
3417-) Kutaybe, Abdulaziz b. Through Muhammad, Ala b. Abdurrahman, from his father and from Abu Huraira, narrated a similar meaning to this hadith, which started with the words "The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) came to him while Ubay was praying...". Abdulaziz b. The hadith of Muhammad is longer and complete. This narration is Abdulhamid b. It is more authentic than the narration of Jafar. Many people refer to this hadith as Ala b. They narrated from Abdurrahman.
3418-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “By your Lord, we will ask all of them. And taking into account all that they've done." He said about the 92nd 93rd verses of the Hijr Surah: From the word Lailahe illallah. (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is garib and only Leys b. We know from the narration of Abu Sulaym. Abdullah b. İdris, Leys b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abi Sulaym, Bishr, and Anas, without compromising it.
3419-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Beware of the understanding and sharp intelligence of a believer. He said, "He sees the truth with the light of Allah," and he read the 75th verse of Surah al-Hijr: "There are many lessons to be learned from all these for those who know how to make sense of the signs." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. we know this way. Some scholars have also narrated this hadith. The meaning of the word "mutawassimîn" in the verse has been interpreted as understanding people.
3420-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar b. I heard Khattab say: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "A four-rak'ah sunnah prayer performed after the sun has shifted from its zenith to the west and before the noon prayer yields twice as much reward as the morning prayer." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: "There is no being who does not glorify Allah at that hour." Then he recited verse 48 of the chapter of Nahl: "Then, do those who cover up the truth not see the objects created by Allah? How do their shadows turn to the right and to the left, completely submitting to the will of Allah, and fall down in reverence and reverence for Allah? (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is garib and only Ali b. We know from the narration of Asim.
3421-) Ubey b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the battle of Uhud was over, sixty-four of the Ansar and six of the Muhajirs, including Hamza, were martyred. Thereupon, the Ansar said that if we killed some of them in another war, we would definitely do more than the "musle" they did to them. On the day of the conquest of Mecca, Allah revealed the 126th verse of the chapter of Nahl; “If you are going to punish a person or a society, punish them as they punish you and the same amount. But if you restrain yourself, know that this attitude is better and better for those who know how to face difficulties.” Thereupon, a man said: After that, the Quraysh's work is finished, now the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Do not touch anyone but four people." (Musnad: 20280) This is Ubay b. Ka'b hadith is hasan garib.
3422-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When I was taken to the Miraj, I met Moses -Abu Hurayra said that he had listed his features- and I also saw that his hair was not curly and he was tall. someone similar to the shenue men. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: I met Isa, too, and he listed his characteristics as follows. I saw Ibrahim with medium taller cheeks, as if he had just stepped out of the bath, and I am the most like him among his sons. Two vessels were brought to me that night; One had milk and the other wine. I was told to buy whatever you want. I bought the milk and drank it. Thereupon, it was said to me that you were directed to the fitra, that is, to the natural thing, or you preferred the fitra. If you had preferred wine, your community would have been angry. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3423-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was brought to Miraj on the night he was taken to Mirac, on a board named Burak, which was brought in a saddled and bridled condition, and he had difficulties getting on it. At that time Jibril said: Are you doing this to Muhammad (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)? No one closer to Allah than him has ever ridden you. After that, Burak started to sweat.” (Musnad: 12211) This hadith is hasan garib. We know only from the narration of Abdurrezzak.
3424-) According to the narration from Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When we arrived at the holy mosque (Qudus), Jibril pierced the rock with his finger and tied Burak there. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3425-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "When Quraysh did not believe that I was going to Jerusalem in one night, I stood up in the Ka'ba called Hijr, and at that moment Allah opened the Bayti Makdis before my eyes. And looking at him, I began to tell them about his portents.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan. Malik b. Hadith was also narrated from Sa'saa, Abu Said and Ibn Abbas.
3426-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the "dream issue" in the 60th verse of Isra is not the dream in sleep, but the things he sees with the eyes of the night of Isra. The "cursed tree" is the oleander tree. (Bukhari, Menakib: 7) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3427-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Perform the prayer at certain times during the period from the peak of the sun until the darkness of the night. Do not forget the morning prayer, because the morning prayer is a prayer witnessed by the angels day and night, like the afternoon prayer.” He said about the 78th verse of the chapter of Isra: "The angels of the night and the angels of the day are present during this prayer." (Bukhari, Adhan: 27; Muslim, Masajid: 17) This hadith is authentic.
3428-) Ali b. Misher related this hadith from A'mash, Abu Salih, Abu Huraira and Abu Said in a similar way. as Ali b. Hucr, Ali b. He narrated the same hadith from A'mesh through Misher in a similar way.
3429-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “On that day, we will call every community together with the people they follow. Indeed, those whose book is given to their right hand will gladly read its minutes. However, no one will be treated unfairly by the bristle." He said about the 71st verse of the chapter of Isra: One of them is called and the book of deeds is given to his right hand. His body is stretched seventy cubits. His face is whitened. A crown of shining pearls is put on his head and he is on his way to his friends. His friends see him from afar and say: O Allah, deliver this brother to us and bless him for us. Finally, he comes to them and good news for you. There is the same reward for each of you. As for the disbeliever, his face is darkened. His body is enlarged to seventy cubits, and a crown is put on his head. His men see him and say: We seek refuge in Allah from the evil of this, they say, "O Allah, do not bring us together with him". He also comes to them. God humiliate him. Then he says, may Allah take you away, there is the same punishment for each of you. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Süddî's name is İsmail b. Abdurrahman.
3430-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, “Wake up in a part of the night and perform the tahajjud prayer, it is only for you and it is a prayer that is performed more than the obligatory prayers. It may be hoped that your Lord will raise you to a commendable position in the Hereafter.” The 79th verse of Isra Sura: “Makam-i mahmud; interpreted as intercession.” (Musnad: 9307) This hadith is hasan. Dâvûd ez Zeafirî, Dâvûd el Evedî b. Yazid b. Abdullah b. He is the uncle of Idris.
3431-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered Mecca in the year of conquest, there were three hundred and sixty idols around the Ka'ba. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) started hitting them with his stick or a piece of staff and saying: He read the 81st verse of Isra Surah and the 49th verse of Saba' Sura: “And yet say: “The unchanging truth has come, and everything that is false and inconsistent, that is aimless and meaningless, has been destroyed. What is false and inconsistent has to collapse sooner or later.” “Say: “The true and real system, Islam, has arrived. From now on, systems that are superstitious, meaningless and false, can neither bring anything new nor bring back the past.” (Bukhari, Mazalim: 27; Muslim, Jihad: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Umar on the subject.
3432-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was in Mecca, then he was ordered to migrate and the following verse was revealed: “And while praying, say: “O my Lord! ! Make sure that I enter every business I undertake with integrity and sincerity, and that I exit every business I leave with integrity and sincerity; and give me from Yourself a supportive strength and strength.” (The 80th verse of the chapter of Isra.) (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3433-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Qurayshis said to the Jews, tell us some things so that we can ask this man (Muhammad). And the Jews said: Ask him about the spirit. Thereupon, the Meccan polytheists of Quraysh asked the Prophet about the spirit. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 85th verse of the chapter of Isra; “They ask you about the spirit, that is, the spirit of man, Gabriel, the coming of revelation and the coming of the Qur'an from Allah, say: “The spirit is at my Lord's command. You have been given very little information on this subject.” They said: We have been given the Torah, which is a great source of knowledge. They said, Whoever is given the Torah means that he has been given great good. Thereupon, the 109th verse of the chapter of al-Kahf was revealed: "Say: If the seas were ink to write the words of my Lord, and if we added sea to the sea, the seas would be exhausted before the words of my Lord were finished." (Musnad: 2195) This hadith is hasan authentic as it is.
3434-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I was walking with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in a crop field in Medina. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was leaning on a palm tree stick. Then he stopped by a group of Jews. While some of them said, "I wish you would ask him something," others said, "Don't ask him anything, he can tell you things you don't like." Then those Jews said, O Abu'l Qasim, tell us about the soul. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stood for a while and lifted his head, and I understood that he was receiving revelation. When the revelation was finished, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "They ask you about the spirit, that is, the spirit of man, Gabriel, the coming of the revelation and the coming of the Qur'an from Allah. Say, "The spirit is at my Lord's command. You have been given very little information on this subject.” Isra read verse 85. (Bukhari, Science: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-il Kıyama: 17) the hadith is hasan sound.
3435-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “People will gather in three classes on the Day of Judgment; One group is mounted, one group is pedestrian, and one group is crawling.” The Companions said: “O Messenger of Allah! How are they going to walk face down?” they said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Allah, Who is able to make them walk on their feet, is able to make them walk on their faces. They will avoid every bump and thorn with their faces. (Musnad: 8293) This hadith is hasan. They narrated this hadith from Tawus, his father, and Abu Huraira in a similar way.
3436-) Behz b. According to the narration from Hakim's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “You will gather in the place of Judgment as pedestrians, riders and those who crawl on their faces.” (Musnad: 19171) This hadith is hasan.
3437-) Safwan b. According to the narration from Assal (radiyallahu anh), one of the two Jews said to the other: Let's go to this prophet and ask him a question. The other said to him: Don't call him a prophet or something! Then, if he hears what you call a prophet, he will open his eyes. Then they came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and what are the nine miracles given to Moses, which is reported in the 101st verse of Isra Surah? they asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said: "1) Do not associate anything with Allah. 2) Do not commit adultery. 3) Do not kill a soul that Allah has forbidden to kill. 4) Do not steal. 5) Do not deal with magic and sorcery. 6) Do not take an innocent to a statesman to kill. 7) Do not eat the interest. 8) Do not accuse a chaste and chaste woman of adultery. 9) Do not run away from the war -with suspicion of Shu'be- obey the ban on Saturday, only for you.” Then those two Jews kissed the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) hand and both feet and said: "We testify that you are a prophet." he commanded. They said: David always prayed for a prophet to be found from his offspring. If we believe in you and become Muslims, we fear that the Jews will kill us. (Ibn Majah, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3438-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the 110th verse of Isra Surah was revealed in Mecca. If the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) raised his voice in the Qur'an he recited in his prayer, the polytheists would curse Allah, who sent it down, and the Prophet who came with him. "Don't raise your voice in prayer" is then insulted to the one who brought it down and brought it. “Do not lower your voice too much” Read it loud enough for the Companions to hear, so that they can learn the Qur'an from you. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan.
3439-) Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh) said the following about the verse “Do not raise your voice too much in prayer, do not turn down too much, and take a path between the two” in the 110th verse of Isra: It was at the time when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was hiding in Mecca. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) led his Companions in prayer, he would raise his voice while reciting the Qur'an. When the polytheists heard this, they would curse the Qur'an, the one who revealed it and the one who came with it. Thereupon, Allah said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Do not raise your voice too much when you recite it in prayer. Take a path between these two.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul-Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Salat: 17) the hadith is hasan sound.
3440-) Zir b. According to the narration from Hubaysh (radiyallahu anh), he said: Huzeyfe b. I asked Yaman if the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) prayed in the Bayt al-Maqdis. He replied no. So I said yes. Huzeyfe: Hey bald man, are you saying that? And on what basis are you saying it? said. I said to the Qur'an, the Qur'an is the arbiter between you and me. Huzeyfe said: Whoever shows evidence from the Qur'an -Sufyan says - means that he has brought solid evidence, or he who brings evidence from the Qur'an has won. Then Zir b. Hubaysh recited the first verse of the chapter of Isra. Huzeyfe: Do you think that he prayed in Masjid al-Aqsa? She asked. I said no. Huzayfa said: Do you think that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed in Masjid al-Aqsa? She asked. I said no. Huzayfa said: If the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had prayed in Masjid al-Aqsa, prayer would have been written on it as it was written in Masjid al-Haram. Huzayfa continued as follows: A long horse was brought to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); On the back of this Burak, whose name is as far as his eye can see, they saw all the promises of Heaven and Hell, together with Jibril. Then they turned, connecting their turn to their start. Huzayfa said: They talk about the binding of Burak, on which the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) rode. Is it because she's running away from him? However, Burak was placed under his command by Allah, Who knows all the realms of the unseen and the shudder. (Musnad: 22197) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3441-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I am the master of the sons of Adam on the Day of Judgment, but I am not proud of it, the flag of Hamd is in my hand. But I'm not bragging about it either. Both Adam and all other prophets will gather under my banner that day. Again, I am not proud of it, as I am the one who will be the first to split the earth and the apocalypse will be fulfilled. Then people will go through three fears and they will come to Adam and say, "You are our ancestor, Adam, and let your Lord intercede for us." He said, "I have committed a sin, and therefore I was brought down to earth. But you go to Noah. They come to Noah. Noah also says: I cursed the people of the world with a heavy curse, and therefore they perished. But you go to Abraham… They go to Abraham and he says: I told three lies. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Abraham defended the religion of Allah with these three lies. But you go to Moses. They come to Moses, Moses: I killed a man, that crime is enough for me, you go to Jesus. They come to Jesus. Jesus also says: I was worshiped besides Allah… But you go to Muhammad. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "They come to me and I go with them." Ced'an says: Enes (radiyallahu anh) was saying: It's as if I'm looking at the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) I will hold the ring of the door of Paradise and knock on the door. He will be asked who is he and he will be called Mohammed. They will open the door for me and greet me as a hello. I will prostrate myself. Allah will inspire me with praise. Then it will be said to me, raise your head. Whatever you wish; your wish will be fulfilled. Intercede, your intercession will be accepted, say your word, and your word will be heard. Sufyan said: The part quoted from Enes here is only the phrase "I will hold the ring of the door of Paradise and knock on its door". (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some have narrated this hadith from Abu Nadre in a longer way than Ibn Abbas.
3442-) Said b. According to the narration from Jubayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: To Ibn Abbas, Nevfel Bekali; I said that he says that Moses, the prophet of the Israelites, is not Moses, who was friends with Khidr. Ibn Abbas replied: The enemy of Allah has lied. Ubey b. I heard Ka'b say: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: While giving a sermon to the Children of Israel, Moses was asked: Who is the most knowledgeable of people? He said, "I am the most learned scholar." Because Allah did not give Moses the greatest knowledge, he condemned Moses and revealed to him the following. Where two seas meet, there is one of My servants who is more knowledgeable than you. Moses: O my Lord, how can I meet him? Allah said to Moses: Wherever you lose a fish and fish in Zenbil, that person is there. Moses set out. His man also set out with him. Musa's man, Yusha b. It is Nun, it is also called Yûseu. Moses placed the fish on the zenbile. They started walking with their friend. Finally they came to a rock. Moses and his man fell asleep. The fish in the zenbil started to move and came out of the zenbil and reached the sea. God cut off the flow of water from the fish, the water became like a belt, and a path for the fish was a wonder for Moses and his man. they walked without stopping during the day. Moses' man forgot to inform him that the fish had disappeared. In the morning, Moses said to his man, "Bring our bird food, really, this journey has tired us out." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Moses did not feel tired until he passed the place he was ordered to. Moses' man: You see, when we sat by the rock, I forgot the fish, and it is only the devil who makes me forget it and prevents me from telling you. How did the strange thing find its way to the water? Moses: This is what we were looking for! he said, and they immediately turned back on their tracks. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Following in their own footsteps". Sufyan said: Some people claim that there is a spring of life next to that rock. If the water of that spring touched a dead person, he would come to life immediately. Although some of the fish was eaten, it came to life when water dripped on it. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued as follows: They reached the rock, following in their footsteps. Moses saw a man covered with a veil and greeted him. That person said: "What is the greeting in your country?" Moses said, "I am Moses." That person: "Is it the Moses of the Children of Israel?" said. Moses said yes. Thereupon, that person said: “O Moses! You are with a knowledge that Allah has given you that I do not know. I am also on a science that Allah informed me about it. You do not know in this knowledge," he said. Moses said: "Can I follow you to teach me from the knowledge that you have been taught?" said. He said: “You cannot bear what will happen when you are with me. How can you endure something that doesn't fall within the realm of experience that you can't grasp inside?" Moses said: "If Allah wills, you will see I will endure and I will not show any discord with you in this matter." Khidr said to him: "If you will follow me, you will not ask me anything until I give you an explanation about what I will do." Moses said yes. Then, as Khidr and Moses began to walk along the sea, a ship approached them. Moses and Khidr talked to those on the ship to carry them. Because they knew Khidr, they put both of them on for free. Then Khidr plucked one of the planks of the ship and destroyed it. Thereupon, Moses said to him, “These people put us on for free, and you destroyed their ships on purpose. “You inflicted wounds on that ship to drown its contents? Honestly, he was kicked out because you did a very bad job.” He said: “I to you; Didn't I tell you that you could never bear it?" said. Moses said, "I have forgotten, so do not rebuke me for what I have done, do not cause me trouble." Then they got out of the ship, and while they were walking along the beach, they saw a boy playing with the children; Khidr killed that boy by cutting off his head with his hand. This time, Moses said: "You killed a pure soul without a soul? You really did a terrible job.” That person said: “Didn't I tell you; in case you really can't stand to be with me." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "This reminder was heavier than the first one." Moses replied, “If I ask you anything from now on, do not befriend me! Because I am no longer able to apologize.” Then they got up and left. Finally, they reached a town, and they asked for food, but no one came to host and feed them. They saw a wall about to collapse in this town, and he saved this wall from being demolished and fixed it with his hand. This time Moses said: “They did not host us, they did not feed us; If you had wished, you would have been paid for this work.” That person: “Here is the time of separation between you and me. I will tell you the inside of the events that you cannot bear." (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: May Allah have mercy on Musa. We would love for him to have been patient so that God would have conveyed the longer news of both of them to us. Ibn Abbas said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The first was a forgetting that occurred in Moses. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) continued: A sparrow landed on the edge of the ship and dipped its beak into the water. Khidr said: Your and my total knowledge does not decrease from the knowledge of Allah as much as that sparrow does. Said b. Jubayr said: Surah Ibn Abbas Kahf 79-82. He read the verses: “79) That ship belonged to the poor people who made their living from the sea. I wanted to make him flawed. For I knew that behind them was a ruler who seized every good ship by force.” 80) As for the boy I killed, his parents were believers. We were afraid that this child would lead them to rebellion and disbelief, so we killed him. 81) We wanted their Lord to replace this child with a cleaner, more merciful, benevolent child than him. “82) and as for the wall, that wall belonged to two orphan boys living in the town, and under it was buried a treasure that was theirs legally, and their father was a clean man. Your Lord wished that they would reach puberty and extract and acquire treasures. Therefore, I did not do all these things on my own. Here is the inside and the real meaning of the events you can't stand…” (Bukhari, Science: 17; Muslim: Fezail: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. Zuhri reported this hadith from Ubeydullah b. Abdullah b. From Utba, Ibn Abbas, Ubay b. He narrated from Ka'b. İshak al-Hamadani, Said b. Jubayr, Ibn Abbas, Ubay b. He narrated from Ka'b. I heard from Abu Muzâhim es Samarkandî that he was saying: Ali b. Medini said: "I made a pilgrimage, my sole purpose was to listen to Sufyan's narration of the incident in this hadith." I heard him say: “Amr b. Dinar told us” I had heard this hadith from Sufyan before, but he had not told this news in detail at that time.
3443-) Ubey b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "The child killed by Khidr was created as a disbeliever the moment he was created." (Bukhari, Science: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3444-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When Moses' friend was given the name "Khidr", the dry grass began to turn green and sway when he stood up on the dry grass. (Bukhari, Ehadith-ul-Anbiya: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3445-) According to the narration from Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said in the 82nd verse of the Kehf period: “There was a treasure under the wall that legally belonged to those children.” He said about the verse: A treasure made of "gold and silver". (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3446-) Hasan b. Ali, Safvan b. Through Salih, Velid b. Muslim, Yazid b. Yazid b. Yusuf es San'ani, Yazid b. He narrated this hadith similarly from Jabir and Makhûl. This hadith is garib.
3447-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about the wall mentioned in the 94th verse of the chapter of al-Kahf: Gog and Magog try to pierce that wall every day, and when they approach it, the chief at their head He calls out to them: "Come back, you will pierce it tomorrow." Allah will make the carved part of that wall stronger than the previous day. Finally, when their time expired and Allah wanted to release them on people; The official at their head will say the word "I hope you will pierce it tomorrow" and say, "I hope you will pierce it tomorrow." When they come the next day, they find the wall as they left it yesterday, and they go out among the people by piercing the wall. They drink all the water, People run away from them, they shoot their arrows into the sky, the arrows come back covered in blood. Thereupon, they will say in a spoiled state: We destroyed what was on earth and defeated what was in heaven. Then Allah creates a worm at the roots of their necks, so they all break off and disappear. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) continued: I swear by Allah, who holds the life of Muhammad in His Power, that all the animals on earth will eat the carcasses of Gog and Magog, and they will become fleshy and fat by being well fed. (Ibn Majah, Fitan: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. In this way, we only know with this narration.
3448-) Abu Sa'd b. Abi Fudale al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh) -who is a Companion- said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "When Allah gathers people on the Day of Judgment without a doubt, a caller will announce: Whoever is doing a job for Allah If he has made someone else a partner, let him ask for his reward from those he associates with other than Allah. Surely, Allah is the One Who is far from any partnership.” (Surah Kahf, verse 110) (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith is only reported by Muhammad b. We know from the story of Bakr.
3449-) Muğîre b. According to a narration from Shu'ba (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent me to Najran, the people of Najran said to me: Don't you read "sister"? However, didn't much time pass between Moses and Jesus? I did not know how to answer them, so I turned to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and explained the situation to him. He said: Didn't you inform them that they used the names of the prophets and righteous people before them? (Muslim, Adad: 27) This hadith is authentic. We know the hadith only through the narration of Ibn Idris.
3450-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the 39th verse of the chapter of Mary and said: Death will be brought in the form of a gray ram and will be stopped at a point between Paradise and Hell. Then it will be said, O people of Paradise, and they will all turn their heads and look in that direction. Then it will be said, O people of Hell, and they will turn their heads in that direction and they will all be asked: "Do you know this?" They will also say yes, this is death, then the ram they call death will be laid on the ground and strangled. If the inhabitants of Paradise had not appreciated life and eternity, they would have died of joy. At the same time, if Allah had not decreed eternity and living in Hell for the people of Hell, they would have died because of their grief. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Jannat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3451-) It was narrated from Qatada (radiyallahu anh). Mary said about verse 57: Anas b. Malik narrated to us that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When I went up to Miraj, I saw the Prophet Idris in the fourth floor of the sky.” (Nesai, Salat: 27) A hadith was also narrated from Abu Said on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Ebû Arûbe Hemmâm and many narrators, from Qatada, from Enes, from Malik b. They have long narrated the hadith of Miraj from Sa'sa. I think this hadith is part of it.
3452-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, is there any obstacle for you to visit us with Gabriel more than you visit us? She asked. Thereupon, verse 64 of the chapter of Mary was revealed: “And the angels said: “We descend only by the command of your Lord. Our past, our future, and everything in between is His, that is, subject to His command, and your Lord never forgets anything.” (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 27) This hadith is hasan garib.
3453-) Hüseyin b. Hureys, through Vekî' Ömer b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Zerrin.
3454-) According to the narration from Suddi (radiyallahu anh), he said: To Murra al-Hamadani; I asked him about the interpretation of the 71st verse of the chapter of Mary, and he gave it to Abdullah b. He said that Mas'ud reported it. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "All people will definitely go to Hell, and then they will get out of it in return for their deeds. The speed of those who will come out first is like the flash of lightning. Then like the wind, then like the running of the horse, then like the rider on the camel, then like the running of the people, then like the walking of the people, they will pass through the Sirat and be saved from Hell.” (Dârimî, Rikak: 17) This hadith is hasan. Shu'ba narrated it from Suddi without merfu.
3455-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said about the 71st verse of the chapter of Mary: "Everyone will go to that Hell and will be saved from it according to their deeds." (Darimi, Rikak: 17)
3456-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Abdurrahman b. He transmitted a similar hadith to us from Shu'ba, Suddi, through the Mahdi. Abdurrahman said: I said to Shu'ba: Israel told me this hadith from Suddi, Murra, Abdullah. He replied to Shu'ba: I heard this hadith from Suddi as a merfu, but I do not narrate it intentionally and leave it.
3457-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When Allah loves a servant, he calls out: “Gabriel, I loved so-and-so, and you love him.” Gabriel announces this to the sky. Then, that person's love is revealed to the people of the earth, so that the people on earth also love that person. This is the meaning of the 96th verse of the chapter of Mary. If Allah does not like one of his servants, he calls Jibril and says: "I am angry with such and such a servant, I do not like him." This message is announced in the sky. Then this news is revealed to the earth and people hate that person. (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 27; Muslim, Birr and Sıla: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abdurrahman b. Abdullah b. Dinar narrated this hadith similarly from his father, Abu Salih, and Abu Huraira.
3458-) According to the narration from Masrûk (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Habbab b. I heard Eret say: In order to collect a debt he has, As b. I came to Vâil es Sehmi. He said, 'I will not give you this debt unless you deny Muhammad. I said, 'I cannot deny it even until the day you die and resurrect. Will I be resurrected after I die? said. I said yes. Then he said, I will have my property and children there, I will give it to you there. For this reason, the 77th verse of the chapter of Mary was revealed: "Have you seen that man who denied Our verses and said, "I will certainly be given wealth and children" and rebelled? (Bukhari, Magic' 27; Muslim, Sifat-ul-Qiyame: 17)
3459-) Hennad narrated a similar hadith from Â'mesh through Abu Muawiya. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3460-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) walked all night while returning from the Battle of Khaybar, and when he got sleepy, he made his camel kneel down for rest and sleep and said, “O Bilal, to wake us up for the morning prayer. keep watch,” he said. Abu Huraira said: Bilal prayed for a while, then leaned on his camel to wait for the morning prayer, and he could not stand the lack of sleep and fell asleep. Thus, none of them could wake up for the morning prayer. Again, the first to wake up was the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said, “O Bilal”. Bilal said, "May my father and mother be sacrificed for your cause, I fell asleep because of the excessive insomnia that happened to you," he said. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to drive our camels out of this area. Then, he made his camel kneel down at another accommodation place, performed ablution, had the iqama brought for prayer, and prayed in the same time as he did without haste, and recited the 14th verse of Surah Taha, "Be persistent and sensitive in your prayer to remember Me". (Bukhari, Magic' 27; Muslim, Sıfat-ül Kıyama: 17) This hadith is not very popular, and many hadith memorizers read this hadith from Zuhri, Said b. They narrated from Musayyeb and did not say "Abu Hurayra" in their deed. Salih b. Abi'l Ahdar is said to be weak in hadith. Yahya b. Said al-Kattan and others considered him weak in terms of memory.
3461-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Wayl” is a stream in Hell that a disbeliever; for forty years it can only reach its bottom when it falls downwards. (Musnad: 11287) This hadith is strange, and we know this hadith only through the narration of Ibn Lehia.
3462-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), a man sat in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said, O Messenger of Allah! said. I have slaves, they lie to me, they betray me and they rebel against my orders, and I curse and beat them. What will happen to me because of these? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The punishment you inflict on them for their treachery against you, their rebellion and lies will be accounted for, and if your punishment is equal to theirs, the account will be head-to-head. You will neither receive nor give. If the punishment you give is below your crimes, you have to take from them. If the punishments you give are higher than their crimes, the excess will be taken from you as retaliation for them.” Thereupon, the man stepped aside and began to sob. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do you not read the Book of Allah? In the 47th verse of Surah Anbiya; What does Allah say: “And on the Day of Judgment, we will set up such accurate and sensitive scales that no one will be wronged in the slightest, and we will weigh everything, even if it is the size of a mustard seed. As the reckoner, no one can get ahead of us.” Thereupon, the man said: By Allah, O Messenger of Allah! I cannot find a solution other than the separation between these slaves and me. I hold you as my witness that they are all free. (Musnad: 25197) This hadith is strange, and this hadith was only reported by Abdurrahman b. We know from the narration of Gazvan. Ahmed b. Hanbal also reported this hadith as Abdurrahman b. He narrated from Gazvan.
3463-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Ibrahim (alaihis-salâm) lied about three things: 1) He said he was sick even though he was not sick (Saffat 89). 2) Saying she is my sister for his wife named Sara. 3) He said that he made the work of breaking and pouring the idols into a big idol (63rd verse of Surah Anbiya). (Bukhari, Ehadisil Anbiya: 17; Muslim, Fedail: 27) was also narrated from Abu Hurayra in another way, and the strangeness of the narration by Ibn Ishaq from Abu'z Zinad is not mentioned. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3464-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got up and gave a sermon and said: “O people, you will be brought out of your graves naked and uncircumcised and gather at the place of Judgment. Then he recited the 104th verse of Anbiya, then continued as follows: Abraham will be the first to be clothed on the Day of Judgment.” some people will be brought and put on the left side, that is, in the Hell section. And I will say, O Lord, they are from my nation. To me; It will be said, "You do not know what they have revealed in the name of religion after you". I also said that the true servant Jesus (Maida 117.118) said, “I did not tell them anything but what you commanded me to say. I said, Worship Allah, my Lord and your Lord. And as long as I lived among them, I was in control over them. When you took me from among them and raised me to your level, you were the only controller over them. You are already enough witness to everything. If you punish them, surely they are your servants. and if you forgive them, indeed you are the mighty and the supreme. You are the one who does everything you do properly.” I will say as he said. and it will be said to me: “After you left them, they turned from the religion of Islam and returned to their old religion.” (Bukhari, Rikak: 27; Muslim, Paradise: 17)
3465-) Muhammed b. Cafer, through Şu'be Muğîre b. Numan narrated a similar hadith to us. It is as if the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) announced that there would be apostasy after him.
3466-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) is in the chapter of Hajj 1-2. When the verses were revealed, it was at a time and to his Companions, do you know what day it was? said. The Companions said: Allah and His Messenger know better. Thereupon, they said: On that day, Allah will say to Adam, "Send the share of Hell to Hell." What is the share of Hell in Adam? Allah will say, nine hundred and ninety-nine in Hell, and one in Paradise. Thereupon, the Muslims began to cry. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Keep the middle way and turn to the right way. There is no prophet who did not have a period of ignorance before him. This number will be from the period of ignorance. If this number is not completed during the period of ignorance, it will be completed by the hypocrites. According to the previous nations, your example is like the protrusion on the inside of the claws of the horses' feet, or you are as much as me on one side of the camel." Then he continued: “I hope that you will be one-fourth of the inhabitants of Paradise.” Thereupon, the Muslims uttered takbir. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued: "I strongly hope that you will be one-third of the heavens." Muslims again brought takbir. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "I hope you will be half of the heavens." The Muslims again recited takbir. Now I do not know whether the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said two-thirds or not. (Musnad: 19055) This hadith is hasan sahih. In another way, Imran b. It was also narrated by Husayn.
3467-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were with the Prophet on a journey. There was a difference in walking between the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and his Companions. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Surah Hajj 1-2. recited the verses aloud. When the Companions heard this, they whipped their mounts and realized that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was about to say something. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), do you know what day it will be like? he commanded. The Companions said: Allah and His Messenger know better. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: It is such a day that Allah will call Adam and tell him to send the share of Hell to Hell. And Adam will say: O my Lord, what is the share of Hell? Nine hundred and ninety-nine out of every thousand who will say Allah will be in Hell, and someone in Paradise. Thereupon, those who were there were so sad that there was not even a trace of smile on their faces. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saw this state of his companions, he said: "Serve and be optimistic. By Allah, in whose hand is Muhammad's soul, you are together with two of the creatures, Gog and Magog. Ravi says: Hearing this, the people's faces laughed and their troubles seemed to go away. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Serve, be optimistic, I swear by Allah, in whose hand is Muhammad's life, that you are like me on one side of a camel, or like two bumps on the inside of a horse's nails." (Musnad: 19055) This hadith is hasan sahih.
3468-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Zubayr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: The only reason why the Ka'ba is called atik is that no tyrant has been able to dominate it, that is, it is a place protected from tyrants. (The word Atik in the 29.33. verse of Hajj Surah) (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith was narrated as mursal through Zuhri.
3469-) Qutayba conveyed a similar hadith from Akil and Zuhri through Lays.
3470-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was expelled from Makkah, Abu Bakr took out their Prophet and they will surely be destroyed. Upon this, Allah revealed the 39th verse of the chapter of Hajj: Surely, Allah has the power to help them.” Thereupon, Abu Bakr said, "I knew for sure that there would be war in the future." (Musnad: 1768) This hadith is hasan. b. Mahdi and others have reported this hadith from Sufyan, A'mesh, Muslim al Batîn, Said b. They narrated from Jubayr as a mursal and did not say "from Ibn Abbas" in his deed. b. Beşşar, from Sufyan, A'meşten, Muslim al Batîn, Said b. They narrated from Jubayr as a mursal, but they did not say "from Ibn Abbas" in their deed.
3471-) Said b. According to a narration from Jubayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was driven out of Makkah, a man said: "They brought out their prophets." Allah revealed the 39th and 40th verses of the chapter of Hajj: War permission was given to the 'mins because of their persecution. Undoubtedly, Allah has the power to help them. Those who were unjustly expelled from their homes simply because they said, "Our Lord is Allah." If Allah had not repelled some people by means of others, then the monasteries, churches, synagogues and mosques in which Allah's name is mentioned a lot would have been destroyed long ago. and surely Allah will help those who help his religion. Surely, Allah is the Most High, the Mighty.” Those who were unjustly expelled from their homes are the prophets and his companions. (Musnad: 1768)
3472-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Abdulkari (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar b. I heard from Khattab that he was saying: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) received revelation, a sound resembling the hum of a bee was heard at the tip of his head. One day, revelation came to him. We waited for a while, then the revelation status was removed from him. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood facing the qibla, raised his hands and said: O Allah, increase the number of us Muslims, do not decrease us, make us honorable, do not humiliate us, do not deprive us, take care of us in good deeds, do not prefer others over us. Make us happy and you will be pleased with us. Then the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) continued: “Ten verses have been revealed to me, and whoever does what they need to do will definitely enter Paradise. Then Surah Mu'minun 1-11. He read the verses: “1) It is certain that those who believe will certainly attain salvation. 2) Those who perform their prayers with humility and sensitivity. 3) Those who turn away from empty and meaningless words and deeds. 4) They perform the Zakat, which must be done for purification, as necessary. 5) And those who protect their honor and chastity from haram and doubtful things. 6) Except for their wives and concubines, they are not condemned for their relations with them. 7) But if anyone wants to go beyond that, these are the ones who cross the line. 8) and those who fulfill their trusts and promises. 9) Those who maintain their prayers by performing them on time and continuously. 10) These are the ones who will inherit. 11) They will inherit Firdevs Paradise and stay there forever.” (Musnad: 218)
3473-) Muhammed b. Eban, through Abdurrezzak Yunus b. From Sulaym, Yunus b. Yazid conveyed a similar hadith to us from Zuhri with the same deed. This hadith is more authentic than the first hadith. Ishaq b. I heard from Mansur that he was saying: Ahmed b. Hanbal and Ali b. al Medîni, İshâk b. From Abdurrezzak through Ibrahim, Yunus b. From Sulaym, Yunus b. They narrated this hadith from Yazid and Zuhri. Those who heard this hadith from Abdurrezzak before, Yunus b. They mention Yazid. Some are Yunus b. They do not mention Yazid. Yunus b. The narration of those who mention Yazid is stronger. Abdurrezzak, on the other hand, is Yunus b. Sometimes he would mention Yazid and sometimes he would not. Yunus is a narration that has not been mentioned.
3474-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), Nadr's daughter Rübeyyi' came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) - his son Haris b. Suraka was martyred in the battle of Badr by a stray arrow- and said to me, tell me about my son Harîs. He said, "If it is good, I will be patient and wait for my reward from Allah." He said, "If he is not in good faith, I will embrace the prayer with all my might." Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Harisa’s mother, there are Paradises within Paradise. Your son, on the other hand, has reached the Paradise of Firdevs-i A'la. Firdevs Paradise is the plateau of other Paradises, the most suitable and convenient place. (Bukhari, Jihad: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3475-) According to a narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the wife of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), she said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about the 60th verse of the chapter of Mu'minun and said: "They are wine. Are they those who drink and steal?” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "No, the daughter of Siddiq." But they are those who fast, perform prayers and give alms, although they fear that it will not be accepted from them. He read the 61st verse of the chapter of Mu'minun, saying that they are those who compete in goodness. (Ibn Mace, Zuhd: 17) This hadith is Abdurrahman b. It was narrated similarly from Said, from Abu Hazim, from Abu Huraira.
3476-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said about the 104th verse of the chapter of Mu’minun: “The fire will burn the skin of their faces, and their upper lip will reach half of their head, and their lower lip will reach half of their head. It will hang down to the navel.” (Musnad: 11409) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3477-) Amr b. According to the narration from his father and grandfather, Shuayb said: There was a man called Ebî Mersed, who carried the captives from Mecca to Medina. There was another prostitute called "Anak" in Mecca, who was a friend of Mersed. Mersed had promised one of the Meccan captives that he would carry him. Mersed explained: I came in a moonlit night and stood in the shadow of one of the walls of Mecca. Anak also came, saw the silhouette of my shadow on the side of the wall, recognized me when he approached me and said, "Are you Mersed?" she asked. I replied: “I am Mercedes”. "Hello welcome, spend the night with us," he said. I said: “O Anak! I said, "Allah has forbidden adultery." Thereupon, Anak shouted: "O people of the oba, this man is abducting your captives." Eight people followed me. I took the road to Handeme, and finally I entered a rock crevice or a cave, and they came and stood by my head. They even urinated there and their urine flowed over my head. But God blinded them from me. They turned and left. So I turned to my man and loaded him, he was a little heavy. I took him to the place called Izhir and there I untied his chains and I was carrying him. It made me very tired. Finally, I reached Medina. Came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), O Messenger of Allah! Can I marry Anak? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) remained silent and did not answer me at all, then the 3rd verse of Surat an-Nur was revealed: "A man who commits adultery desires only women who commit adultery or those who are polytheists and marry them. A woman who commits adultery can only marry adulterous men or polytheists because she desires them. It is forbidden for believers to marry those who commit adultery in this way.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: O Mersed! An adulterous man can only marry an adulterous woman and a polytheist, while an adulterous woman can only marry an adulterous man and a polytheist; "You, don't marry that woman" (Nesai, Nikah: 27; Ebû Dâvûd, Jihâd: 17) This hadith is hasan garib and we know it only in this way.
3478-) Said b. According to a narration from Jubayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: Mus'ab b. During Umayr's governorship of Iraq, I was asked about the husband and wife who lian, whether they should be separated from each other. I didn't know what to answer either. Abdullah b. I went to Ömer's house. When I arrived in Mecca, I asked permission to enter him. I was told that he is taking a lunch break (kaylule). When he heard my voice, he called out from the inside: Jubayr's son, enter, an important job has definitely brought you here. So I went in and caught my eye that he was making a bed from the animal's scimitar and lying down immediately, O Abu Abdurrahman! Will the husband and wife who make a lian break up? said. Abdullah said: "Subhanallah, yes he will leave". The first person to ask about this subject is his son or something. Came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) O Messenger of Allah! said. If one of us sees his wife committing adultery, what do you order him to do? If he speaks, he will have revealed a big issue, and if he is silent, he will have glossed over a big issue. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) kept silent and did not answer him. That person came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) again after that day, and the truth is that I have fallen into the situation I asked you about. Thereupon, Allah revealed verses 6. 7. 8. 9. 7) and in the fifth, the person making this accusation should express that he is satisfied with the curse of Allah if he is a liar. 8) And as for the accused woman, if she witnesses Allah four times that her husband lied, the punishment for this crime will be removed from her. 9) and in the fifth, if her husband is telling the truth, it is expressing that he is pleased with Allah's wrath.” Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) called that man, recited these verses to him, gave him advice, reminded him, and informed him that the worldly torment was lighter than the torment of the hereafter. Man: I swear to God, who sent you with the truth, that I did not lie about this wife. Secondly, he called the woman, preached and reminded her that the worldly torment was much lighter than the hereafter. The woman said: No, I swear by Allah who sent you with the truth, my husband did not tell the truth. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) first started with the man, and the man swore by Allah four times that he was telling the truth, and the fifth time he wished the curse of Allah to be on him if he was one of the liars. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) returned to the woman and she swore four times by Allah that her husband was indeed a liar. In the fifth time, she wished that God's wrath would be upon her if her husband was truthful. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) separated them from one another. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Lian: 17) hadiths were also reported from Suhayl ibn Said. The hadith is hasan authentic.
3479-) According to what is reported from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), Hilal b. In the presence of the prophet Umayya, his wife, Sharik b. He claimed that he had committed adultery with Sahma. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "We ask for evidence on this matter, or know that the penalty for slander is on your back!" Hilal said: "O Messenger of Allah, if one of us sees a man standing over his wife, will he look for evidence?" The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued to say, "We want evidence, otherwise the punishment is on your back." Hilal said: “By Him who sent you with the truth, I am telling the truth. Something will come down about my issue that will save me from punishment…” Thereupon, Surah Nur 6-9. verses of the verse were revealed: “6 As for those who accuse their wives of adultery, but have no witnesses other than themselves, let each of those who accuse this accusation hold Allah four times that they are telling the truth. In the 7th and fifth times, let the person who makes this accusation express that he is satisfied with the curse of Allah if he is a liar. 8 And as for the accused woman, the fact that she witnesses Allah four times that her husband has lied will remove the punishment to be given for this crime. In the 9th and fifth, if her husband is telling the truth, it is expressing that he is pleased with Allah's wrath.” When the revelation to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was finished, he sent a message to Hilal and his wife. Coming on top of that, Crescent made a lian. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was saying, "Indeed, Allah knows that one of you is a liar, do you want to repent now?" Then the woman got up and made a lian, and as for the fifth: “If the husband is one of the truthful ones; God's wrath is upon himself.” The people said: "Allah's wrath will certainly find its way." Ibn Abbas says: Thereupon, the woman paused, lowered her head, and we even thought she would give up the lie she made, but the woman said: "Today, I will not disgrace and disgrace my society." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Look at the child of that woman when she gives birth, if the child has two eyes, wide hips and thick legs; That child, Sharik b. It belongs to Sahma.” When the woman's day came, she gave birth to a child in this way. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If there had not been a decree in Allah's book regarding the issue of lian, we would have had business with that woman.” (Ibn Majah, Talak: 27) This hadith, as it is, was written by Hisham b. Hassan is garib as the narration of Hassan. Abbad b. Mansur narrated this hadith from Ikrima, Ibn Abbas. Ayyub narrated from Ikrima as a mursal and did not include Ibn Abbas in his deed.
3480-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: I was not aware of what was said about me when it was said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up and delivered a sermon about me. In this sermon, he brought Kalima-i shahadah, and after praising Allah as required, he continued his sermon as follows: Now, guide me about some people who accuse my family. I swear I don't know anything bad about my family and I don't think it will happen. They accused a person, I swear I don't think anything bad will happen to him. That person has never entered my house without me. Whatever war I went to, he went out with me. on Sa'd b. Muadh got up and said, O Messenger of Allah! Let me hit their necks. After him, a man from the sons of Hazreç stood up - Hassan b. Thabit's mother was from that person's tribe- and she said: O Muâz, you are wrong, if those people were from the Aws tribe, you would not like to cut their necks off. A bad incident would almost break out between Evs and Khazraj inside the mosque. Aisha: I didn't know about this either, it was the evening of that day, I went out for a reason, there was Mistah's mother next to me, she stumbled and fell and said: "Let the Mistah crawl" I said to her: O mother, are you cursing your own son? The woman fell silent, then her foot stumbled again and said, "Let the Mistah crawl". Are you cursing at your own son too? Said. Susta didn't say anything. When he stumbled for the third time, he said, "Let the Mistah crawl" again. So I scolded him and said: “O Mother! Are you cursing your own son?” I said. He said: "By God, I'm only cursing him for you." And I said: "About what?" Then he opened up to me and told me what had happened. And I: “Did all this really happen?” said. “Yes, by God,” he said. I went home right away, I didn't know why I left, what to do. I went into shock and got malaria. I said to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) send me to my father's house. He sent me with a boy. When I entered our house, I found my mother on the floor of the house. My father was reading the Qur'an on the first floor. My mother: “My daughter, why did you come?” said. I told what was going on and told what was said about me. These issues did not have the same effect on him as they did on me. He said: "My daughter, don't make it such a big deal! By Allah, it is very rare that a man who loves him is not envied and rumored about a beautiful woman who is married and also has clothes. Again, I saw that he was not as affected by these events as I was. “Does my father know about these events?” I asked. “Yes he knows,” he said. “Well, does the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) know this?” said. “Yes he knows,” he said. I couldn't hold back my tears and cried. My father, who was reading the Qur'an upstairs, heard me cry and went downstairs and asked my mother what's wrong. My mother also said: "The things that were said about her reached her ears." Thereupon, my father's eyes filled with tears and said: "O my daughter! You will definitely be back home," he said. So I returned to my house. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to my house and asked my servant some questions about me. The maid also said: "No, by God I don't know any faults about him, the only fault I know is that while he was making bread, the cattle would come and eat its dough or leaven." One of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) scolded him and said to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) the truth, and they talked back and forth. The woman said: "Subhanallah" and said; "By Allah, I know that he is innocent of what the jeweler knows about yellow gold," he said. When the events reached the ears of Safwan, who was spoken to, he also said "subhanallah" and I swear I did not open any woman's dress for any purpose. Aisha says: "This person later became a martyr in the way of Allah." Aisha continued: “My mother and father slept next to me. They did not leave me until the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered me. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) entered me after performing the afternoon prayer. My mother and father surrounded me on my right and left. The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) gave martyrdom and praised Allah as he deserved. Then he said: O Aisha! If you have committed an evil and wronged your soul, turn to Allah and repent. Surely, Allah accepts the repentance of His servants. A woman from the Ansar came and was sitting in front of the door. I said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): Are you not afraid of this woman telling something? The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) advised for a while. I turned to my father, I said answer him. “What can I say?” he replied. I went back to my mother, I said give her an answer, and she replied, "What should I say?" When neither of them answered, I testified, I praised Allah, and after praising him as he deserved, I said: Beware! By God, if I say that I have never done such a thing - Allah is witness to me - this statement does not benefit me in your presence. You've talked a lot about it and it's ingrained in you. If I say that I did this job - Allah knows that I did not do such a job - but you would say that he accepted the incident against himself. I swear I can't find an example that would suit myself and you. However, at this time, I searched for the name Yakup in my mind, but could not extract it. But Yusuf's father Yakub said: Patience is good. I remember him saying, "Allah is expected to help you against all that you have told." Aisha continued as follows: At that moment, revelation was sent to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). We were silent and when the revelation was removed from him, I immediately understood the joy on his face. He was wiping his forehead and saying: "O Aisha, good news, Allah declares that you are innocent." I was very angry at that moment. My mother and father said: "Get up and thank the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)". I said: No, I swear I will not thank him, nor will I thank you; I will only praise God, who has declared that I am innocent. When you heard this slander, you neither denied nor defended me. Aisha said: “As for Zaynab, the daughter of Jahsh, Allah protected her about her religion and spoke only good about me. But his sister, Hamnah, perished among those who perished. The speakers at the event were Mistah, Hassan b. The steadfast and hypocritical Abdulah b. Ubey b. Selül D. Abdullah b. Selül always tinkered with the issue and collected what was said. Among them, Hamne was the one who took the biggest share in the slander. Aisha continued as follows. My father had sworn that he would not benefit Abu Bakr or Mistah in any way. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 22nd verse of Surah An-Nur: “Let not those of you who are good and wealthy swear not to help their relatives, the needy, and those who emigrated in the way of Allah because of their mistakes. and let them not detract from the help they have given, let them forgive and forgive their faults, and take no heed. Be careful! Do you not love and desire that Allah forgives you? Indeed, Allah is Most Forgiving and Most Merciful.” Abu Bakr said, "Yes, by God, O our Lord, we certainly want you to forgive us," and he turned to Mistah to help him, which he had not been doing before. (Bukhari, Maghazi, 27; Muslim, Tawba: 17) This hadith is from Hisham b. The narration of Urwa is hasan sahih garib. Yunus b. Yezîd, Ma'mer and many others derived this hadith from Zuhri, Urve b. Zübeyr, Said b. From Müseyyeb, Alkame b. From Vakkâs el Leysi, Ubeydullah b. Abdullah and Aisha reported this hadith from Hisham b. They narrated it longer and more fully than the narration of Urwa. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3481-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: When the verses declaring my innocence were sent down, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) climbed to the pulpit, explained the situation, and recited the descended verses. When he descended from the pulpit, he ordered two men and a woman, who played a leading role in the slander business, to impose the penalty of slander, and the punishment was applied to them. (Bukhari, Maghazi: 27; Muslim, Tawba: 17) This hadith is hasan garib and only Muhammad b. We know from the narration of Ishaq.
3482-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) "Which is the greatest of sins?" He said, "It is associating partners with Allah who created you." “Then which one?” I said. “It is killing your child in any way because you are afraid that he will eat and consume with you.” “Then which one?” I asked. He said, "You commit adultery with your neighbor's wife." (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan garib.
3483-) Muhammed b. Bundar, Abdurrahman b. From Mansur and A'mesh through Mahdi and Sufyan, from Abu Vâil, from Amr b. They conveyed a similar hadith to us from Şurahbil and Abdullah. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3484-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: Which sin is greater for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? I asked him, and he said: "It is associating partners with Allah even though He created you, killing your child for fear that he will eat your food and consuming it, and committing adultery with your neighbor's wife." Then the 68-69 chapters of Furkan. He read the verses: “And those who, together with Allah, never invoke some false gods, and do not kill a soul, which Allah has made inviolable, and do not commit adultery, except for a legal reason. Because they know that anyone who commits any of these will not only be involved in evil and sin. But on the Day of Resurrection, his punishment will be many folds and he will remain in a low state forever.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) Sufyan's narration from Mansur and A'mesh is more authentic than Wasil's narration. Because he added one person to his deed.
3485-) Muhammed b. Müsenna, Muhammed b. He narrated a similar hadith from Shu'ba, Wasit, Abu Vail and Abdullah through Cafer. Likewise, Shu'ba narrated from Wasit, Abu Vail and Abdullah, and in his deed, Amr b. He did not mention Shurahbil.
3486-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: When the verse 214 of Shuara Sura, "And warn everyone you can reach, starting with your closest relatives and relatives", the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "O Muttalib! Safiye, daughter of Muhammad, O sons of Abdulmutalib… There is nothing I can do for you against Allah, but you can take as much of my property as you want.” (Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. Likewise, Vekî' and others Hisham b. From Urve and his father and Aisha, Muhammad b. They narrated it like the narration of Abdurrahman et Tufavi. da Hisham b. He narrated from Urwa, his father and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) as a mursal, but they did not mention “Aisha” in his deed. Hadith was also narrated from Ali and Ibn Abbas.
3487-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the 214th verse of Shuara is revealed; The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gathered the Quraysh and made special and public calls and said: O people of Quraysh, protect yourselves from the fire, because I have no power to do you any harm or benefit, O people of the sons of Abdulmanaf, protect yourself from the fire, you guys. I have no power to neither benefit nor harm. O people of the sons of Qusay, protect yourselves from the fire of Hell, I have no power to harm or benefit you. Abdulmuttalib sons! Protect yourselves from the fire; I have no power to do you any good or harm. O Fatima, daughter of Muhammad, protect yourself from the fire of Hell, I have no means to benefit or harm you. I only have kinship for you, and I will do what is necessary. (Bukhari, Wasaya: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. This hadith was written only by Musa b. He is known for Talha's narration.
3488-) Ali b. Hucr, Şuayb b. Through Safwan, Abdulmalik b. Umair, from Musa b. Talha is narrated from Abu Huraira in a similar way.
3489-) According to what is reported from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the 214th verse of Suara Sura was revealed, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) put two fingers in his two ears. Raising his voice, he said: “O sons of Abdumenaf, catch up!” he cried. (Tirmidhi has narrated it.) This hadith, as it is, is strange as the narration of Abu Musa. They narrated from Zuhayr as a mursal. They did not mention Abu Musa in their script, which is more authentic. This hadith was narrated by Muhammad b. I reminded Ismail, but Abu Musa did not know it as a hadith.
3490-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: In the 87th verse of Surah An-Naml: When the creature called Dabbat-ul Arz appears close to the Day of Judgment, it will be accompanied by the seal of Solomon and the staff of Moses. will also be found. The face of the believer will be bright and the nose of the unbeliever will be sealed with a seal. That's why those who live in a place will get to know each other and will be able to say that this is a believer and this is an unbeliever. (Bukhari, Science: 27; Ibn Fitan: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. Another hadith about Dabbat-ul Arz was narrated from Hurayra. Abu Umama and Huzeyfe b. A hadith was narrated from Usayd.
3491-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to his uncle: “Say Lailahe illallah that I will be a witness for you on the Day of Judgment.” He said: "If Quraysh did not reproach me by saying that he believed because of his indecision, I would have said this word and made you smile." Thereupon, Allah revealed the 56th verse of the chapter of al-Qasas: “The truth is that you cannot direct your loved one to the right path. But it is Allah Who directs those who want to turn to the straight path as He wills, and He is the One Who knows better who will reach the right path.” (Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was reported by Yazid b. We know with the narration of Kaysan.
3492-) Simak b. According to a narration from Harb (radiyallahu anh), he said: Mus'ab b. I heard from Sa'd. He was narrating from his father from his father: He said that four verses were sent down about me and he explained as follows: Sa'd said that four verses were sent down about me and he explained as follows: Sa'd's mother said when her son became a Muslim: didn't he order? Then I will not eat until I die or you will turn from your religion.” Sa'd said: They would open their mouths to feed him and force him to eat something. Thereupon, the 8th verse of Ankebut was revealed: “We ordered man to treat his parents well as one of his good deeds; but nevertheless, if they want you to associate anything with me blindly, do not follow them. Because you will all come back to me in the end, and then I will reveal to you all that you have done while you were alive, good and bad.” (Muslim, Jihad: 27; Nesai, Jihad: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3493-) According to the narration from Umm Hani (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “…you will do all kinds of indecency in your meetings, right?…” Regarding the 29th verse of Surah Ankabut: would throw them and make fun of them.” (Musnad: 25656) This hadith is hasan. This hadith was only reported by Hatim b. We know it from the narration of Ebi Sağîre from Simâk.
3494-) Ahmed b. Abde ed Dabbi, Süleyman b. Through Ahzar, Hatim b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abu Sahir with this deed.
3495-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked Abu Bakr to extend the time by being a little more cautious about a dispute and bets he had with the Quraysh, and the word "Bıd" was used out of three. He said it includes the period up to nine. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith narrated by Ibn Abbas from Ubeydullah and Zuhri is strange.
3496-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: It was the day of Badr, and the Greeks were victorious over the Iranians, this news pleased the believers and they were happy. Thereupon, Surah Rum 1-4. verses were revealed: “1) Elif, Lam, Mim. 2) Byzantine Greeks were defeated. 3) The Byzantine army was defeated near the homeland of the Arabs. But after their defeat, they will regain the upper hand. 4) In a few years; because the authority to decide ultimately belongs to Allah. On that day the believers will rejoice.” They were happy that the Greeks were victorious over the Iranians. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Nasr b. Ali read this verse as "Galebet-ir Rum".
3497-) Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), Surah Rum 1-3. He read about the verses as "ghalabet" and "gulibet". polytheists; They wanted the Iranians to defeat the Greeks. Because they were idol worshipers like them. Muslims, on the other hand, wanted the Greeks to be victorious over the Iranians, since they were people of the Book. The polytheists told this to Abu Bakr. Abu Bakr also told the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the Messenger of Allah said that the Greeks will definitely be victorious. Abu Bakr explained the words of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to the polytheists. Thereupon, the polytheists said, appoint a time between you and us, if we win the bet, this and that many camels will be ours, if you win the bet, this and that many camels will be yours. Abu Bakr determined the term as five years. But the Greeks were not victorious. They explained the situation to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: If you could extend this period up to ten years. Abu Said says: "Bıd'ı" means lower than him. Ibn Abbas says: After that, the Greeks were victorious. Here is Allah's Rule 1-5. verses were revealed because of this. Sufyan says: I heard that the Greeks were victorious over the Iranians on the day of Badr. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. This hadith can only be reported by Sufyan from Habib b. We know it from the narration of Abu Amre.
3498-) Niyar b. According to the narration from Mükrem al-Aslemî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “1) Elif, Lam, Mim. 2) Byzantine Greeks were defeated. 3) The Byzantine army was defeated near the homeland of the Arabs. But after their defeat, they will regain the upper hand. 4) In a few years; because the authority to decide ultimately belongs to Allah. On that day the believers will rejoice.” Rum surah 1-4. When the verses of the verses were revealed, the Iranians had defeated the Greeks in the period when these verses were revealed. The Muslims, on the other hand, wanted the Greeks to be victorious over the Iranians. Because they themselves and they were people of the book. That's why Allah, in the chapter of Rum 4-5. revealed his verses: “4) …On that day the believers will rejoice. 5) to Allah's help; because He helps whomever He wills. He is strong, no power can reach his power, He is very merciful and merciful.” They wanted the Iranians to be victorious. Because the Iranians in Quraysh were neither people of the book nor believed in the resurrection after death. When Allah revealed these verses, Abu Bakr appeared around Mecca in Surah Rum 1-4. cried out his verses with all his might. Some people from the Quraysh are telling Abu Bakr that this matter is between you and us, your man Mohammed is announcing that the Greeks will defeat the Iranians in a few years. Can we talk to you about this? Abu Bakr said: "Yes". This was before betting was made illegal. Abu Bakr and the polytheists made a bet and agreed on a certain number. Then to Abu Bakr; How many years will you designate a few words of “Bıd”? They said, 'You can set an average time between us and you. Then they determined the period as six years. These six years passed without the Greeks being victorious, and the polytheists took Abu Bakr's hostage. When the seventh year entered, the Greeks were victorious against the Persians. Muslims condemned Abu Bakr's appointment of six years. Because God; He commanded the "bid'i" as a time unit from three to nine. Many people had become Muslims at that time. (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is from Niyar b. As the narration of Mukrem, it is authentic hasan garib. Only Abdurrahman b. We know it from the narration of Abu'z Zinad.
3499-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Do not buy and sell singer women, do not teach them to sing. There is no good in business with them, their money is haram. Here is the 6th verse of the chapter of Luqman, which was revealed for such matters: "There are some people who, without relying on true knowledge, buy empty words such as fairy tales and stories and use the Qur'an to make fun of them, in order to mislead people from the way of Allah and make fun of Him. they try to deceive them with these tales; For such is a humiliating chastisement.” (Ibn Majah, Trade: 27) This hadith is strange. He narrated this hadith to us only from Abu Umama as the narration of Qasim. Kasim is a reliable person. Ali b. It is noted that Yazid was weak in the hadith. I heard from Muhammad saying: Qasim is a trusted person. Ali b. Yazid is considered weak.
3500-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): “They are those who get up at night and beg their Lord in fear and hope…” He said about the 16th verse of Surah Sajda: "This verse was revealed about waiting for the night prayer." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih. But this is how we know it.
3501-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), Allah said: “I have prepared blessings for my righteous servants that no eye has seen, no ear has heard and no one has ever thought of.” The confirmation of this in Allah's book is the 17th verse of Surah Sajda. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Jannat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3502-) According to the narration from Sha'bi (radiyallahu anh), he said: Mughira b. Shu'ba was quoting the following from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) as merfu on the pulpit. Moses asked his Lord and said, O Lord. Who is the lowest of the inhabitants of Paradise? Allah said: "He is a man who will come to Paradise after all the inhabitants of Paradise enter Paradise, and he will be asked to enter, and he will say: "How can I enter, everyone has occupied every place and took what they will receive". Then it will be said to him: “Will you consent to have everything that belongs to a king of the worlds?” He will say, “Yes, O Lord, I am satisfied with this”, and then he will be told: “You will have this and its multiples”, and he will say: “I accept it, O Lord”. Again, it will be said to him that all these and ten times all of them are yours. He will say, "O Lord, I am satisfied, okay." In the end, it will be said to him: "You will have everything that you desire, everything that your eye pleases". (Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. Some of them have narrated this hadith from Sha'bi without compromising Mughira. Merfu is more authentic.
3503-) Qabus b. Abu Zabyan (radiy-Allâhu anh) quoted from his father and said: We asked Ibn Abbas about the 4th verse of the chapter of Ahzab, what do you want to say there? Something happened to him and he was wrong in his prayer, so the hypocrites who prayed with him said: Don't you see that he has two hearts? one heart with you, one heart with them. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 4th verse of Surah Ahzab: "Allah has not created two hearts in one body for anyone, and He has never made your wives, whom you have sworn to divorce by making them look like their mothers, your mothers, nor has He considered your adopted children as your true children. These are just dry words that come to your mouth. However, Allah always speaks the truth and guides you to the right path.” (Musnad: 2285)
3504-) Abd b. Humayd, Ahmed b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Zuher through Yunus. This hadith is hasan.
3505-) According to the narration from Enes (radiyallahu anh), he said: My uncle Enes b. Nadr - I bear his name - did not participate in the Battle of Badr with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), it was very difficult for him, but he said: "I could not be with him in the first battle of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). But if there is another war, of course everyone will see what I will do in that war," he said, and he hesitated to speak otherwise. The next year, he participated in the Battle of Uhud with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). At that time Sa'd b. He met Muâz and said: "O Abu Amr, where to go?" The room said: "Towards the smell of heaven..." He said that he finds that smell next to Uhud. He fought and was eventually martyred. More than eighty wounds were found on his body, including sword, arrow, and spear wounds. Nadr's daughter Rübeyyi said: "I could only recognize my brother from the tips of his fingers". The 23rd verse of the chapter of Ahzab was revealed on this event: "There are such people among the believers that they kept their promise to Allah. Some of them fulfilled their vows and became martyrs, and some are waiting for martyrdom. They did not change their promise like the hypocrites.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Imara: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3506-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: His uncle did not participate in the Battle of Badr and said: Everyone will see what I would do if the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had me in a battle against the polytheists. When he saw that the Muslims in the Battle of Uhud were defeated for a short time, he said: Don't hold me responsible for this defeat caused by the polytheists. At that time Sa'd b. Muâz met him and said: "O brother, whatever you do, I am with you, but I cannot do what you did." Later, more than eighty wounds were found on his body as sword, arrow and spear wounds. The 23rd verse of the chapter of Ahzab was revealed about such people: “There are some believers who have kept their promise to Allah. Some of them fulfilled their vows and became martyrs, and some are waiting for martyrdom. They did not change their promise like the hypocrites.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Imara: 17) He says, "This verse is about such martyrs." This hadith is hasan authentic. uncle's name: Enes b. It is Nadr.
3507-) Musa b. According to the narration from Talha (radiyallahu anh), he said: I went to Muawiya; “Shall I give you a good news?” he said. I said yes, too. He said: "Talha is one of those who will fulfill his vow and be a martyr." (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is strange. But this is how we know it. This hadith was written by Musa b. It is narrated from his father through Talha.
3508-) According to the narration from Talha (radiyallahu anh); The Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to a bedouin: "Who are the people who will fulfill their vows and become martyrs?" They did not dare to ask the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), they would count him and avoid him. Upon this, A'rabî asked the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not answer. He asked again and again he did not answer. Then I looked from the door of the mosque wearing a green dress. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saw me, he said: "Where is the one who asks about those who will fulfill their vows and become martyrs?" he commanded. Arabi: “I am here, O Messenger of Allah!” said. He said, "Here is the person who looks at them." (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. Yunus b. We know from the narration of Bukayr.
3509-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was ordered to release his wives in this world and the hereafter, he started from me and said: “O Aisha, I will remind you of a matter; you may not be in a hurry to answer this? You can also consult your parents and get their opinions.” Aisha continued as follows: My parents knew that they would not order me to leave him. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: Surah Ahzab 28-29. He read the verses: “O Prophet! Say to your wives: “If you want the life of this world and its adornment, let me pay you the price of divorce and release you in goodness. But if you want Allah, His Messenger and the beauties of the Hereafter, know that Allah has prepared a great reward for those of you who act and behave well.” Then I will consult my parents about this. I want Allah, the home of the hereafter and his prophet. All the families of the prophets did just as I did. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Talak: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith was also narrated from Zuhri, Urwa and Aisha.
3510-) Omar b. According to the narration from Ebî Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The 33rd verse of Surah Ahzab: “… O people of the Prophet's household! Allah wants to remove all kinds of ugliness and pollution from you and to make you immaculate.” When the verse was revealed to the Prophet in Umm Salama's house, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) called Fatima, Hasan and Husayn and covered them with a cloth. Ali was on his back, and he covered it with his veil and said: "My God, these are my household. Remove their sins from them and make them clean.” Umm Salama: “O Prophet of Allah! Am I with them too?” He said, "You stay in your place, you are already in good." (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is from Ata and Amr b. It is garib as narrated from Abi Salama.
3511-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went for the morning prayer, he would stop by Fatima's door for about six months and said: "O people of the house, come on for the prayer!" says. He used to recite the last part of the 33rd verse of Surah Ahzab. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Hammad b. We know from the Salama narration. In this regard, Ebû'l Hamra, Ma'kil b. Hadith was also narrated from Yasar and Umm Salama.
3512-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: If the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) were to hide something from the revelation, he would definitely have hidden the 37th verse of the chapter of Ahzab. Then, when the Prophet married the wife of his adopted son, Allah revealed the 40th verse of Surah Ahzab. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) adopted Zayd when he was a child and stayed with him until he reached the age of old. He was called Zayd, son of Muhammad. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 5th verse of Surah Ahzab. He is a friend of so-and-so. It is more appropriate in the sight of Allah to say that so-and-so is the brother of so-and-so. (Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is strange.
3513-) This hadith was written by Davud b. Narrated by Ebî Hind, Şabî, Mesrûk and Aisha, he said: If the prophet were to hide something from the revelation, Ahzab would have hidden verse 37. This hadith was narrated as short as here, but not as long as in the first narration. Likewise, Abdullah b. Vazih al-Kufî, Abdullah b. Through Idris, Davud b. Abu Hind narrated this hadith to us.
3514-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “If the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) were to hide something from the revelation, he would surely have hidden the 37th verse of the chapter of Ahzab.” (Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3515-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: We used to call Zayd, son of Harisa, as Zayd, son of Muhammad. Finally, the 5th verse of Surah Ahzab was revealed: “As for the adopted children, call them by the names of their real fathers. This is a more just behavior in the sight of Allah. If you don't know who their father is, consider them as your religious brothers and friends. As in all matters, there is no sin on you in what you do wrong in these matters. The most important thing is that there is sin in what you do with your hearts. Indeed, Allah is Most Forgiving and Most Merciful.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3516-) According to the narration from Amir al-Sha'bi (radiyallahu anh), he said about the 40th verse of Surah Ahzab: "His son will not live to reach puberty." (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3517-) It was narrated from Umm Imara al Ansariyya (radiyallahu anha). He came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said, "I see everything for men in the Qur'an, I do not see women being mentioned with anything." The 35th verse of Surah Ahzab was revealed: “The truth is, all men and women who have surrendered to Allah, all men and women who believe, men and women who have devoted themselves to worship and obedience, men and women who are just and sincere in their intentions and actions. There are men and women who endure adversity, men and women who fear Allah with sincere reverence, men and women who give alms, men and women who fast, men and women who keep their chastity and chastity, men and women who remember Allah much. either; Allah has prepared for them forgiveness and a great reward.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. It is known only in this form.
3518-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the 37th verse of the Surah Ahzab about Zaynab, the daughter of Jahsh, was revealed, Zayd came complaining and was upset about the divorce. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to say to him, "Do not abandon your wife, pay attention to your duty to Allah, yourself and other people." (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Friday: 17) This hadith is authentic.
3519-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “… But when Zayd ended his relationship with that woman, we got him married to you…” was revealed, Zaynab became angry with the other wives of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). He would boast and say: “Your own families got you married. And Allah married me above the seven heavens.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Friday: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3520-) According to the narration from Umm Hani bint Abu Talib (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) became my wife. I apologized to him and he accepted my apology. Then Allah revealed the 50th verse of Surah Ahzab: “O Prophet! We; your wives, whose dowries you have given, from prisoners of war, along with the goods that Allah has given you as booty; We have also made lawful for you the concubines that you possessed. and We have made lawful for you the daughters of your uncles and aunts, and the daughters of your uncles and aunts, who migrated to Medina with you. Also, we have made the woman who donated herself to the prophet without a mahr and whom the prophet wanted to take her permissible, only for you, not for other believers. We also told them what they should do regarding their wives and those under their right hands, so that there would be no hardship on you and you would not be in distress or difficulty. Surely, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.” I was not halal for him because I had not migrated. I was one of those who converted to Islam during the conquest of Mecca. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic. We only know it as Suddi's narration.
3521-) Shahr b. According to a narration from Hawshab (radiy-Allâhu anh), Ibn Abbas said: It was forbidden to marry other women other than those who believed in the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and migrated. Thereupon, the 52nd verse of the chapter of Ahzab was revealed: “O Prophet! Apart from these, it is no longer lawful for you to marry other women. Even if you like the beauty of one of them, it is not lawful for you to exchange it with other wives. Except for legally owned concubines. God sees and watches over everything.” Allah has made permissible the believing concubines and the woman who donated herself to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). He also made women of any religion other than Islam haram. Then he said: "... Whoever refuses to believe in Allah, all his deeds will be in vain, and in the Hereafter he will be among the losers." He read it and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: Ahzab recited the 50th verse: "O Prophet! We; your wives, whose dowries you have given, from prisoners of war, along with the goods that Allah has given you as booty; We have also made lawful for you the concubines that you possessed. and We have made lawful for you the daughters of your uncles and aunts, and the daughters of your uncles and aunts, who migrated to Medina with you. Also, we have made the woman who donated herself to the prophet without a mahr and whom the prophet wanted to take her permissible, only for you, not for other believers. We also told them what they should do regarding their wives and those under their right hands, so that there would be no hardship on you and you would not be in distress or difficulty. Surely, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.” He made all kinds of women other than women haram. (Musnad: 2773) This hadith is hasan. Only Abdulhamid b. We know from the narration of Bahram. Ahmed b. I heard Hasan say: Ahmad b. Hanbal said: Abdulhamid b. Bahram's, Şehr b. His narration from Hawsheb is harmless.
3522-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "All women were made lawful to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) except those who were mahram before his death." (Nesai, Nikah: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3523-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I was with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came to the door of the woman he was marrying and saw that some of the guests were still with him, so he went and did some work, so he lingered for a while, then he came back and some people were still standing next to him. He went in, then lowered a curtain between himself and me. Then I told this to Abu Talha, I said, Abu Talha: If it is as you say, a verse will definitely come down on this subject. Then the Hijab verse was revealed. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Nikah: 17) This hadith is strange in its form.
3524-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) got married and had a wedding. For this reason, my mother Umm Sulaym prepared the "Hays" dish made from dates, curd and oil and put it on a plate. O Anas, take it to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and say to him: "My mother sent this to you. Greetings to you, this meal is a little short.” I took the food to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'Leave him there, then call so-and-so and all the people you meet by giving the names of some people. So I called the people whose names he gave and the people I met. I asked Enes how many were they and he said there were about three hundred people. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to me: Bring Enes Kase. They entered the sofa and the cell was full. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Let circles of ten people be formed and everyone eat in front of them." Everyone ate until they were full, a group came out and a group came in. All seven Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “O Enes, remove the bowl. I don't know if it was more when I put it away or if it was more when I removed it. Some of the guests sat in the house of the prophet and chatted. He was sitting in the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). His family, however, turned their faces towards the wall. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) these behaviors were heavy. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came out, greeted his other wives and came back. When they saw the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) returning, they realized that they were upsetting him, and they loaded towards the door and left. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came and lowered the curtain in the middle and made a wedding with his family. I was sitting in the cell. After staying for a short time, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to me, and then the 53rd verse of the chapter of Ahzab was revealed: “O you who believe! Do not enter the houses of the prophet unless permitted, and when you are invited to eat, do not go early and wait for it to be prepared. When you are called, enter at the most appropriate time, leave immediately after eating, do not talk, this situation upset the Prophet, but he was ashamed to tell you this. But Allah does not hesitate to teach you the truth. When you want or ask something from the wives of the Prophet, ask behind the scenes and ask. This is a pure act that removes temptation and ill-conceived notions for both your hearts and theirs. It is never lawful for you to hurt the prophet of Allah and marry his wives after him. Because that is a great sin in the sight of Allah.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited these verses to the Muslims. Quoting from Anas, he said: I am the closest to the time of the descent of these verses. After that, the wives of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) closed down and began to stay away from strangers. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Nikah: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. He is the son of Osman. He is called Ibn Dinar. He is also known as Abu Osman al-Basri. He is a reliable person next to hadith scholars. Yunus b. Ubayd, Shu'be and Hammad b. Zayd narrated hadith.
3525-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) married one of his wives. He had sent me to invite people to a wedding dinner. When they had eaten and left, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) pretended to walk to Aisha's room, two people were still sitting, and came back. Those two people got up and left, then Allah revealed the 53rd verse of Surah Ahzab. This hadith is longer than here. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Nikah: 17) This hadith is hasan garib as the narration of the Beyan. Thabit narrated this hadith from Enes in a longer time.
3526-) According to the narration from Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to us. We are Sa'd b. We were sitting next to Ubade. Beşîr b. Sa'd said to our Prophet: "Allah has ordered us to send blessings on you, how can we send blessings on you now?" We wished that the Prophet had not asked this question. Then the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Say: “O Allah, have mercy on Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and his descendants and believing relatives, Ibrahim (alaihis-salâm) and his offspring. and treat it like you treat it nicely. As you blessed Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) with his ancestry and his believing relatives, and blessed the world, you are truly worthy of praise and the glory of honor.” This is Salat, and salutation is as you know it. (Muslim, Salat: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 17) Ali, Abu Humeyd, Ka'b b. Ucre, Talha b. Ubeydullah, Ebû Said, Zeyd b. Hadiths were also narrated from Harice (also called Harida) and Burayda. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3527-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Moses (peace be upon him) was very shy and dreamy. Because of his life, nothing could be seen, not even his skin. The Israelites would torment him because of this, and they would say: “The only reason why it is covered like this is either because of a skin disease on his skin or because of a groin slit disease or some other disease.” God wanted to clear Moses of what they said. One day, Moses was alone, and he washed his clothes on a stone. When he finished washing, he went to the stone to get his clothes, but the stone took his clothes and started walking. Moses took his staff and fell behind the stone, O stone! Give me my dress, O stone, give me my dress! Finally, he arrived next to a community of Israelites in this state, and they saw Moses naked and as the most beautiful of human beings in terms of creation. Thus, Allah cleared Him of what they were saying. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: The stone stopped, and Moses took his robe and put it on. He started hitting the stone with his wand. By Allah, there are three, four and five scars with that stone due to the blows of Moses' staff. This is the meaning of the word Allah said in the 69th verse of the chapter of Ahzab: “O you who believe! Do not be like the Children of Israel who persecuted Moses. Remember that Allah cleared him of the allegations they made against him. Because he was very valuable in the sight of Allah, had great honor and dignity.” (Bukhari, Gusul: 27; Muslim, Hayz: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. It was narrated from Abu Huraira in a different way. A hadith has also been narrated from Anas (radiyallahu anh) on this subject.
3528-) Ferve b. According to a narration from Museyk al-Muradi (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and O Messenger of Allah! Can I fight with those who turn to Islam against those who turn away from Islam? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave me permission to fight against them and appointed me commander. What did Gutayfi do when I left him? He asked about me and was informed that I was moving. He immediately sent a man after me and turned me away. I came to him and he was with his companions. He said: Invite your people to Islam and accept their Muslims from among them. Whoever does not become a Muslim, do not rush until he gives you a new order… The verses about Saba were revealed later. Thereupon, a man said: O Messenger of Allah! What is 'sebe'? A country or a woman? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Sheba' is neither a country nor a woman... But she is a man with ten Arab children. Six of these children landed around Yemen and four of them settled in Damascus. Those who descend to Damascus are Lahm, Leprosy, Gassan and Amile. Those who landed in Yemen are Ezd, Ashari, Himyer, Muzhich, Enmar and Kindelis. A man, O Messenger of Allah! Who are Enmar? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: They are Has'am and Bacile. Likewise, this hadith was also narrated from Ibn Abbas. (Abu Dawud, Huruf: 27) This hadith is hasan garib.
3529-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When Allah decrees something in the sky, the angels flap their wings in obedience to his orders, and the sound of those wings is like the sound of a chain on a hard stone. When fear and anxiety lifted from their hearts: What did your Lord say? They ask each other and say: "How great is He that is true and true" (Surah Saba' 23rd verse) The devils piled up on top of each other to snatch something from Allah's words. (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3530-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was sitting with a few people, a falling star occurred and the sky brightened. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): What would you say when you see such a thing in the period of ignorance? She asked. Companions: We used to say that a great man would be born or a great man would die… The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: This star is not cast for the birth or death of anyone, however, when our Almighty and Exalted Lord decides a matter, the angels carrying the throne are sent to Allah. They glorify Allah, and then those who come after them glorify Allah, the people of the sky. Then the rosary reaches up to this sky, then the people of the sixth sky ask the people of the seventh sky and they inform them. In the meantime, the devils rise above each other to steal their ears and rise to the sky, whereupon Allah throws these falling stars on them. Those devils convey some of the news they can get with this ear theft to people like poets and seers who are their friends in the world. . But they change this news and make some additions. (Muslim, Salam: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3531-) This hadith is from Zuhri, Ali b. It has been narrated from Husayn, Ibn Abbas and some people from the Ansar: They narrated a similar hadith in terms of meaning by saying, "We were with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)...". Likewise, Huseyn b. Hureys, Velid b. They have transmitted this hadith to us from Muslim and Awzai.
3532-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, “Then we left the book to those whom we chose from among our servants, then there are some of them who live outside the purpose of their creation, and there are some of them who act in the middle way. And there are some of them who, by Allah's leave, excel in good deeds, which is the greatest virtue.” He said about the 32nd verse of Surah Fatir: They are all at the same level and they are all in Paradise. (Musnad: 11321) This hadith is garib and we only know it as such.
3533-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: They were in a remote area of Medina and wanted to move to a place close to the mosque. Then, the 12th verse of Yasin Surah was revealed: “We, not others, raise the dead, and we will record all the deeds they did for the future and all the good and bad traces they left behind. Because we write and determine the clear record of everything in a main book.” The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: “The footprints you take while you are going to the mosque are also recorded. Therefore, do not move near the mosque.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as the narration of As-Sawri. Abu Sufyan is Tarif-us Sa'di.
3534-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh), he said: I entered the mosque when the sun was setting. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was sitting and said to me: “O Abu Dharr! Do you know where that sun is going?" he commanded. I said, 'Allah and His Messenger know better. They said: He goes, asks permission to prostrate, and he is allowed. It is as if one day it will be said to be born from where you came from, and the room will rise from where it sets. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) then recited the 38th verse of Yasin sura: “And in the sun is a sign and a sign for them. It also flows in an orbit of its own. This is the result of the will of Allah, the All-Powerful and All-Knowing.” This is the stabilization of the sun. Abu Dharr said: Abdullah b. This is the way Mas'ud reads. (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3535-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When a caller invites something, it will be stopped on the Day of Judgment and he will not leave the person, even if someone invites someone to something different.” Then the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said in Surah Saffat 24-25. He read the verse: “Arrest them, stop them. No doubt they will be questioned.” “What happened to you that you don't help each other?” (Dârimî, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is strange.
3536-) Ubey b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about the 147th verse of Surah Saffat: “After this incident, we sent Yunus to his tribe where he had fled. Their population at that time was a hundred thousand or more.” The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Twenty thousand more than one hundred thousand". (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib.
3537-) According to the narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), verse 77 of the chapter of Saffat: “After destroying his people with the flood, We made the descendants of Noah a society that remained on earth and proliferated from him. ” About they are derived from Ham, Sam and Japheth. (Tirmidhi narrated.) They are also called Yâfit, Yafis and Yefis. This hadith is hasan garib, and this hadith was transmitted only by Said b. We know from the narration of Bashir.
3538-) According to the narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Sam, the father of the Arabs “Ham”, the father of the Abyssinians “Yafis” is the father of the Greeks. (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3539-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abu Talib was sick. Quraysh came to visit him. The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) also came to visit his uncle. There was a seat for one person next to Abu Talib. Abu Jahl got up and tried to prevent the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) from sitting there. Then they complained about the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) to Abu Talib. To Abu Talib Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) What do you want from your nation, son of my brother? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I want a word from them that all Arabs will submit to them, and the Persians will pay themselves the jizya. Abu Talib: "A word?" she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said "One word" and continued as follows: "O uncle, say la ilaha illallah". Thereupon, they all said at once: "We have not heard this in any of the previous religions, this is nothing but a fabrication." (The 7th verse of the chapter of Sa'd) the Qur'an was sent down about them (verses 1 to 6 of the chapter of Sa'd) (Musnad: 1904) This hadith is hasan.
3540-) Yahya b. Said narrated a similar hadith from Sufyan and A'mash. Yahya b. Imara, through Bundar Yahya b. He narrated a similar hadith from Said from Sufyan and from Amesh.
3541-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: My Lord, the Almighty, appeared to me in the most beautiful form tonight (Ibn Abbas said: In the realm of sleep) and O Muhammad, the great and advanced Do you know what the coming angels are arguing about? I said no too. Then he put his hand between my shoulders -or on my chest- and I felt the coldness of those two hands between my shoulder blades or on my chest. Then I knew all that was in the heavens and on earth. Again, O Mohammed! Do you know what the great and prominent group of angels are arguing about? I said yes, too. About the expiation… The expiation means staying in the mosque after the prayer, walking to the congregation in the mosque on foot, and washing the ablution organs thoroughly even in all kinds of difficulties and cold. Whoever does this, lives with goodness, dies with good, and gets rid of all kinds of mistakes and sins and becomes as pure as the day he was born from his mother. Then he said: O Muhammad! When you pray, pray as follows: O Allah, I ask You to do good deeds, avoid evil, and love the poor. When you send evil to your servants, keep me away from those evils and take me with you… The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) continued his words as follows: The degrees are to spread the greetings, to feed them, and to pray at night while people are asleep. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) In this hadith, another person is added between Abu Qilabe and Ibn Abbas. Qatada narrated this hadith from Abu Qalabe, Khalid b. It was narrated from Lejlac and Ibn Abbas.
3542-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: My Lord appeared to me in the most beautiful way and said: "O Muhammad!" said. I said, "O Lord, I am at your command." He said: “What are the great and prominent angels arguing about?” And I said: "I don't know, O Lord". “He put his hand between my two shovels, I felt the coldness of both hands between my breasts, then I knew everything between east and west, O Muhammad! He commanded. I said, "Here, my Lord, I am at your service." He said: "What are the great and prominent angels arguing about?" “About degrees and kaffarah,” I said; Taking steps to join the congregation in the masjid, washing the ablution organs thoroughly even in times of difficulties and troubles, and waiting for the next prayer after one prayer. Whoever continues these things will live with goodness and die with goodness, and will be like the day he was born from his mother after being cleansed of his sins. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. In this regard, Muâz b. Cebel, Abdurrahman b. A hadith was also narrated from Aisha. hadith Muâz b. It was quoted by Cebel at length and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I started to sleep, I fell asleep, I fell asleep. I saw my Lord in the best way. What are the big and prominent angels arguing about? He commanded.
3543-) Muâz b. According to a narration from Cebel (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was so late for a morning prayer that the sun was almost setting. Then he came out quickly and the iqama was brought for his prayer. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) led the prayer slightly. When he saluted, he said to stay as you are in the ranks with his loud voice, and turning to us he said: "I will tell you what was the reason that delayed me to this morning prayer. I got up at night and performed ablutions and prayed as much as necessary. I saw. O Muhammad said. I said: O my Lord, I am at your command. He said: What are the great and prominent angels arguing about? And I said: "I don't know, O Lord". He repeated this three times. Then he put his palm between my two oars and I felt the coolness of both hands between my breasts. Everything appeared to me and I knew everything. O Mohammed! He commanded. I said, "Here, my Lord, I am at your service." He said: "What are the great and prominent angels arguing about?" I said: "About redemption". "What are they?" he commanded. I said: "To increase the steps towards good deeds, to sit in mosques after prayers, to wash the ablution organs thoroughly in the face of all kinds of difficulties." “Then on what subjects?” he said. “To feed, to speak softly, to pray at night while people are sleeping. Thereupon he said: "Ask whatever you wish from me". I prayed as follows: “O Allah, I ask You to do good deeds, to avoid evil, to love the poor, and to forgive me and spare me. If you are going to send a fitna to a society, make me die without causing it. Grant me to love you, to love those who love you, and to love every deed that brings you closer to your love.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "What is said is true and true, take it as a lesson for yourself and learn it." (Musnad: 21093) This hadith is hasan authentic. Muhammed b. I asked Ismail about this hadith; He said: This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith is Walid b. Muslim, Abdurrahman b. Yazidb. It is more authentic than the narration from Jabir. Khalid b. Leclac, Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Aish al-Hadrami, he said: He said he heard it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and he quoted this hadith exactly. This narration is not reserved. Similarly, in the hadith of Walid, Abdurrahman b. Narrated from Âish, he said: I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)… b. Bekr, Abdurrahman b. Yazid b. This hadith from Jabir was reported by Abdurrahman b. He narrated from Âish. This narration is more authentic. Abdurrahman b. Âish did not hear any hadith from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam).
3544-) It was narrated from Zubayr (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: When the 31st verse of Surah Zümer was revealed, Zubayr said: After what happened between us in the world, will it be repeated that we are suing each other? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said yes. Thereupon, Zubayr said: "Then the job is very heavy at that time." (Musnad: 1321) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3545-) Asma bint Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anha) said, according to a narration: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): He was reciting the 53rd verse of Surah Zumar: “Say: Allah says: my transcendent servants! Do not despair of Allah's mercy, Allah forgives all your sins, no doubt He is Forgiving and Merciful." (Musnad: 26288) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith is only reported by Sabit, Shahr b. We know from Havşeb's narration. city b. Hawsheb narrates to Umm Salama al-Ansariyya. Umm Salama el Ansariyya is Esma bint Yazid.
3546-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: A Jew came to the prophet and said: "O Muhammad! The owner of the property commands me, holding the heavens with one finger, the mountains with one finger, the earth with one finger, and all other creatures with one finger. Did he say so?" Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) laughed until his molars appeared and recited the 67th verse of Surah Zumar: “Those who served other than Allah could not truly know Allah…” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Adjective-il-Qiyame: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3547-) It has been narrated from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) smiled, approvingly and astonished, at the last word of the Jew. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-il Kıyama: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3548-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A Jew passed by the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him, O Jew! he commanded. Tell us some things. The Jew said, O Abu'l Qasim. What would you say if Allah placed the heavens on this, the earth on this, the sea on this, the mountains on this, and the other creatures over that? Muhammed b. Salt first showed his little finger when Abu Jafar was narrating this hadith. Then he lined it up to the thumb. Then Allah revealed the 67th verse of the chapter of Zumar: “Those who serve other than Allah did not know Allah truly…”. (Musnad: 26288) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. We know this hadith only in this way as the narration of Ibn Abbas. Küdayne's name is Yahya b. It is Mühelleb. Muhammed b. This hadith of Ismail, Hasen b. Şûca'dan and Muhammed b. I saw that you were narrating from Salt.
3549-) According to the narration from Mujahid (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Ibn Abbas said: “How wide is Hell? Do you know?" I said: "No." Ibn Abbas said: "Yes, by Allah, you cannot know." Aisha told me that she asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) the meaning of the 67th verse of Zumer Surah. Messenger of Allah! Where will the people be on that day?” He said: “On the bridge of Hell…” (Muslim, Sıfat-il Kıyama: 27; İbn Mâce, Zuhd: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3550-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: O Messenger of Allah: "Despite the vastness and greatness of the earth, it will be under the hand of Allah on the Day of Judgment. And the heavens will be gathered and rolled up in His right hand.” 39 Zumer: This is what our Lord says in verse 67. Where will the believers be found on that day? Said. They said, "The sirat above Hell is on it, O Aisha". (Muslim, Sıfat-il Kıyama: 27; İbn Mâce, Zuhd: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3551-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: How can I indulge in worldly pleasure while the angel who is in charge of blowing the trumpet has taken the trumpet in his mouth, his forehead is bent and he is waiting for the order to blow? Then the Muslims: What should we say if such a situation occurs? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: “Allah is sufficient for us, what an excellent guardian. Say, “We have put our trust and reliance on Allah, our Lord.” Sufyan said: "We rely only on Allah". (Musnad: 10614) This hadith is hasan. A'mesh also narrated this hadith to us from Atiyya and Abu Said.
3552-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh): A Bedouin, O Messenger of Allah! What is "Sûr" like? She asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is an instrument like a horn that makes a sound to be blown". (Abu Dâvûd, Sunnah: 27) This hadith is hasan, and we know this hadith only through the narration of Süleyman et Taymi.
3553-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), a Jew said, while shopping in the market of Medina: “No, for the sake of Allah, who made Moses superior to all people…” Thereupon, a man from the Ansar raised his hand, slapping the Jew's face and said, "How do you say this when we have the Prophet of Allah among us?" Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the 68th verse of Surah Zumar and said: “I will be the first to raise their heads. At this very moment, I will see Moses clinging to one of the pillars of the throne. Did he raise his head before me, or is he one of those whom Allah made an exception? I do not know. Who is my Yunus b. He would be lying if he said it was better than Metta.” (Bukhari, Ehadith-ul Anbiya: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3554-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), it is reported that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: On the Day of Judgment, a crier will call out to you: “A life not to die, a family to be healthy, a life that will never get old. There is youth and abundance without narrowness.” This is the meaning of Allah in verse 43 of Surat al-Araf: “Before we enter there, we will wipe out all inappropriate thoughts or feelings that may have been stuck in them; Streams and rivers will cry before them there, and they will say: “All praise befits Allah, who has brought us to this happiness. Because if He had not guided us, we would never have found the right path! and the messengers of our Lord have indeed told us the truth.” and a voice will call out: “This is the Paradise you have earned, thanks to what you have done in the past.” (Muslim, Jannat: 27) Ibn al-Mubarak and others narrated this hadith without apologizing from As-Sawri.
3555-) Numân b. Bashir (radiyallahu anh) said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "Dua is worship itself." Then he recited the 60th verse of the chapter of Mu'min: "But your Lord says to me: Pray, I will accept your prayer. Undoubtedly, those who are arrogantly afraid to serve Me will enter Hell in disgrace.” (Ibn Majah, Dua: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3556-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Next to the Ka'ba, three people, two of them from the Quraysh, one from the sakif, or two of them, and one from the Quraysh, three people who were fat with poor understanding. One of them: What do you think? Does God hear what we are talking about? he said. The other said that if we speak aloud, he will hear, if not, he will not hear. The other said that when we speak aloud, he will definitely hear it. Thereupon, Allah revealed the verse of Fussilet chapter 22: “And you did not hope that your ears, eyes and skins would testify against you while you were committing sins, you did not hide anything from them, and you even thought that even Allah does not know much of what you do.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-il Munafiq: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3557-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Yazid (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abdullah b. Mas'ud said: While he was hidden under the cover of the Ka'ba, three fat people with low understanding came -one from Quraysh and the other two from their relatives - they spoke something that I could not understand, then one of them said: "What do you think? Does God hear what we are talking about?" she asked. The other said: “If we speak loudly, he will hear, if we lower our voice, he will not hear.” The other replied, "If he heard anything from what we talked about, he heard it all." Abdullah said: I explained the situation to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). He revealed his verses: “And while you were committing sins, you did not hope that your ears, eyes, and skins would testify against you, you did not hide anything from them, and you even thought that even Allah does not know much of what you do.” “And do you not have this ill-conceived notion that you have about your Lord, he destroyed you and you became one of the harmful ones.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-il Munafiq: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3558-) Mahmud b. Gaylân, from Sûfyan through Vekî, from A'meş, from Imara b. Umayr, Vehb b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Rabia and Abdullah.
3559-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the 30th verse of Fussilat Surah and said: “After saying, "Our Lord is Allah, We send down angels to those who act straight, and the angels say to them: "Do not be afraid, and don't worry. Here you go! Be glad and be glad of the Paradise that has been promised to you.” But whoever dies on this belief, they are on the straight path.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. We only know this way. I heard Abu Zur'a say: Affan, Amr b. He narrated a hadith from Ali. A hadith about the meaning of the word direction has been reported from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), Abu Bakr and Umar about this verse.
3560-) Abdulmalik b. According to the narration from Maysara (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard from Taus, he was saying: The 23rd verse of the chapter of Shura to Ibn Abbas: “Allah gives Paradise to His servants who believe and do righteous and beneficial works as a glad tiding. . Say, O Muhammad: “I do not ask you for any compensation for my prophetic duty. All I want is kinship love. Whoever does a good deed, we will double his reward in this matter. Undoubtedly, Allah is the One Who forgives sins and rewards gratitude.” Said b. Jubayr said: "The kinship of the household of Muhammad (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)" Ibn Abbas said: You acted hastily, do you know that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was related to all tribes of Quraysh? Then, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said as an interpretation of the verse: "Apart from breaking kinship between you and me..." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Abbas in different ways.
3561-) According to an elder from Murreids, he said: I came to Kufa. Bilal b. I was informed about the fact that Ebi Bürde was cruel while he was a judge. I said that a lesson should be taken from this man, and I went to him, he sat alone in the house he had built for himself. I saw him in the state of a bone that had changed everything because of being tortured and beaten, and I said: Alhamdulillah O Bilal! I saw you pass us by holding your nose with no dust. Here you are today. Then he said: Who are you from? I said: "Murra b. I said, 'I am one of the sons of Abbad. He said, "Shall I tell you a hadith, maybe Allah will make you benefit from this hadith?" I said come on, tell me. He said: My father, Abu Burda, told his father, Abu Musa, that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Any trouble, big or small, that befalls a servant is only due to a sin he has committed. What Allah forgives is more. Abu Musa said: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) recited the 30th verse of Surah Shu'ra: "Every misfortune that befalls you is because of what your hands have done. However, Allah forgives many of your faults.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib and we know it only as it is.
3562-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Only fighting and quarrelling can be given to a community that has gone astray after being on the right path.” Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) recited the 58th verse of Surah Zuhruf: “Which is better, our gods or Him?” they say. But they introduced this comparison for the sake of discussion. Indeed, they are a belligerent and argumentative society.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith was only reported by Haccac b. We know from the narration of Dinar. Hajjaj is a reliable person and is a middle way person in hadith. Abu Gâlib's name is Hazevver.
3563-) According to the narration from Masrûk (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Abdullah b. A man came to Mas'ud; "A storyteller says that while he is telling a story, smoke will come out of the ground, it will block the ears of the unbelievers, and it will bring the believers to a state of flu." Upon this, Abdullah became enraged. While reclining, he straightened up and said: When any of you is asked something he knows, let him answer it. Mansur said: Let him know what he knows. When asked about something he does not know, he should say Allah knows best. Because a part of a person's knowledge is that he says Allah knows when he is asked about something he does not know. Allah said to his prophet: Surah Sa'd, verse 86: "Say, O Prophet: "I do not ask you for any compensation for my conveying this message, and I am not one of those who falsely fabricate, pretend to be a prophet, or impose an obligation of my own accord." When the Quraysh resisted him, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed as follows: O Allah, help me against them by giving me a famine similar to the seven years of Yusuf's famine. Upon this prayer, a famine caught them, which ravaged everything. They had to eat animal carcasses and skins - they even ate bones, according to a rumor - Something in the form of smoke began to come out of the ground. Abu Sufyan came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and my people would be destroyed en masse. Pray to Allah for them, this is Surah Duhan 10-11. That's why the verses were revealed: “10) Now watch… The day when a clearly visible smoke will come from the sky. 11) Such a smoke that it has surrounded all humanity. This is a painful torment.” Mansur says in his own narration: This event occurred in Duhan 12-13. This is the reason for the descent of the verses: “Then people; O our Lord! Remove the torment from us, they say, we believe. But what good is this reminder to them at the last hour? Because a messenger had come to them before, who made clear the truth.” But will the torment of the Hereafter ever be lifted? “Batşe” = means severe blow. “Lizam” means Dukhan. (Taha Surah 129; Furkan Surah 77) In addition to these portents, some add "Kamer" and some add news that "Greeks" will be victorious. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-il Kiyame: 17) “Lizam” is the defeat that occurred on the day of Badr. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3564-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Every believer has two doors, one door for his deeds and the other door for his sustenance and when he dies, these two doors cry for him. “Neither the heavens nor the inhabitants of the earth weeped over their destruction, nor was they given time for repentance.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. As merfu, we know this hadith only in this way. Musa b. Ubeyde and Yazid b. Eban er Rukashi are considered weak in hadith.
3565-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from the son of Selam (radiy-Allâhu anh)'s brother, he said: Hello came to him. Osman, why did you come to him? She asked. He said he came to help you. Osman, you go to the people who rebelled against me and drive them away from me. It is better for me to be outside than to be inside. Thereupon, Abdullah b. Selam stood among the rebellious people and said: "O People! My name was in Ignorance. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) gave me the name Abdullah, and the 10th verse of the chapter of Ahqaf from Allah's book was revealed about me. Again, the 43rd verse of the chapter of Ra'd is one of the verses that were revealed about me. has a sword in its sheath against you. Angels have been neighbors to you in your country where the Prophet was sent. Fear Allah about this man and about killing him. If you kill him, the angels who are your neighbors will be driven away from you, and the sword of Allah that is sheathed against you will be unsheathed and will not be sheathed until the Day of Judgment. Abdullah b. Selam's brother's son said: Those people who listened to this word said kill both the Jew and Osman. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. b. Safwan reported this hadith from Abdulmalik b. From Umayr, Ibn Muhammad, Ibn Abdullah b. Salam and his grandfather Abdullah b. He narrates from Selam.
3566-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: When the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) saw a rain cloud, it would come and go back and forth. I asked him the reason for this, and he said: I don't know, maybe this cloud may be the cloud that Allah has revealed in the 24th verse of the Qur'an: “Finally, when he saw the torment that would come, in the form of a large cloud on the horizon, coming towards his valleys: “This is rain for us. It is a cloud that will rain.” The prophet Hud said: "No, it is what you want to hurry, it is the wind that brings the painful punishment." (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Salat-ul İstiska: 17) This hadith is hasan.
3567-) According to the narration from Alkame (radiyallahu anh), he said: Did any of you keep company with the prophet on the night of the jinn? Abdullah said: None of us was friends with him. But we lost him one night in Mecca. We ruled that he was assassinated or that the murder committed against him was covered up. So we had the worst night a congregation has ever had. Finally, when we arrived in the morning and it was almost morning, we suddenly saw that it was coming from Hira. They told him the situation they were in. Thereupon, they said: The jinn invitees came to me. I went to them and recited verses from the Qur'an to them. Then he went and showed us their traces and works of fire. Sha'bi says: The Jinn asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) about their provisions -they were from the Jinn of Jazira. All kinds of dung and dung are also the food of your animals. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: Do not get hysterical with these two items, because they are the food of your jinn brothers. (Muslim, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3568-) It was narrated from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh). Upon the revelation of verse 19 of the chapter of Muhammad: “Know that there is no god but Allah, but Allah as the true God. Ask forgiveness for both your own faults and the faults and sins of believing men and women. Because Allah knows where you will turn around and where you will return.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I ask forgiveness of Allah seventy times every day. (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Ibn Majah, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. It was narrated from Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: I ask forgiveness from Allah a hundred times every day. In a different way from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "I ask forgiveness from Allah a hundred times a day." Muhammed b. Amr narrated the same hadith from Abu Salama and Abu Huraira.
3569-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: One day, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the end of the 38th verse of the chapter of Muhammad. The Companions asked who will be brought in our place. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) patted Salman on the shoulder and then said: "This and his community." (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 17; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 27) This hadith is strange. There is a rumor in your deed. Abdullah b. Jafar likewise narrated this hadith from Ala b. He narrated from Abdurrahman.
3570-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Some of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) O Messenger of Allah! “Who are the ones who will be replaced and who will not be like us if we turn away from obedience to Allah?” (Muhammad 38) Salman was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) hit Salman on the knee and said: "This and his men, I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my life, that even if faith is in the star of Sureyya, some Iranians will achieve it." (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 17; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 27) Abdullah b. Jafar b. Najih is the father of Ali Ibn al-Madin. Ali b. Hucr, Abdullah b. He narrated many hadiths from Jafar. Ali told us this hadith from Ismail b. Cafer, Abdullah b. quoted by Cafer.
3571-) Bishr b. Muaz, Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Ala through Cafer and said: "Even if faith hangs on the star of Sureyya..."
3572-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Eslem's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father, he said: Umar b. I heard Khattab say: We were with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in one of his expeditions. I talked to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and he was silent, I spoke again, he was silent again, then I spoke again and he was silent again. So I moved my camel and stepped aside. I said to myself: “O son of Khattab, may your mother be in your pain. I said, 'You insisted on the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) three times, and he did not talk to you all three times, so how worthy of a verse of the Qur'an to be revealed about you. Just in this situation, I heard someone calling me, and I immediately came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: “O son of Khattab! God sent down a surah for me tonight, which in return for this surah, I do not want everything that the sun rises to be mine; “Indeed, we have paved the way for a clear victory for you” (Feth 1) (Bukhari, Maghazi: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. He narrated this hadith from Malik as a mursal.
3573-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: On his return to Hudaybiyya to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), (verse 2 of Surah Fath); “In this way, Allah will show his forgiveness against all your mistakes, both in the past and in the future, that is, he will save you from all kinds of troubles and worries, and will complete his blessings on you by subduing those who oppose you, and will guide you to the path that takes you to Paradise with the last religion he has sent.” It had landed. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) revealed a verse to me: It is dearer to me than anything else on earth. Then the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) recited this verse to his Companions. They said, "With health and happiness..." God has explained how to treat you, or how will we be treated? Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) (Sura Fath verse 5) was revealed: “And it is for Allah to admit believing men and women into Gardens under which rivers flow, and to cover their sins and faults. This is truly a great salvation in the sight of Allah.” (Bukhari, Maghazi: 27; Muslim, Jihad: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih. Mucemmi' b. Hadith was also narrated from the concubine.
3574-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), eighty armed polytheists descended on the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) from the area of Tan’im at the time of the Fajr prayer. They wanted to kill the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). All caught. and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) released all of them. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 24th verse of the chapter of Fath: “He is Allah, who, after he made you victorious over them, withdrew their hand from you and your hand from them in the heart of Makkah. God sees everything you do.” (Muslim, Jihad: 27; Abu Dawud, Jihad: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3575-) Ubey b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “He tied them to the word taqwa” (Feth sura 26) as “Lailahe illallah”. (Musnad: 20301) This hadith is garib. Only Hasan b. We know with the story of Kazae. I asked Abu Zür'a about this hadith, and he said that he is known only as merfu.
3576-) According to the narration from Ibn Abi Mulayka (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Abdullah b. Zubayr told me as follows: Akra b. Habis had come to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Abu Bakr: O Messenger of Allah! said: “Appoint him as leader of your people.” Omar said: "Don't give him leadership" O Messenger of Allah. Thereupon, both of them talked and argued in the presence of the Prophet (pbuh), and their voices were very loud. Abu Bakr said to Umar: Your aim was only to oppose me. "I didn't want to be against you," Omar said. Thereupon, the second verse of Surah Hujurat was revealed: Those who believe! Do not raise your voice more than the voice of the prophet, that is, your personal views and preferences should not go above the prophet's commandments. Do not speak to Him aloud as you speak loudly to one another. Otherwise, all your good and good works may go to waste for a reason that you do not know and understand without your awareness. After the revelation of this verse, Umar would speak so quietly in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) could not hear his words and would ask again to understand. (Bukhari, Maghazi: 27; Nesâî, Adab-ül Kudat: 17) ebî Mülayke said: Abdullah b. Zubayr did not mention his grandfather, Abu Bakr, among the narrators. This hadith is hasan garib. He narrates this hadith from Ibn Abi Mulayka as mursal and in his book, Abdullah b. He does not mention Zubayr.
3577-) Berâ b. It was narrated from Azib (radiyallahu anh). He said about the 4th verse of Surah Hujurat: A man stood up and said: "O Messenger of Allah, my praise is exalting, but my reproach is humiliating." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "He is Allah who has that characteristic." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3578-) Ebû Cübeyre b. According to what is reported from Dahhak (radiyallahu anh), he said: One of us had two or three names, and when called by one of these names, he would not like it. Thereupon, the 11th verse of the chapter of Hujurat was revealed: “O you who believe! No one should make fun of other people and belittle them, perhaps those whom they mock and belittle may be better than themselves, and no woman should belittle other women and make fun of them, perhaps they may be better than themselves. And let none of you seek faults in another and slander or condemn them. Do not tease and quarrel and insult each other with bad nicknames. What an ugly thing to have a bad name after believing. Now, whoever does not repent and turns away from what Allah has forbidden, these are the ones who live contrary to the purpose of creation.” (Nesai, Eşribe: 27; İbn Mâce, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Jubayr and Sabit b. Dahhak b. He is the brother of Caliph al-Ansari. Ebû Zeyd, Said b. He is a friend of Rabi' Herevî and is a reliable person from Basra.
3579-) Ebû Salama, Yahya b. Halef, Bishr b. Through Mufaddal, Davud b. from ebî Hind, from Sha'bî, from Abu Jubayr b. They narrated a similar hadith from Dahhak. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3580-) Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh) recited the 7th verse of Surah Hujurat and said: This is your prophet to whom revelation was received. His Companions are the most distinguished of your leaders. If this is how it is said for them in this verse, what would your situation be like today? (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Ali b. al Madini says: Yahya b. Said el Kattan'a Müstemir b. I asked about Reyyan. “He is a trusted person,” he said.
3581-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) delivered a sermon to the people on the day of the conquest of Makkah and said: “O People! Allah has removed from you the pride of ignorance and boasting about ancestors. People are two groups; All people who are valuable in the sight of Allah, righteous, Muslims, and disobedient and unbelieving people who are despised by Allah are from the sons of Adam. Allah created Adam from dust and Allah says: (The 13th verse of the chapter of Hucurat) “O people! Behold, We have created you from a man and a woman. We have divided you into nations and tribes so that you may know one another. Undoubtedly, those of you who are honored and respected in the sight of Allah are those who try to find their way of life, path and method through Allah's book. For Allah is all-knowing, all-aware.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Hadith Abdullah b. We know that Dinar is a narration from Ibn Umar only in this way. Abdullah b. It has been noted that Jafar was weak in hadith. Yahya b. Main and others said he was weak. Abdullah b. Cafer, Ali b. He is the father of al-Madini. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Huraira and Ibn Abbas on this subject.
3582-) According to the narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Haseb” = property. “Kerem” means taqwa and responsibility awareness. (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih. Only in this form, Salam b. We know from the narration of Abu Muti.
3583-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Is there still more Hell? He will say (30th verse of the chapter of Qaf), and then Allah will put his feet in Hell. Thereupon, Hell will say enough for the sake of honor, and so some of them will be stuck in Hell.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Jannat: 17) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Huraira on this subject.
3584-) According to a narration from a man from the tribe of Rabia, he said: I came to Madina and entered the presence of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and was remembered as the delegate of Ad in his presence. Then I said, I seek refuge in Allah from being like the delegate of Ad. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), what is the delegate of Ad? she asked. I said that I fell for the person who knows best about this subject. When the people of Ad suffered from drought, he sent a man named Kayl. This man was Bakr b. He was a guest of Muawiya. Bekir made him drink wine and the two singers sang. Then he set out for the Mehre Mountains and prayed as follows: O Allah, I did not come to you for a patient that I will cure and a prisoner to whom I will ransom. He gives Muaviye a drink, thanking him for making him drink wine. Some clouds were brought to him. It was said to choose one of them. Of these, the room chose the black cloud. Thereupon, it was said to him, "Here's a piece of sand for you that will not leave anyone from the tribe of Ad." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) stated that the wind that was sent to them was small as a ring and said in Surah Zariyat 41.42. He recited the verses: “And you can see the same signs in what befell the people of 'Ad, which We sent upon them the whirlwind that destroyed all sinners. Wherever this hurricane passed, it left nothing, turning everything to rotten bones and ash.” (Ibn Majah, Jihad: 27) Many people have heard this hadith from Sellam Abu'l Munzir, Asim b. Ebin Nücüd, Ebû Vâil, Hâris b. They narrated from Hassan. Haris b. Hassan'a, Hârîs b. Also called Yazid.
3585-) Haris b. According to the narration from Yazid al-Bakrî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I came to Medina and entered the mosque. What can I see, the mosque is full of people, black banners are flying. I found Bilal standing next to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) who was wielding his sword. I asked what is the job of these people? They said: Amr b. They came to meet As. Manaca Sûfyan b. He narrated a similar hadith of Uyeyna for a long time. (Ibn Majah, Jihad: 27) b. Yazîd'e, Hârîs b. It is called Hassan.
3586-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “İdbar-un nûcüm” in the 49th verse of Surah Tur is the two rak'ahs before the fard of the morning prayer. “İdbar-us sûcûd” in the 40th verse of the chapter of Qaf is two rak'ahs after the fard of the evening prayer. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. As Merfu, we only know it in this way. In this narration, Muhammad b. Fudayl'in, Rîşdin b. It is the story of Kurayb. Muhammed b. I asked Ismail. He said, "Which of the sons of Ibn Kurayb, Muhammad and Rishdin, is stronger, how close they are to each other. However, Mohammed is superior to me. Abdullah b. I asked Abdurrahman the same thing and he said: How close they are to each other. However, Rîşd'in b. I think Kurayb is superior. In my opinion, the word of Abu Muhammad is true. Rishdin is more preferred than his brother Mohammed. Rishdin reached Ibn Abbas and saw him.
3587-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) arrived in Sidratul Muntaha, he said: "What comes out of the earth and descends from above ends here." There, Allah gave him three things that he had not given to any prophet before: the last two verses of the chapter of al-Baqara, the five daily prayers, the forgiveness of the great sins of the ummah as long as they do not associate anything with Allah. Mas'ud recited the 16th verse of the chapter of Najm and said, "Sidre is in the sixth sky." He said golden propellers, pointing with his hand and shaking his hand. Someone other than Malik ibn Migvel says: The knowledge of creatures ends in Sidre. (Muslim, Faith: 27; Nesai, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3588-) According to the narration from Shaybani (radiyallahu anh), he said: Zirr b. I asked Hubaysh about the 9th verse of the chapter of Najm, and he said: Ibn Mas'ud informed me that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) saw Gabriel and he had six hundred wings. (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
3589-) According to the narration from Sha'bî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Ibn Abbas met Ka'b in Arafat and asked him something. Upon this, Ka'b uttered such a takbir that its echo was heard from the mountains. Ibn Abbas said: Ka'b, one of us, sons of Hashim, replied: When Allah appeared, he divided his speech between Muhammad and Moses. Moses spoke to his Lord twice. Muhammad saw his Lord twice. He said: I went to Aisha and Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw his Lord? I asked. He replied: You asked such a question that I got goosebumps. I said, "Don't be in a hurry," and I read the 18th verse of Surah An-Najm. Aisha replied: Where are you going by making wrong interpretations and interpretations? The person that the prophet saw is Gabriel. Whoever tells you that Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) saw his Lord or hid something from what was ordered to him, or that he knew the unknowns in the 34th verse of Surah Luqman, would be committing the biggest lie and slander. But the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) saw Gabriel. He saw Gabriel twice in his own form; When the first revelation was revealed, one in Sidret-ul-munteha and the other in a cave in Mecca, it had six hundred wings in the Jiyad region and covered the entire horizon. (Muslim, Faith: 27; Bukhari, Faith: 17) Dâvûd b. Abi Hind narrated a similar hadith from Sha'bi, Masruk and Aisha, and Dawud's narration is shorter than Mucalid's hadith.
3590-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Muhammad has seen his Lord. Thereupon, Ikrima states the 103rd verse of En'am: "No human view or imagination can understand Him, whereas He encompasses every human view and imagination. For he is the only One who cannot fully penetrate His wisdom and who is aware of everything.” Didn't he read it and Allah said so? said. Ibn Abbas: Shame on you; It is when the thing you say is manifested by its own light. However, Muhammad saw his Lord twice. (Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
3591-) It was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh). Surah an-Najm 9.10. Verses: “Until they are two bows apart, or even closer. Thus, Allah revealed to His servant what He deems appropriate to be revealed.” He said about him: "The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) saw him." (Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is hasan.
3592-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he read the 11th verse of Surah Nacm and said: “He saw it with his heart.” (Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is hasan.
3593-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Shakiq (radiyallahu anh), I said to Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh) that if I had reached the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), I would definitely ask him. Abu Dharr said, What would you like to ask him? I said: Has Muhammad seen his Lord? I would ask, I said. Abu Dharr replied: I asked him and the room said: "It is a light, how can I see it?" (Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is hasan.
3594-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said about the 11th verse of Surah An-Nacm: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw Gabriel in a dress made of shining fabric, filling the sky and the earth.” (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan.
3595-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he reported that the Prophet said about the 32nd verse of the chapter of Najm: "O Allah, you will forgive a lot. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. However, Zechariah b. We know from the narration of Ishaq.
3596-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “While we were with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in Minâ, the moon was divided into two parts, one part of which is beyond Mount Hıra and the other is behind it. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Be witness," and recited the first verse of the chapter of al-Qamar." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-il Kıyama: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3597-) It was narrated from Enes (radiy-Allâhu anh). He said: The Meccans wanted a miracle from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). His verses were revealed: “The Hour of Judgment has approached and the moon has split. If those unbelievers see a miracle, they immediately turn away; They say, "It's magic that happens all the time." The word "mustamir" in the verse has been given its temporary meaning. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-il Kıyama: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3598-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The moon was divided into two at the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Be witness to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him)". (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-il Kıyama: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3599-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: "During the time of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) the moon was split into two, so the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "Bear witness!" he commanded. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-il Kıyama: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3600-) Jubayr b. According to the narration from Mut'im (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The moon split in the time of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and became two parts on this mountain. Thereupon, the Meccan polytheists said, "Muhammad has bewitched us." Some of them said, “If it enchanted us, it cannot enchant all people either.” (Musnad: 16150) Some people quote this hadith from Husayn, Jubayr b. Muhammed b. Cuber b. They narrated a similar hadith from Mut'im from his father and grandfather.
3601-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The polytheists of Quraysh came to argue with the prophet about the issue of fate. The verses came down: “On the day when their prostrates will be dragged into the fire, it will be said to them: “Taste the burning of the fire of Hell.” “Indeed, we have created everything according to a certain measure, order and plan.” (Muslim, Destiny: 17; Ibn Majah, Muqaddimah: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3602-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went up to his Companions and recited Surah Rahman from beginning to end. Companions: they were silent. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I read this surah to the Jinn on the night of Jinn, and they were more positive than you in terms of answer in the surah: "Then, you two communities, which of the many blessings of your Lord can you deny." Every time they came to the verse, the jinn said: "Our Lord, do not deny any of your blessings, thank you." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Only Walid b. Muslim's Zuhayr b. We know it from the narration of Muhammad. b. Hanbal says: Zuhayr b. It is as if Muhammad is not a person from whom hadiths were narrated in Iraq, as if he was another man. His name was changed so that munkar hadiths were narrated from him. b. I heard Ismail say: The people of Damascus, Zuhayr b. He narrates munkar hadiths from Muhammad. Iraqis, on the other hand, narrate acceptable hadiths from him.
3603-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Allah says: I have prepared blessings for my righteous servants that no eye has seen, no ear has heard, and no human heart has ever heard. If you wish, read the 17th verse of Surah Sajda: “As for the believers who behave like this, no one can imagine what is hidden for them as a reward for what they have done in the next world, as the light of the eye, which has been hidden for them until now.” There is a tree in Paradise that a tall person cannot finish in a century under its shadow. If you wish, read the 30th verse of the chapter of al-Waqia: "Longing shadows." A whipping place in Paradise is better than the world and all that is in it. If you wish, read the 185th verse of the chapter of Âl-i Imran: “Every soul will taste death. Thus, on the Day of Judgment, you will be paid in full for what you did. Those who will be removed from the fire and placed in Paradise there have attained true salvation. For, indulging in this worldly life is nothing but deceptive pleasure.” (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 17; Muslim, Cennet: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3604-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There is a tree in Paradise that a person with a mount cannot finish it in the shade of that tree for a hundred years, if you wish, Surah Vakia 30-31. read the verses: “Longing shadows, gushing and gushing waters.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith was also narrated from Abu Said.
3605-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said the following about the 34th verse of Surah Vakia: The height of the mattresses is between the sky and the earth. The distance between the sky and the earth is a journey of five hundred years. (Musnad: 11294) This hadith is garib. We know only from the Rishdin narration.
3606-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about the 82nd verse of Surat al-Waqia: it rained. You say things like something happened with the falling of a star or something like… (In other words, you forget Allah and put the causes of your affairs in the place of the creator, you deny us when you should be grateful to us) (Musnad: 639) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. We know the hadith as merfu only through the narration of Israel.
3607-) Sûfyan as-Sevri narrated this hadith from Abdul A'la, Abdurrahman es Sülemi and Ali in a similar way, without merfu.
3608-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said about the 35th verse of Surat al-Waqia: “The crones with burr-eyed eyes will also be among the women re-created there.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. As Merfu, only Musa b. We know from the narration of Ubayda. Musa b. Ubeyde and Yazid b. Eban er Rukashi are weak people in hadith.
3609-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), Abu Bakr said: “O Messenger of Allah! you're old," he said. Upon this, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The surahs Hud, Waqia, Mursalat, Naba and Takvir made me old.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only in this way, through the narration of Ibn Abbas. Ali b. Salih narrated this hadith in a similar way from Abu Juhayfa through Abu Ishaq. At the same time, a hadith close to this was narrated from Abu Maysara as a mursal through Abu Ishaq.
3610-) Abu Bakr b. Ayyaş, from Abu Ishaq, from Ikrima; He narrated a hadith similar to that of Shayban from Abu Ishaq, but did not mention Ibn Abbas in the hadith. Likewise, Hasin b. Velid al-Herevî Abu Bakr b. He narrated the hadith through a drunkard.
3611-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sitting with his Companions, a cloud came over them. Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), do you know what it is? She asked. The Companions said: Allah and His Messenger know better. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: This is a cloud! These clouds are the waterers of the land. Allah sends them even to those who do not thank Him and do not serve Him. Do you know what you have on you then? she asked. The Companions said: Allah and His Messenger know better. Thereupon, he said: It is the sky of our world, a protected ceiling and a restrained wave. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) asked: What is the distance between you and this sky? She asked. The Companions said: Allah and His Messenger know better. He said: There is a distance of five hundred years between you and him. Then he continued: Do you know what's on it? The Companions said: Allah and His Messenger know better. He said: There are two more heavens above it, the distance between them is a distance of five hundred years... The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) counted all seven heavens, and the distance between both heavens is the same as the distance between the earth and the earth's sky. Then he said: Do you know what is on it? The Companions said: Allah and His Messenger know better. He said: There is an Throne on it too, the distance between the Throne and the seventh heaven is the same as the distance between the two heavens. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), do you know what is under you? he commanded. The Companions said: Allah and His Messenger know better. He said: It is the earth below you. Then you know what's under it? They said, 'Allah and His Messenger know better. He said: Beneath it is another earth, the distance between the two of which is a five-hundred-year journey. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) counted up to seven earths and said that there was a distance of five hundred years between each earth. Then he said: By Allah, in whose hand is Muhammad's soul, he said, "If you had hung a rope on the lowest earth, that rope would have reached Allah." He read the third verse of Surah Hadid. (Musnad: 8472) This hadith is strange in its form. Eyyub, Yunus b. Ubayd and Ali b. It was narrated that Zayd said: Hasan did not hear any hadith from Abu Huraira. Scholars have interpreted this hadith as follows: The rope descends only on the knowledge, power and reign of Allah. Because Allah's knowledge, power and reign are everywhere. He is on the Throne, as he declares in his book.
3612-) Salama b. According to the narration from Sahr al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was given a power that was not given to anyone in sexual relations with women. When the month of Ramadan comes, I am afraid that I will approach my wife and continue this work until the sun comes up, and I made a zihar by saying that you are like my mother during Ramadan. One night, while he was serving me, one side of him opened up, so I jumped on him right away, and in the morning I went to my own people and told them the situation, and I said: I will tell him the situation when you go with me to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). They said no. By Allah, we do not do this. We are afraid that the Qur'an will be revealed about us, or we are afraid that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) will say something that may be shameful about us. But if you want, go and do whatever you want… Then I left them and came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and told him the situation. Did you do this? He commanded. And I said I did it. Did you do this again… he said. And I said I did it. He said, "Did you do this again?" And I said I did it. Here I am in your presence, apply whatever God's judgment is about me, and I will bear my punishment. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to free a slave. Thereupon, I hit my neck with both my hands and said no. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said then fast for two months. Me too, O Messenger of Allah! Didn't what happened to me already happened because of fasting? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said then, feed sixty poor people. For the sake of the person who sent you with the truth, we spent our night hungry, we didn't even have dinner. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Then go to the zakat officer of the sons of Zurayko and tell him to give you zakat from the goods, you can feed sixty poor people by giving one measure of dates instead of your own zakat, and feed your children with the rest," he said. Thereupon, I turned to my people and said to them: I have found narrowness and bad vision in you, but I found abundance and blessings in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). He ordered your Zakat to be given to me. (Abu Dâvûd, Talak: 27; İbn Mâce, Talak: 17) This hadith is hasan. Muhammad says: Sulayman b. Yesâr I think Salama b. He did not hear any hadith from Sahr. Muhammad also says: Salama b. Sahr'a, Süleyman b. It is called in Sahr. A hadith was also narrated from Hawla bint Sa'lebe on the subject. Havle, Evs b. She is Samit's wife.
3613-) Ali b. According to the narration from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the 12th verse of the chapter of struggle was revealed, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to me: “How much money do you see fit, is dinar enough?” he commanded. And I said: "They can't afford it". "Then how about half a dinar?" he commanded. I said to him that they are not strong enough. "Then how much?" he commanded. I said: "Gold as the weight of a grain of barley." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "You also said very little." Thereupon, the 13th verse of the chapter of Struggle was revealed: “Are you afraid that you will become poor because of giving alms before you speak in secret? Since you did not do what you were ordered, Allah forgave you from this, therefore, after that, you can talk and consult without giving alms. So from now on, be careful in your prayers, pay the zakat, and obey Allah and His Messenger. Because Allah is aware of everything you do.” Thus, Allah lightened the burden of the Ummah because of me. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib and we know it only in this way. The meaning of the word a barley grain in the hadith is as much gold as the weight of barley. Abu'l Ca'd's name is Rafi.
3614-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): A Jew came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and his companions; “Assamu aleykum,” he said. They responded to him in the congregation. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Do you know what this man said?” said. They said: "Allah and His Messenger know better, but he greeted me, O Prophet of Allah." Upon this, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “After saying that man said such and such, call that man to me.” So they called him. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Did you say “Assamu alaikum”? she asked. The Jew said: "Yes." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When one of the people of the Book greets you; Respond by saying, “May the word you say be upon you” and he read the 8th verse of the chapter of Struggle: “…When they come to you, they greet you in a way that Allah does not greet…” (Bukhari, Istizan: 27; Muslim, Selam: 17) The hadith is hasan authentic.
3615-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had the date groves of the sons of Nadr burned and cut down, these were the date groves of Buwayra. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 5th verse of Surah Hashr: “Whatever you cut down on their date trees or whatever you left on their roots, it was all by Allah's leave, and this permission is for Allah to punish those who go astray.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Jihad: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3616-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said in the 5th verse of Surah Hashr: The word "Line" means date. “It is for Allah to punish those who go astray.” He interpreted his statement as follows: They asked them to come down from their castles. They were also ordered to cut their dates, and a doubt fell in their hearts. The Muslims said: We cut some off and left some. We will definitely ask the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Do we have a sin because of what we left behind because of what we cut? Thereupon, Allah revealed the 5th verse of Hashr period: “Whatever you have cut down on their date trees or left on their roots, it has all been by Allah's leave, and this permission is for Allah to punish those who go astray.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3617-) Some of them reported this hadith from Hafs b. From Gıyas, Habib b. from ebî Amre, Said b. They narrated from Jubayr as mursal, and did not mention Ibn Abbas in his deed. In this way, Abdullah b. Abdurrahman, Marwan b. Muaviye, Hafs b. From Gıyas, Habib. from ebî Amre, Said b. They narrated from Jubayr as mursal.
3618-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), a guest spent the night with a man from the Ansar, and that person had only food for himself and his children. He said to his wife: Put the children to sleep, put out the lamp and put the food in front of the guest. Thereupon, the 9th verse of the chapter of al-Hashr was revealed: “And those who took Madinah as their home and house of faith before them, love those who migrated to them and do not feel envy in their hearts because of the booty given to them, on the contrary, even if they are in need and necessity, they prefer others over themselves. Whoever avoids greed, it is they who will attain happiness.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Esribe: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3619-) Ali b. According to a narration from Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), me, Zubayr and Miqdat b. He sent Eswad and said: Go, when you reach the “Hah” garden, you will find a woman there, take the letter on it and bring it to me. We went out too, our horses were running with us. Finally, we came to that garden and suddenly we met the traveler woman, so we said take out the letter. He said, 'I don't have any letters. We said either you will remove the letter or you will remove the clothes. Then she pulled the letter out of her braids. We brought the letter to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). We also saw that the letter Hatib b. It was sent from Beltea to some polytheists in Mecca. Hatib informs the polytheists about some of the deeds of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), O Hatib, what is this? she asked. Hatib: O Messenger of Allah! Do not be in a hurry to pass judgment on me, I am a person who came to Quraysh and settled as a refuge. I am not a true Quraysh. The immigrants who are with you have relatives to protect their property and families. Since I am not a descendant of this Quraysh, I wanted to do them a favor so that they would protect my relatives. I did not do this because I am an unbeliever or because I have converted from my religion or because I have consented to unbelief. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “He told the truth. Umar b. As for Khattab; O Messenger of Allah! Let me cut off that hypocrite's head. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: He participated in the battle of Badr, what do you know? Maybe; Allah looked at those who participated in Badr and said to them: "Do what you want, I have forgiven you." Here, the first verse of the chapter of Mümtahine, Hatib b. About Beltea has descended; “O you who believe! Do not befriend those who are my enemies or your enemies. Although they denied the true message that came to you and expelled His Messenger and you from your homeland because you believed in Allah, your Lord, you send them letters out of love. If you went to war to fight in my way and to win my favor, are you hiding love for them inside of you? But I know everything you hide and reveal. Whoever among you does this, he has indeed gone astray in the middle of the straight path.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 17) said: I saw Ibn Abi Rafi'i, Ali b. He was the secretary of Abi Talib. This hadith is hasan authentic. Amr and Jabir b. Hadith was also narrated from Abdullah. Many people refer to this hadith as Sufyan b. It was narrated from Uyeyna as here, and the narrators quoted the following part in the hadith: "Either you take out the letter or you throw away your clothes." The hadith is also written by Abu Abdurrahman b. Similar to the hadith above, it was narrated from Yahya from Ali. In this hadith, they said, "You will either take out the letter or we will strip your clothes".
3620-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would test only believing women in accordance with the 12th verse of the chapter of Mümtahina.
3621-) Ma'mer says: The son of Taus, narrated from his father, said: The hand of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) never touched the hand of a woman he did not possess. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Imara: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3622-) According to the narration from Umm Salama al-Ansariyya (radiyallahu anha), one of the women said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): What is the order of Islam that we should not go against you? she asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, 'Do not weep by yelling at the dead and tearing your hair. Thereupon I, O Messenger of Allah! said; Upon the death of my uncle, the sons of Phanalan helped us by lamenting me. “I have to answer them too,” I said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not allow me. But I applied to him many times, he allowed me to respond to them. I've never cried out loud to anyone but him. However, there is no woman other than me who does not cry out loud. (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 27) This hadith is hasan. A hadith was also narrated from Umm Atiyya (radiy-Allâhu anha) on the subject. Abd b. Humayd says: Umm Salama al-Ansariyye, Yazid b. Seke's daughter is Esma.
3623-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the 10th verse of the chapter of Mümtahina was revealed, a woman came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) as a Muslim, she would take an oath for Allah as follows: “Not because I do not love my husband, but only because I do not love my husband. I migrated because I loved Allah and His Messenger." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib.
3624-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Salam (radiyallahu anh), he said: We sat down and discussed with a few of the Companions of the Prophet, and we said: "If we knew which of the deeds is more beloved to Allah, we would certainly do it." Thereupon, Allah, Surah Safa 1-2. He sent down the verses: “Whatever is in the heavens and the earth exalts the boundless glory of Allah. Because His is the power that is not defeated and He is the one who does everything he does properly, O you who believe! Why are you saying what you won't do?" b. Salam said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited this verse to us." Abu Salama said: "This verse was written by Abdullah b. Hi read to us.” Yahya said: "Abu Salama read this to us." Ibn Kathir said: "Yahya el Evzai read this to us." Abdullah said: "Ibn Kathir read this to us." (Dârimî, Jihâd: 17) Ibn Kathir was opposed by Evzâî about the proof of this hadith. Ibn'ul Mubarak, from Evzai, Yahya b. from ebî Kesîr, Hilal b. From ebî Maymûne, Ata b. From Yesâr, Abdullah b. Salam or Abu Salama and Abdullah b. He narrated this hadith from Salam. b. Muslim narrates this hadith from Evzai to Muhammad b. It was narrated in a similar way to the narration of Kathir.
3625-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) when the chapter of Friday was revealed, he recited it to us and in the 3rd verse: "This prophet will tell other peoples who will come later... ” came, a man said to him, O Messenger of Allah: “Who are these people who cannot reach us?” The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not talk to him. Salman was also among us. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) placed his hand on Salman and said: "I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my soul, that even if faith is in the star of Sureyya, some of them can achieve it." (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 17) b. Zayd is from Medina. Sevr b. Yazid is from Damascus. The name of Ebul Gays is Salim and he is Abdullah b. He is the freedman of Muti. He is a person from Madinah and is trusted. This hadith is garib. Abdullah b. Cafer, Ali b. He is the father of al-Madini. Yahya b. Maîn considers himself weak.
3626-) According to what is reported from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was delivering a standing sermon on Friday, a caravan of Medina arrived. The Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) immediately rushed to him. Twelve people, including Abu Bakr and Umar, remained in the masjid. Thereupon, the 11th verse of the chapter of Friday was revealed: "While some of the people, when they hear that a trade caravan has arrived in the year of famine, or when they see a worldly gain or temporary entertainment, they run towards it and leave you standing in the mosque. Say: Blessings, Paradise and rewards in the sight of Allah are better than all temporary entertainment and all gains, and Allah is the best of those who provide sustenance. (Bukhari, Friday: 17; Muslim, Friday: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3627-) Ahmed b. From Husayn through Müni' Hisham to Sâlim b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Ab'il Ca'd and Jabir. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3628-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Erkam (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was with my uncle. Abdullah b. I heard Ubay say to his men: "Do not give anything to those who are with the prophet of God, so that they will disperse from around him." “If we return to Medina; “We, the superiors, will drive the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the lowly people with him out of Medina.” I told this to my uncle. My uncle also told the situation to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) called me. I told him what I heard. Then the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Abdullah b. He sent word to Ubay and his men. And they swore they didn't tell. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also believed that I was lying and that he was telling the truth. Something that had never occurred to me until that day happened to me at that moment. I went home and my uncle said, "What was your purpose, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made you a liar and got angry with you." Then Allah sent down the chapter of Munafiqun. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) sent me a message and recited this surah and said: "Allah has confirmed you." (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-ül Münafiqin: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3629-) Zayd b. According to a narration from Erkam (radiyallahu anh), he said: We went to war with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and there were Bedouins with us. We used to run to the water, the Arabs used to reach the water before us. Then a Bedouin passed his Bedouin friends. A'rabi passed by, fills the pool, surrounds it with stones, throws a leather cover over it, and waits until his friends come. A man from the Ansar came to the bedouin and pulled his camel's bridle to drink water, but the bedouin did not want to let him go. He also broke the dam of the water. The Bedouin also picked up a piece of wood and struck Ansari on the head and wounded him in the head. The leader of the Ansari hypocrites, Abdullah b. He came to Ubay and explained the situation to him. He was one of his men. Abdullah b. Ubay became angry and said: “Do not give anything to those who are with the prophet of Allah, so that they will disperse from around him.” That is, the Bedouins. These Bedouins used to come to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) at meal time. Abdullah b. Ubayy said: When they dispersed from Muhammad, he said, "Bring food to Muhammad, so that he and those with him can eat." Then he spoke to his friends as follows: If we return to Medina, we, the superior ones, will drive the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the lowly people with him out of Medina. Zayd said: I was behind the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) in his riding. Abdullah b. I heard Ubayy and informed my uncle, who went and told the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) sent a message to him. He took an oath and denied what had happened. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) accepted it as true and thought that he had lied to me. Then my uncle came to me and what was your intention, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) got angry with you and got offended. All Muslims considered you a liar. An inconvenience descended upon me that no one had ever experienced. While I was walking with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey, my head was shaking from boredom. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) came to me and pulled my ear and laughed in my face. Even the news of staying on earth would not make me so happy. Then Abu Bakr reached me and said: What did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say to you? Said. I said: he didn't say anything to me, he pulled my ear and laughed in my face. Abu Bakr said: Good news, rejoice, then. Then Omar met me. I told him that I told Abu Bakr. In the morning, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the chapter of Munafiqun. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-ül Münafiqin: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3630-) Referee b. According to a narration from Uyeyna (radiyallahu anh), he said: Muhammad b. For forty years, Ka'b el Kurazi's Zayd b. I have heard him quote from Erkam as follows: Abdullah b. Ubey, in the battle of Tabuk; He said, "If we return to Medina, we, the superiors, will drive the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and the lowly people with him out of Medina." Thereupon, I came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and explained the situation to him. Ubay swore that he did not say this word. Thereupon, my community condemned me and said, “Why did you do that?” they said. I came home and went to bed sad and sad. Then the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came to me or I went to him and said: "Allah has confirmed you." The 7th verse of the chapter of Munafiqun was revealed: “These are the people who; They say, "Do not give anything to those who are with the prophet of Allah, so that they will disperse from around him". The treasures of the heavens and the earth belong to Allah, but hypocrites cannot understand or comprehend this truth.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Sıfat-ül Münafiqin: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3631-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were in a war (Sufyan is of the opinion that this war was the war of the Sons of Mustalik.) Meanwhile, a man from the emigrants struck one of the Ansar in the back. Muhajir said: “O Muhajirs! Grow up" Ansari said: "O Ansâr, grow up" The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) heard this and what is the use of the associations in the ignorant period between us now? The Companions said: A man from the Muhajirin hit the back of a man from the Ansar. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, 'Let go of this rotten ignorant period'. Abdullah b. Ubey b. Selül heard this and said: “Is this what they did? If we return to Medina, we will expel the superiors, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), and the lowly people with him from Medina.” 'Umar said to him: O Messenger of Allah! Let me slap that hypocrite's neck. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Let him go. People should not talk that Muhammad is killing his friends, other than Umar say: His son Abdullah b. Abdullah said to him: "By Allah, you cannot return to Medina without acknowledging that you are disgraced and that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) is a saint. That's exactly what he did." (Bukhari, Menakib: 17; Muslim, Birr: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3632-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “A person who has enough wealth to enable him to make pilgrimage to the Ka'ba or pay Zakat on him, but does not fulfill this duty, should wish to return to the worldly life at the time of his death. Thereupon, a man said, "O son of Abbas." Have a sense of responsibility towards Allah. However, the unbelievers will want to return to the worldly life. Ibn Abbas said: I will recite verses of the Qur'an to you on this matter. The chapter of munafiqun 9.10.11. He read his verses. Ibn Abbas: "What makes zakat obligatory?" she asked. That man said: "When the goods are more than two hundred dirhams." Ibn Abbas said: "Hajj is obligatory for anyone." And that man said: "Provision and mount." (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3633-) Abd b. Humayd, from Sevrî through Abdurrezzak, from Yahya b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Abi Hayya, Dahhak, and Ibn Abbas. as Sûfyan b. Uyayna and many others have narrated this hadith as Ibn 'Abbas' own words, without dissenting from Abu Cenab, Dahhak, and Ibn 'Abbas. This narration is stronger than the narration of Abdurrezzak. Abu Cenab's name was Yahya b. Abi Hayya, he is not very strong in hadith.
3634-) It was narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh). A man asked Ibn Abbas about the 14th verse of the chapter of Taghabun, and Ibn Abbas said: These are the people from Mecca who converted to Islam and wanted to migrate to Madina and come to the Prophet, who did not leave their wives and children with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). they are people. When they finally came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), they saw how understanding Muslims were in religion, so they tried to punish their wives and children. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 14th verse of the chapter of Taghabun: “O believers! There are those who are hostile to you among your spouses and children. These may hinder you from the path of Allah and hinder your obedience to Him. Therefore, beware of following them, be careful, but if you tolerate their mistakes, do not see their faults and forgive them, know that Allah is the One Who hides all sins and has mercy on His servants. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3635-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the 4th verse of Allah's Surah at-Tahrim: "Turn to Allah with repentance, because both of your hearts were separated from the truth." I was very willing to ask Omar a question as to who the two wives of the prophet he had commanded were. Finally, Omar made the pilgrimage. I also made pilgrimage with him. I poured water on him from the water bowl, and he performed ablution, O Commander of the Believers! Who are the two prophet wives that Allah mentioned in the 4th verse of the chapter of Tahrim? said. Omer; He replied: Be amazed, O son of Abbas! Zuhri says: "Omar did not like Ibn Abbas's question, but he did not want to hide it." He said they are Aisha and Hafsa and he started to tell me the hadith. When we came to Medina, we saw that women were in a dominant position over men, but our women started to learn some things from their women. One day, I was angry with my wife, I saw that she responded to me, and I did not find it strange that she responded. Mistress: Why do you find this strange? By Allah, even the wives of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) responded to him, and one of them said that they spent the day away from him until the night. And I said to myself: "The woman who does this is completely in harm and loss." It was at a place called Avali in the Ümeyyeoğulları district. I had a neighbor from the Ansar. We were going down to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) in turns. One day he was brought down by revelation and other news. One day, I brought the news to him. At that time we were talking about how the Ghassanids were shoeing their horses to fight us Muslims. One day my neighbor came to me in the evening and knocked on my door. So I went out, "There has been a big incident" I said, did the Ghassanids come or not? He said: "It is a bigger event than this." The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) divorced his wives. Then I said to myself: "Hafsa has lost and is in loss". I was anticipating that such a job would happen, so I put on my clothes when I prayed the morning prayer and set off. When I entered Hafsa's house, I found her crying: "Did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) divorce you?" I asked. Hafsa said, "I don't know." He said, 'Here he is in recess in that room. I came to that room so I could get up and walk in with him. I said to a black young man who served the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): Ask permission for Omar! He went in and came out and reported it, but he didn't say anything, he said. Then I went to the mosque. I encountered several people crying around the pulpit. I sat next to them. Then my distress increased even more. I came back to the black young man who served the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). I went to the mosque again and sat down, but I couldn't stop, I came to the black youth again. I said ask for permission for Umar. While I was turning around, the young man turned and called me; He said let's go in. So I entered and found the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) leaning on a dry mat and saw the trace of the mat next to him and said: O Messenger of Allah! Did you divorce your wives? “No,” he said. So I said "Allahu Akbar". We are in the same situation. As the Quraysh community, we were dominant over women. When we came to Medina, we found a group of women who dominated their men. Our ladies also started to learn something from them. One day I was angry with my wife and she responded to me. I wasn't welcome either. My lady said: "Why do you find it strange?" By Allah, even the wives of the Prophet respond to him, and one of them spends a day away from him until the night. Then would you answer Hafsa to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)? I asked. He said yes too. In fact, one of us spends the day away from him until the night, he said. Whoever among you has done this has lost and is at a loss. Can any of you be safe from incurring the wrath of Allah and being destroyed because of the anger of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) smiled. I said to Hafsa: Do not respond to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and do not ask for anything from him. I said don't let her response deceive you. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) smiled once again. Then O Messenger of Allah! Shall we change the subject? said. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) said, "Yes." Then I raised my head and saw three raw hides and said, “O Messenger of Allah! Pray to Allah to provide abundant sustenance to your Ummah…” I said. He gave plenty to Iran and the Greeks, even though they did not worship him. He straightened up from where he was sitting and said: “O Hattab's son, are you in doubt? Goodness and blessings to those communities were quickly given to them in this worldly life.” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took an oath not to enter his wives for a month. Allah got angry with his prophet about this issue and ordered him to give an oath kaffarah on this issue. (Bukhari, Science: 27; Muslim, Siamese: 17)
3636-) Zuhri says: Urwa narrated to me from Aisha: When twenty-nine days passed, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) entered me and I will remind you of something, starting with me, O Aisha; Do not rush to make a decision on this matter without consulting your mother and father, then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the 28th verse of Surah Ahzab. By Allah, he knew that my parents would not order me to leave him. I said I will consult with my mother and father about this. I said: "I want Allah, the prophet and the home of the hereafter". He says: According to what Ayyub told me, Aisha said to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): "O Prophet of Allah! Do not tell my other wives that I have chosen you!” The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Allah sent you as a messenger, not as a troublemaker." This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Ibn Abbas in different ways.
3637-) Abdulvahit b. According to the narration from Sulaym (radiyallahu anh), he said: I came to Mecca, Ata b. When I met Abi Rebah: “O Abu Muhammad! Some people in those parts of us talk about fate back and forth," I said. Ata replied: Ben Ubade b. I met Walid, the son of Samit, and he said: My father told me that he heard the following from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): The first thing that Allah created is the pen, and then he said write to that pen. He also wrote about things that will last forever. This hadith is much longer than this one. (Musnad: 21647) This hadith is hasan garib. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject.
3638-) Abbas b. According to the narration from Abdulmuttalib (radiyallahu anh), he said: Some people were living in Batha with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Then a cloud passed over them and they looked at it. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked, do you know what the name of this cloud is? He asked: "Yes, this is the cloud," they said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "This is a sinner." They also said "our". The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "She is your mother." And they said: "It is your mother". Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do you know what is the distance between the sky and the earth?" she asked. They said, "No, by God we don't know." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The distance between them is either a distance of seventy-one or seventy-two or seventy-three years. So is the sky above him.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) counted up to seven heavens and then said: "There is a sea above the seventh sky, the distance between the bottom and top of this sea is as much as the distance between two skies, on which there are huge mountains, the top and bottom of which is from one sky to the other. up to the sky, which is as much as the distance. Then on top of them is the Throne. The distance between the bottom and the top of the Throne is the distance from one sky to another. God is above that.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Sunnah: 17; İbn Mâce, Mukaddime: 27) b. Humayd said: Yahya b. I heard Main say: Abdurrahman b. Said must perform the pilgrimage so that this hadith is heard from him. This hadith is hasan garib. Walid b. Abu Sevr narrated a similar hadith from Simak as merfu. Sharik, on the other hand, narrates a part of this hadith as maquf without being merfu. Abdurrahman, Ibn Abdullah b. He is the son of Sa'd er Razi.
3639-) Abdurrahman b. Abdullah b. Sa'd er Razî ed Deşteki (radiy-Allâhu anh) reported from his father: I saw a man in a black turban riding a mule in Bukhara. He said, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made me wear this turban." (Abu Dawud, Libas: 27)
3640-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said about the word "Kalmühl": "Like the residue of oil". When he brings it close to his face, the skin of his face will fall into it. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We know only from the narration of Rishdin.
3641-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not recite anything from the Qur'an to the jinn and he did not see the jinn either. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) set out with a group of his Companions to the Ukaz fair. There was a barrier between the devils and the news of the sky, and the falling stars were sent on the devils who were trying to get news. When the demons returned to their people, they said what happened to you. They said: “A barrier was built between us and the celestial news, and the stars that flowed on us were sent” and they continued as follows: A barrier was definitely built between us and the celestial news because of a job, so travel around the east and west of the earth. Determine what this thing is that draws a barrier between you and the celestial news. So they began to wander the eastern and western parts of the earth, looking for what this thing was that was pulling a barrier between them and the celestial news. The people of the devils who were going to the Tihame region, were about to go to the Ukaz fair, and they came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in Nahle. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) was leading his Companions in the morning prayer. When they heard the Qur'an, they listened to him and said, "By Allah, this is what came between you and the news of the sky." Then they returned to their own people and said: O our people. We listened to an interesting Qur'an that showed the right path and we believed in it. We will no longer associate anything or anyone with our Lord. Thereupon, Allah revealed the surah Jinn to his prophet. Only the word of the jinn was revealed to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam).
3642-) It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that he said in the same deed. The word of the Jinn to their own people was as follows: (Surah Jinn, verse 19) “Indeed, when the servant of Allah, Muhammad, stood up to worship his Lord, the unbelievers would almost descend upon him, or the jinn would almost crush each other because of the overcrowding with their desire and greed to listen to the Qur'an. ” When they saw that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was praying and his Companions were following his prayer and prostrating himself with his prostration, they were astonished at the degree of obedience by his Companions and said to their people: "Truly, Muhammad, the servant of Allah; When he got up to worship his Lord, the unbelievers almost fell on him.” (Bukhari, Adhan: 27; Muslim, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan.
3643-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Jinn used to ascend to the sky and listen to the revelation. When they heard a word, they would add nine lies. That word they heard was true, and what they added was false. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sent as a prophet, they were prevented from sitting and listening in the sky. They transferred this situation to the demon. Before the Prophet was sent, stars were not cast to drive out demons. Iblis said to them: "This blocking was definitely due to an event that took place on earth." Then he sent his demon soldiers. These soldiers; They found the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) standing between two mountains - I think in Mecca - standing in prayer, then they came to the devil and informed him. He said to Iblis: "This is what happened in the world." (Bukhari, Adhan: 27; Muslim, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan.
3644-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) talk about the interruption of the revelation and said: “While I was walking, I heard a voice from the sky and I immediately lifted my head and saw that Hira also told me. angel coming He sits on a pulpit between the sky and the earth. I was so excited and afraid of him, I immediately went home and Cover me! Cover me! Said. They also covered me. Thereupon, Allah revealed the first 5 verses of the chapter of Müddessir: “1) O Prophet, who was wrapped in his veil, rest and loneliness! 2) Get up and warn the people. 3) Announce the greatness of your Lord. Because greatness belongs only to Him. 4) Keep your dress, skirt, body, personality, heart clean from all kinds of dirt and moral deficiencies. 5) Avoid all kinds of filth and evil.” These verses were before the prayer was made obligatory. (Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Ebî Katîr, Ebû Seleme b. He narrated this hadith to us from Abdurrahman and Jabir. Abu Salama's name is Abdullah.
3645-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) mentioned in the 17th verse of the chapter of Muddessir, “Saud” = a mountain of fire that the unbeliever ascends continuously for seventy years and descends for seventy years. so it goes on. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. As Merfu, we know it through the narration of Ibn Lehia. It has been narrated from Abu Said as a similar mawkuf.
3646-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), some Jews said to some of the Companions of the Prophet: "Does your prophet know the number of the keepers of Hell?" they said. They said, "We cannot know without asking our Prophet." Thereupon, a man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “O Prophet! Today your companions have been defeated.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "What is it that they were defeated for?" Man: “Jews; Does your Prophet know the number of the guardians of Hell?" they said. We said: "We cannot know until we ask the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)". (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When a people are asked about something they do not know; Is it possible to be defeated by saying that we cannot know without asking the prophet? But the Jews asked their prophets and even said to show us Allah clearly. Bring the enemy of Allah to me, and I will make them a palace from the soil of Paradise, which is "To collect". (It means fine soil or fine flour.) When the Jews came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), they said: "O Ebe'l Qasim! How many hell's watchers are there?" The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said this and that much, ten times one time and nine times the next. They said "yes" too. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked them, “What is the land of Paradise?” said. They fell silent and O Eb'el Qasim! "It is bread." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Bread is made of "collecting." (Musnad: 14354) This hadith is garib. We know the hadith in this way through the narration of Mucalid.
3647-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said the following about the part of Muddassir verse 56: “He is the one who will be feared from the punishment of Allah and found a way through his own book”: Allah says: Whoever feels responsible for me and finds his way through my book and does not know another god with me, I am worthy of forgiveness. (Ibn Mâce, Zuhd: 27; Dârimî Rıkak: 17) This hadith is strange. Süheyl is not a solid person in Hadith. Suhayl narrated this hadith alone from Thabit.
3648-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to move his tongue to memorize when verses and surahs were revealed from the Qur'an. Thereupon, Allah revealed the 16th verse of the chapter of Qiyamah: “O Prophet! Do not move your tongue to hastily memorize and memorize the revelation that has come down to you.” Said b. Jubayr says: He used to make his lips move with the verses of the Qur'an. Sufyan moved his lips to describe it. (Bukhari, Bad-il Vahy: 27; Muslim, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. al Medîni, Yahya b. Narrated by Said, he said: Sûfyan es Sevrî; Musa b. He used to remember ebî Âisha well.
3649-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The lowest of the heavens in terms of degrees is a person; He sees his gardens, wives, servants and armchairs spread over a distance of a hundred years. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said; Surah Qiyamah 22-23. He read the verse: “Some faces will shine with happiness that day as they look at their Lord.” (Musnad: 4395) This hadith is garib. Many people have narrated the same hadith from Israel as merfu. Abdulmalik b. Ebjar, on the other hand, narrated it as the word of Ibn Umar without merfu from Suwayr.
3650-) It was narrated as the word of Ibn Omar in Eshca'i, without merfu from Sufyan, Suveyr, and Mucalid. We do not know that anyone else said "From Mucalid" in the hadith of this hadith. Similarly, Abu Kureyb transmitted this hadith to us from Sufyan, Suveyr (who is known as Ebû Cehm) through Ubeydullah el Eşcaî. Fahite's name is Said b. Relevance.
3651-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: Surah Abese was revealed about A'ma Ibn Umm Maktum. Amama came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and began to say: "O Messenger of Allah! Guide me.” There was one of the notables of the polytheists with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) turned away from A'ma and turned to the other and said: "Do you see any harm in what I say?" He was also saying, “No”. This surah was revealed about this event. (Muvatta, Nida-is Salat: 27) This hadith is strange. this hadith by Hisham b. They narrate from Urwa and his father. Urwa said: Surah Abasa was revealed about Ibn Ummi Maktum. He did not mention Aisha in the hadith.
3652-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: People will gather in the place of Mahshar, barefooted and uncircumcised. Then a woman asked: Will one of us look at the other and see? said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "O so-and-so woman!" said. He recited the 37th verse of the chapter of Abese: "On that day, every person will have enough trouble and preoccupation." (Bukhari, Rikak: 27; Muslim, Jannat: 17) This hadith is hasan. It has also been narrated from Ibn Abbas in a different way. Said b. Jubayr is also one of those who narrated this hadith. A hadith was also narrated from Aisha on this subject.
3653-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever makes him happy to see the sights of the Hour as if he saw it with his own eyes, let him recite the suras “Takvir, Infitar and Inshikak”. (Musnad: 4575) This hadith is hasan garib. b. Yusuf and others narrated this hadith with this isnad and said: "Whoever wants to see the sights of the Day of Judgment as if he saw it with his own eyes and is happy about it, let him read the chapter "Takvir". They did not mention the Surahs of Inshik and Inshik.
3654-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: If a servant commits a mistake, a black dot will be placed on his heart. If he withdraws from that sin, asks for forgiveness, repents and turns to Allah, his heart will be polished. If he does not do these things and continues to sin and mistake, the black point will increase and eventually cover his whole heart. Here is Allah's in the 14th verse of the chapter of Mutaffifin: "Their hearts are rusted because of what they have done." This is the pass he said. (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3655-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh); -Hammad said that this hadith is like merfu in our opinion. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Paradise: 17)
3656-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “On that day, people will stand before the Lord of the worlds.” They said about the verse: Each of them will be covered in sweat up to half their ears. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Jannat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Huraira on this subject.
3657-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “If anyone has a dispute about his account and there is an investigation about his account, it will be destroyed.” Thereupon, O Messenger of Allah! Inshikak Surah 7-8. in the verses: "Whoever will be given his record in his right hand, his account will be easily seen." Doesn't he order? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "It is the earth, not the calculation." (Bukhari, Science: 27; Muslim, Jannat: 17) This hadith is hasan.
3658-) Suveyd b. Nadr, Abdullah b. Through Mubarak, Osman b. They have conveyed a similar hadith to us with this deed from Aswad.
3659-) Muhammed b. Eban and others narrated to us a similar hadith from Ayyub, Ibn Abi Mulayke, and Aisha through Abdulwahhab es-Sakafi.
3660-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), it is narrated that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever is brought to account will be punished.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We know only this form of Qatada's narration from Enes.
3661-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said in Surah Bürüc 2-3. While interpreting his verses, he said: "Yevm-ul maw'ud" is the Day of Judgment. The day of "Mashhud" is the day of Arafah. The "witness" is Friday, the sun neither rises nor sets on a day superior to Friday. There is a time on Friday when a believing servant coincides with this hour and prays to Allah for good, Allah will definitely accept his prayer. And if he takes refuge in Allah from anything, Allah will protect him from whatever he takes refuge in. (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3662-) Ali b. Hucr, Qur'an b. Through Temam el Esedî, Musa b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Ubayda with this deed. b. Ubeyde er Rebzi is known as Abu Abdulaziz. Yahya and others spoke about this person in the direction of his memory. Shu'ba, Thawri and many hadith imams narrated hadiths from him. This hadith is hasan garib. Only Musa b. We know from the narration of Ubayda. Musa b. Ubayda is considered weak in hadith. Yahya b. Said and others considered weak.
3663-) According to the narration from Suheyb (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) one day, after performing the afternoon prayer, pretended to speak by moving his lips. Thereupon, O Messenger of Allah! it was said. You moved your lips when you performed the afternoon prayer. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "One of the prophets was astonished by the size of his ummah and said, "Who will arrange their affairs?" Allah also revealed to that prophet: He said, "Let me know whether I will punish them or I will instruct others to overtake them." They too chose to be punished by God. Thereupon, Allah sent death to them, and seventy thousand people died in one day.” When (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) narrated this hadith, he narrated another hadith and said: There was a king among the kings. This king had an oracle in charge. Send me an understanding and intelligent adult child to this prophetic king so that I can teach him my knowledge, I am afraid that I will die and there will be no one among you who knows this knowledge. They found a special child and ordered him to go to the soothsayer and learn from him. The boy began to come and go to the oracle. On the way of the boy, there was a priest who lived in the monastery -Ma'mer says: Those who were in the monastery that day were Muslims, I think. Every time the boy was going to and from the oracle, he would stop by this priest and ask some questions. He continued until the boy learned the following words from the priest: The priest said: “I am serving Allah”. Thereupon, this boy began to have too much fun with the priest and to be late to the oracle. The oracle sent a message to the child's family saying: "He almost did not come near me". The child reported this to the priest. And if the oracle says, where were you, you would say I was with my family. If your family says where were you, you say I was with the oracle. While the boy was going on like this, he stopped by a large group of people on the way that an animal - some say he was a lion - had cut their way and kept them there. The boy took a stone in his hand and before he threw it, he said: "O my God, if what the priest said is true, I want me to kill this animal with this stone," and he threw the stone and killed the animal. Everyone said, "Who killed him?" “He killed the boy,” it said. People said with great excitement, "This young man knows the sciences that no one else knows." A blind man heard this news and said: "If you make my eyes see me, I will give you so much and so much." Young: "I don't want money from you, if you get your sight, would you consider believing in the person who gave you his eye?" said. He said “yes” to my A. Thereupon, the young man prayed to Allah, and Allah opened his eyes. But; He believed in God. These events reached the king, and the king brought them all with him. “I will kill you all with different deaths,” he said. He put a saw on the heads of priests and saints, cut one off and killed the other in a different way. Inside, the boy gave the command: "Take him to the top of the mountain or something and throw him from there." They took the young man to that mountain, when they wanted to throw him out of that mountain, they fell one after another from that mountain and perished, only the young man was left alone and returned to the king's side. Thereupon the king; He ordered this young man to be taken to a sea and thrown there. God immersed them in water and saved the young man. You cannot shoot me and kill me unless the young king came to the king and crucified me and said with your arrow I am throwing in the name of the Lord of this young man in front of the people. Thereupon, the king gave an order, and the young man was crucified. Then the king took his arrow and said, "I shoot in the name of the Lord of this young man," and killed him with an arrow. When he was hit by an arrow, the young man put his hand on his temple and died. Meanwhile, people knew information that this young man did not know. They said, "We also believe in his Lord." It was said that the people around the king were worried because three people opposed your being the Lord, all the people turned against you and believed in the boy's Lord. The king had ditches dug and filled the trenches with wood and made fires lit, and he gathered the people and declared: Whoever does not apostatize will be thrown into this fire, and then he began to throw people into these fire pits. Thereupon, Allah said in chapter 4-8 of Bürüc. He revealed his verses: “4) Down with those who dig ditches on the ground and light a fire to burn Muslims. 5) It is such a fire that it burns in flames. 6) When those oppressors used to sit by the fire and 7) watch the torment and torture they inflicted on the believers. 8) They took revenge on those believers only because they believed in Allah, the mighty and worthy of praise.” As for the boy, he was buried in the ground. Umar b. It is said that in the time of Hattab, this young man was exhumed from his grave with his hand on his temple. (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan garib.
3664-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), it was said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: I have been ordered to fight against these people until they say, "There is no god but Allah". When they say this, they protect their property and life from me. However, Allah's right is beyond this. He said, "God will see their accounts," and he said, Surah Gashiya 21-22. He read the verses: “21) This is how it is, O Prophet! Advise them, your duty is only to counsel. 22) You are not able to force them to believe and bring them to faith by force.” (Musnad: 13627) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3665-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was asked about the 3rd verse of Surah Fajr, and he said: “Prayer is meant here. Because some of the prayers are double rak'at. (Musnad: 19072) This hadith is garib as Qatada's narration. Likewise, this hadith is from Qatada, Khalid b. He narrated hadith in Kays al-Hudani.
3666-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Zam'a (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) talked about the Prophet Salih's camel and the person who killed it, and said: “When the most corrupt among them stood up to kill the camel.” (Sura Shams verse 12) A strong-backed man among the most corrupt and fierce group of society rose up to kill a young camel like Abu Zam'a. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) talked about women and said: "For what purpose does any of you whip his wife like a slave whips and maybe takes her to bed at the end of the day?" Then, advising his Companions over their laughter about blowing, he said: "Why is one of you laughing because of something he has done himself?" (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Jannat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3667-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We were at a funeral in the cemetery of Baki, and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) came and sat down. We sat with him, he had a stick in his hand. He was confusing the place with her. Then he raised his head towards the sky and said: “The destination of every living thing in Heaven and Hell is definitely written.” Thereupon, the Companions said: O Messenger of Allah! So shouldn't we endure this fate? Because a benevolent person will do good deeds. Those who will be unfortunate will also strive for unhappiness. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “On the contrary, do good deeds and everyone will easily achieve what they were created for. Good deeds will be brought easily to those who are among the people of goodness. He said that evil will be brought easily to those who are among the people of evil.” He read the verses: “5) Whoever among you spends for others and tries to find his way through the Book of Allah 6) and that one approves and confirms the most beautiful word, kalima-i-tawhîd, or confirms the existence of Paradise or accepts the religion of Islam, 7) now he We will facilitate the easiest way and make it successful on that way. 8) Whoever among you is stingy and does not spend his wealth on others, and thinks that he is self-sufficient and does not need to worship and seek refuge in Allah, 9) denies kalima-i tawhîd or Paradise or the religion of Islam 10) he will also find the way to hardship, difficulty and distress. We will make it easy.” (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 27; Muslim, Destiny: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3668-) According to a narration from Jundub al-Beceli (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in a raid. The finger of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) bled during this raid, and he said: You are only a bleeding finger, all things are in the way of Allah. al-Bajali says: Jibrilin's visit to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was delayed. Thereupon, the polytheists said: Muhammad was abandoned by his Lord. In Allah, the 3rd verse of Surah Duha; He sent down the verse, "Your Lord has neither abandoned you nor been offended". (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Jihad: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. and Sevrî reported this hadith Esved b. They narrated from Qays.
3669-) Malik b. It was narrated from Sa'sa (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “While I was in a state between sleep and wakefulness, I heard him say one of three people near the Ka'ba. Then a gold basin containing Zamzam water was brought to me. Then my sky was split from here to there.” Qatada says: Enes b. I asked Malik: "What does he mean?" Enes said: "He means to the bottom of my stomach". “Then he took out my heart and washed my heart with zamzam water. Then my heart was replaced. Then it was filled with faith and wisdom.” This hadith is longer than this one. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan.
3670-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), who said: Who read the last verse of this surah by reciting the chapter of Tîn: "Isn't Allah the best, the most beautiful, the most just of those who rule?" when he read, “Yes, he is the most superior and just of the judges. I'm a witness to that too." (Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 27) This hadith is only transmitted from this A'rabî through Abu Huraira. The name of this Bedouin has not been disclosed.
3671-) It is narrated from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “We also call the demons, who are our angels of punishment.” (Surat al-Alaq 18) He said about the verse: "Abu Jahl said, "If I see Muhammad praying, I will definitely step on his neck." Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If Abu Jahl had done such a thing, the angels would have snatched him up and fled.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 17) This hadith is hasan garib.
3672-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) was praying, Abu Jahl came and said, "Didn't I forbid you from doing this? Didn't I ban you from this job?" said. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) finished the prayer, he treated Abu Jahl harshly. Thereupon, he said: "You know Abu Jahl very well that there is no assembly in Mecca more crowded than my assembly." Thereupon, Allah, 17-18 of Surah Alaq. He sent down the verses: “17) Now let him call his followers and ask for help. 18) We will also call the demons, who are our angels of punishment.” (Musnad: 2207) Abbas said: If Abu Jahl had called his council, God's demons would have caught him and snatched him away. This hadith is hasan garib authentic. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Huraira on this subject.
3673-) Yusuf b. According to the narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), he said: Hasan b. After Ali paid allegiance to Muawiya, a man stood up and said to him: "You have blackened the faces of the believers" or "O you who blackened the faces of the believers". Thereupon, Hasan replied: May Allah forgive you, do not condemn me. Then, the chapter of Kevser was revealed to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). That is, a river in Paradise is meant. At the same time, the chapter of al-Qadr was revealed. This surah is the reign of the Umayyads. He says: We calculated the reign of the Umayyads, and saw that it was neither one day more nor one day less than a thousand months. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. But this is how we know it. Kasim b. As the Fadl narration, at the same time, in the deed of this hadith, Qasim b. Yusuf b. It is also called Mazin. Kasim b. Fadl al-Khudani is a reliable person. Abdurrahman b. Mahdi and Yahya b. Said said that he was a reliable person. Yusuf b. Sa'd is an unknown person. We know this hadith with this wording only in this way.
3674-) Zirr b. According to the narration from Hubaysh (radiyallahu anh), he said: Ubay b. To Ka'b (radiyallahu anh): Your brother in religion Abdullah b. Mas'ud: I said, "The person who evaluates the whole year says that he will come across the night of power". Ubey b. Ka'b replied: "May Allah forgive Abu Abdurrahman, he knows that the night of Qadr is in the last ten days or the twenty-seventh day of Ramadan. However, he wanted Muslims not to rely only on this night. Then Ubay b. Ka'b swore that the night of power is the twenty-seventh night without exception.” Thereupon, he said to him: “O Abu Munzir! On what basis do you say that?" said. He said: “With the verse and sign that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) told us; The sun does not rise bright that day.” (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3675-) Muhtar b. According to the narration from Fülfül (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Enes b. I heard Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh) say: A man said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), “O the best of creatures”. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "He is Ibrahim". (Muslim, Fedail: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Sunnah: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3676-) Ali b. Hucr, Ali b. Mukhtar b. Fülfül and Enes conveyed a similar hadith to us.
3677-) It was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh). He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about the 4th verse of the chapter of Zilzal: What is his news? do you know? The Companions said, "Allah and His Messenger know better." Thereupon, they said: “The news of the world is that it bears witness about itself. On such and such a day, such and such a person will say that he did such and such a job. This is the news of the earth.” (Musnad: 8512) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3678-) Abdullah b. It is narrated from Shihhir (radiy-Allâhu anh): When Abdullah arrived at the assembly of the Prophet, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The delusion of the multitude distracted you.” He was reading the verse (Takasur sura 1.). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Son of Adam, my property is my property. But what else do you consume, devour, wear and wear out of your wealth by giving alms to you?” (Muslim, Zuhd: 27; Nesâî, Vesâyâ: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3679-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Shu'ba through Cafer with the same deed.
3680-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: We continued to doubt about the torment in the grave, and finally, "The delusion of the multitude distracted you." His verses were downloaded. Kurayb once said, "Amr b. from Abi Qays”, who is known as Razi. Amr b. Kays el Melâî is from Kufa. Again, in the deed of the same hadith, “Ibn ebî Leyla and Minhal b. He also said from "Amr". (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib.
3681-) Zubayr b. According to the narration from Avvam (radiyallahu anh), Zubayr said about the 8th verse of the chapter of al-Takasur: O Messenger of Allah! What blessing is the blessing we will be asked? These consist of two blacks; Dates and water… This will definitely happen. (Ibn Majah, i Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan.
3682-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the 8th verse of the chapter of al-Takasur was revealed, the Companions asked: "O Messenger of Allah, from which bounties will we be questioned?" “These are two black things; Our enemy is before us, and our swords are on our shoulders.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "This will definitely happen." (Tirmidhi narrated.) Ibn Uyeyna's Muhammad b. I think the narration from Amr is more authentic than this narration. Sûfyan b. In terms of hadith, Abu Bakr b. He is a more hafiz and a narrator than a drunkard.
3683-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The first thing you will be asked about on the Day of Judgment is, have we not made your body healthy? And didn't we make you drink cold water? is called.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Abdurrahman b. He is the son of Arseb. Also known as Ibn Arzem. Ibn Arzem's narration is more robust.
3684-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about Surah Kevser: It is a river in Paradise. There are pearl domes on both sides. O Jibril, what is this? said; “This is the Kevser God has given you,” he said. (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3685-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “While I was wandering in Paradise, I was shown a river with domes on both sides of which were covered with pearls. I asked the angel in charge what is this? He said, "This is Kevser that Allah will give you." Then he touched the mud of the river with his hand and brought out the musk. Then they took me to Sidret-ül Münteha, where I saw a great light.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has been reported in different ways.
3686-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “Kevser is a river in Paradise; Its two shores are golden. The bed of the river is made of pearls and rubies. Its soil is sweeter than musk, its water sweeter than honey and whiter than snow.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3687-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar used to ask me some issues along with the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); Abdurrahman b. Avf said to Omar: "We have as many sons as he does, do we still ask him?" Omar said: "We ask him from the way you know." Then, he asked Ibn Abbas about the chapter of Nasr, and he said: "In this chapter, Allah informed him that the life of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) was over," and he read the chapter to the end. Umar said to him, "I know only you know about this surah." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3688-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Shu'ba and Abu Bishr through Cafer. In this narration, Abdurrahman b. Avf says: "Are we going to ask him when we have as many children as he does?"
3689-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went up to Safa Hill one day and shouted Ya Sabahah (Attention attention). The Quraysh then gathered around him. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I am a warner sent from a severe torment. What would you say if I told you that the enemy would come and raid you in the evening and morning? Would you certify me? Abu Lahab: “Is this why you gathered us here? Your hands will be broken and you will be damned.” Thereupon, Allah revealed the chapter of Lahab: “May Abu Lahab's hands be broken and be damned. All his means have been destroyed and he will be destroyed, he has already wronged himself, he was devastated, he disappeared!…” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul-Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Iman: 17) This hadith is hasan.
3690-) Ubey b. It is narrated from Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh): The polytheists said to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) “Inform us about your Lord and give us information about your lineage,” so Allah sent down the chapter of Ikhlas: “Samed” He was not born, he did not give birth. The servant is a master worthy of being a slave. Everyone who is born will surely die. The legacy of all who died will also be shared. If God is; does not die and cannot be inherited. Nothing is equal or similar to it. There is no being like him. (Musnad: 20372)
3691-) According to the narration from Abu'l 'Aliya (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) talked about the gods of the polytheists, and they said, “Tell us about the lineage of your Lord. Thereupon, Jibril revealed this surah. (Musnad: 20372) b. Humayd narrated a similar hadith to us and said, “Ubay b. He did not say "From Ka'b". This hadith is the name of Abu Sa'd, Muhammad b. Müyesser. Abu Cafer er Razi's name is Isa. Ebû'l Âliye's name is Rüfey. He was a slave and Sabiye's wife freed him.
3692-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) looked at the moon and said: “O Aisha! Take refuge in Allah from the evil of this, because when its light is removed, it is dark.” (Musnad: 24619) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3693-) Ukbe b. According to the narration from Amir al-Juheni (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: The chapters of Nas and Felak…” (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 27; Nesai, İftitah: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3694-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When Allah created Adam and blew into him from his spirit, Adam sneezed and said Alhamdulillah, by Allah's leave, he praised Allah. . His Lord said to him: “May Allah have mercy on you. Go to the angels or this group of angels and say: "Assalamu alaikum". And they said: "wa aleykumsalam ve Rahmatullah". Then Adam turned to his Lord, and his Lord said: "This is your greeting and the greeting that your sons will give and receive among themselves." ta'ala: With both palms closed, he commanded Adam to choose whichever one you want. Adam said, 'I have chosen the right hand of my Lord. Both hands of my Lord are blessed and blessed. Then the Lord opened his right hand, and in it was Adam and his seed. O Lord, who are they? These are from your offspring. What should Adam see? Every person's life is written between his two eyes. Among them was one of their brilliance or brilliance; O Lord, who is this? she asked. This is your son David. I wrote him forty years of life. He said, O Lord, increase his life. He said, "God, I wrote him so much life." Adem, I donated sixty years of my life to him. Allah said: You and him, you know. Then Adam was placed in Paradise, as Allah wished. Then he was brought down from Heaven to earth. Then Adam was counting his life. When the angel of death came to him and wanted to take his life, Adam; He said to the angel of death that you rushed. A thousand years of life has been written for me. Angel of death: Yes, but you gave your son David sixty years. Adam could not remember and forgot, that's why he forgets the ummah. Since that day, writing and witnesses have been commanded.” (Verse 115 of Surah Taha) (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. in a different way, from Abu Huraira, Zayd b. It was narrated similar to the narration of Eslem and Abu Salih.
3695-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: When Allah created the earth, the earth began to shake. Then God created mountains. He placed them on the earth, and the shaking of the earth stopped. (Surat an-Nahl, verse 15) The angels were amazed at the weight of the mountains, and O Lord! “Is there anything in your creations stronger than mountains?” they said. Allah said: "Yes, iron" He said. Angels: "O Lord, is there anything stronger than iron?" they said. Allah said: "Fire". Angels: "O Lord, is there anything stronger than fire in what you have created?" they said. God said: "Water". Angels: “Is there anything stronger than water? they said. And Allah said: "The wind". Angels: Is there anything in your creations more powerful than the wind? they said. Allah said: “Yes, it is the son of man who hides what he gives with his right hand from his left hand.” (Musnad: 24619) This hadith is garib. As Merfu, we only know this way.
3696-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “There is nothing better than supplication to Allah.” (Ibn Majah, Dua: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith as merfu only through the narration of Imran al-Kattan. Imran al Kattan is Ibn Dawud. He is known as Ebû'l Avvam.
3697-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Abdurrahman b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us with this deed from Imran al-Kattan through the Mahdi.
3698-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Dua is the marrow, brain and essence of worship.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in this form and we know it only through the narration of Ibn Lehia.
3699-) Numân b. According to the narration from Bashir (radiyallahu anh): The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Dua is worship." Then he recited verse 60 of the chapter of believers: “But your Lord says: “Pray to me and I will answer your prayer. Undoubtedly, those who are arrogantly afraid to serve Me will enter Hell in disgrace.” (Ibn Majah, Dua: 27) This hadith is hasan. He also narrated this hadith from A'mesh and Zarr. We know this hadith only through the narration of Dharr. Zarr Abdullah al-Hamadani. He is a trusted one. Umar b. He is Zerr's father.
3700-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever does not pray without asking Allah, Allah will be angry with that person.” (Ibn Majah, Dua: 17) Vekî' and others have narrated this hadith from Abu'l Melih. We know this hadith only in this way. Abu'l Melih's name is Sabih. I heard from Muhammad that he was saying: Abu'l Melih is also called Persian.
3701-) Ishaq b. Mansur, through Abu Asim, Humayd b. He narrated similarly from Abu'l Melih, Abu Salih and Abu Huraira.
3702-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Busr (radiyallahu anh). A man said: “O Messenger of Allah! The supererogatory worships of Islam were heavy for me, give me something I can do constantly so that I can hug him. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "Your tongue should stay moist by constantly remembering Allah." (Ibn Majah, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
3703-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked: "Which of the servants is superior to Allah in terms of rank on the Day of Judgment?" The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: : “It is men and women who always keep Allah on the agenda.” “O Messenger of Allah! Is he better than a veteran who fights in the way of Allah?” said. They said: "The person who keeps Allah on the agenda at all times and everywhere is more valuable in terms of rank, even if he strikes the unbelievers and polytheists until his sword is broken and he is covered in blood." (Musnad: 11295) This hadith is garib. We know this hadith only through the narration of Derraj.
3704-) According to the narration from Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Beware! Shall I inform you of something better than distributing gold and silver, the best of your deeds in the sight of Allah, and something higher in rank, better than meeting the enemy and beating their necks and theirs yours? The Companions said: “Yes”. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is to always remember Allah and keep him on the agenda." b. Cebel said: “The best thing to save a person from Allah's punishment is to remember Allah at all times and on all grounds, and not to leave them on the agenda.” (Ibn Mace, Adab: 27) Some of them reported this hadith as Abdullah b. They narrated from Said in a similar way in the same deed. Others have narrated it as mursal.
3705-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira and Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a group of people gather in one place and try to learn about Allah in order to keep them on the agenda, angels will surround them. . Allah's mercy covers them and peace descends upon them, and Allah remembers them with the angels in His presence." (Ibn Majah, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3706-) Yusuf b. Yakup, Hafs b. By quoting from Shu'ba through Umar, from Abu Ishaq, they said: I heard Abu Muslim Eghar saying: I am witness to what Abu Said and Abu Hurayra narrated, they both said such a hadith of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). They were witnesses by passing it on to us.
3707-) According to what is reported from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: One day, Muawiya went to the mosque and what is the reason that made you sit here with a group of people? she asked. They said: "We sit down to learn about our religion in order to remember Allah's blessings, keep it on the agenda and gain his approval." Muawiya: "By Allah, is this the reason why you are sitting here?" said. And they said: "By God, we are sitting here for this reason only." Muawiya: Be careful, I did not ask you for an oath because I implicated you. There is no one who is at my level of closeness to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and who narrates hadith less than me. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) went to a group of his companions and said: "What is the reason that makes you sit in this group?" he had asked. They said, "We sat down to remember Allah and praise Him, and to praise and thank Him for guiding us to Islam, for treating us with His grace and giving us all kinds of blessings." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "By Allah, is that the only reason that made you sit down?" They said: "By Allah, this is the reason why we sit down." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Be careful, I have not asked you to take an oath because of an accusation against you. However, Jibril came to me and informed me that Allah was proud of you before the angels.” (Muslim, Zikir: 27; Nesai, Adab-ül Kudat: 17) the hadith is hasan garib. But this is how we know it. The name of Abu Neame es Sa'di was Amr b. is Jesus. The name of Abu Osman en Nehdi is Abdurrahman b. It's Mell.
3708-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a community sits in a place where they do not remember Allah and do not send salawat on their Prophet, that meeting will increase their sins and become a burden on them. If Allah wills, He will punish them, and if He wills, He will forgive them.” (Musnad: 9213) This hadith is hasan. The hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira in other ways. The meaning of the word “Dash” mentioned above means regret and harm. According to Arab scholars, this means sin and trouble.
3709-) Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh) heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “As every Muslim prays to God, God fulfills his wish and wipes out a similar evil from him. This prayer continues as long as it is not for sin and for severing ties with relatives.” (Musnad: 14350) Abu Said and Ubade b. A hadith has also been narrated from Samit.
3710-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever pleases that his prayer is accepted by Allah in times of trouble and distress, let him increase his prayer in times of abundance and comfort.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib.
3711-) Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh) heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: The most valuable dhikr is “Lailahe illallah”. The most valuable prayer is "Alhamdilillah". (Ibn Majah, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan garib and is only written by Musa b. We know from the narration of Abraham. b. al-Madini and many others reported this hadith from Musa b. They narrated from Ibrahim.
3712-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) always remembered Allah at all times and everywhere and always kept him on his agenda.” (Muslim, Hayz: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Tahara: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Yahya b. Zechariah b. We know from the narration of ebî Zaide. Behiy's name is Abdullah.
3713-) Ubey b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiyallahu anh); Whenever the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) remembered someone and prayed, he would start with himself first. (Muslim, Fedail: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Huruf: 17) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. Abu Katan's name was Amr b. It is Heysem.
3714-) Omar b. According to what was narrated from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) raised his hands in prayer, he would not lower them until he put them on his face.” Muhammed b. Musanna says in his own narration: "He would not bring them down unless he put them on his face." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is authentic. Only Hammad b. We know by the narration of Jesus. He narrated this hadith alone. This person has few hadith narrations. Some people have narrated hadiths from him. Hanzale b. Abi Sufyan said that he was a reliable person.
3715-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The prayer of one of you will be accepted if he does not hurry and says, “I prayed but my prayer was not accepted.” (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Zikir: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Ubayda's name is Sa'd. Abdurrahman b. He is the freed slave of Azhar. Abdurrahman b. It is also said that he was the freedman of Avf. Abdurrahman b. Azhar is Abdurrahman b. He is the son of Avf's uncle. A hadith has also been narrated from Anas (radiyallahu anh) on this subject.
3716-) Osman b. According to the narration from Affan (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Every day and every night, three times a person says: “As long as his name is mentioned and actions are taken on his behalf, he hears everything in the earth and in the sky, and nothing can harm him. In the name of Allah who knows…” nothing can harm him. Eban suffered a partial paralysis. While he was narrating this hadith, one of the audience started to look at him. Eban said to him: "What are you looking at?" The hadith is as I narrated to you. But I couldn't tell because the fate of Allah would come true for me on the day I got this disease. (Ibn Majah, Dua: 27) This hadith is authentic.
3717-) According to the narration from Sevban (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever said in the evening: I liked Allah as Lord, Islam as religion, Muhammad as Prophet, salat And peace be upon him”, it would be a right upon Allah to please this person. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
3718-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said in the evening: “We and the entire universe reached the evening thanks to Allah. All praise is due to Allah. There is no god but Him, only He alone, and He has no partner.” says: I think he also said the following on this subject: “The universe is entirely his own. All full accolades belong to him. He is all-powerful. O my God, I wish you the best tonight and the next nights. I seek refuge in you from the evil of this night and the following nights. I seek refuge in you from laziness and old age, and from the torment of Hell and the grave.” When he got up in the morning, he would recite this prayer: "We and the whole universe reached the morning thanks to Allah, and all praise is to Allah...". (Muslim, Dhikr: 27; Abu Dawud, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Shu'ba narrated this hadith from Ibn Mas'ud in the same vein, without merfu.
3719-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would teach his Companions to pray and say: “When you get up, say: “O Allah, we got up in the morning and evening with your permission and help, and he lives again with your permission and help. and we die, our return is to you. the same way when you leave: “My God, with your permission and help, we went out into the evening and we got up in the morning, and again with your permission and help, we live and die, our return is to you.” (Ibn Majah, Dua: 27) This hadith is hasan.
3720-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Abu Bakr: O Messenger of Allah! Teach me something to say morning and evening. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) also said: Say: "You are the one who knows everything that happens and no one can know. You are the creator of the heavens and the earth. You are the programmer and owner of everything and everyone's life. I bear witness that there is no true god but You. I seek refuge in You from the evil of myself, from the evil and shirk of Satan.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Say these in the morning and evening and when you lie down in bed." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3721-) Şeddâd b. According to the narration from Aws (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Shall I teach you the best way to ask for forgiveness?" He said: “My God, you are my Lord, there is no true god but You. You created me and I am your servant. I am keeping my promise to you and your promise to the best of my ability. I seek refuge in You from the evil of what I have done. Here I am in your presence with the blessings you have given, I am in your presence with my sins. Forgive me because only you can forgive sins.” Whoever among you says this in the evening and dies before morning comes, Paradise will be wâjib for him. If he says it in the morning and dies before evening, Paradise will be obligatory for that person. (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Nesai, Istiaze: 17) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Abu Hurayra, Ibn Mas'ud, Ibn Ebza and Burayda. This hadith is hasan garib. Abdulaziz b. Abi Hazim is the son of Abu Hazim, who was Zahid. This hadith is different from Shaddad b. It was also reported from Evs.
3722-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Shall I teach you some prayers to say when you go to bed? If you die the night you say them, you will die clean in nature, if you wake up in the morning, you will have won the morning; “My God, I surrendered my will to you, I turned my direction to you, fearing you and wanting you, I left my affairs to you, I leaned on you. It is only possible to escape from you and return to you. I believed in the book you sent down and the prophet you sent." Bara says: "I said to the Messenger you sent..." Thereupon, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) struck my chest and said; He also said "to the prophet you sent". (Bukhari, Voodoo: 27; Muslim, Zikir: 17) This hadith is hasan. It has also been narrated from Bara in different ways. Mansur b. Mu'temir, Sa'd b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Ubayda and Bara. But he made the following addition: "When you go to bed and you have wudu" Rafi' b. Hadith was also narrated from hadith.
3723-) Rafi' b. According to a hadith (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When one of you goes to bed, he should lie on his right side and say: “O Allah, I have surrendered my will to you, I have turned my direction towards you. I have my back on you. I left my business to you. Escaping from you is possible only by returning to you. I believed in your book and your messenger." If that person dies the night he says this, he will enter Paradise. (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is from Rafi' b. It is hasan garib as a hadîc narration.
3724-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray when he got into his bed: “Praise be to Allah, who fed us, made us drink, fed us, satisfied our needs, and sheltered us in our dwellings. There are many people who do not have anyone to meet their needs and who do not have a place of shelter.” (Muslim, Dhikr: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3725-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said three times when he went to bed: “There is no true god but He, the Almighty, who is always alive and does not need anyone else, asking forgiveness from Allah. I will repent to Him and turn to Him.” If he makes this prayer, Allah will forgive that person's sins, whether they are as much as the foam of the sea, the number of leaves on the trees, the number of sands in the desert, or the number of world days. (Musnad: 10652) This hadith is hasan garib. However, in this form, Vasafi Ubeydullah b. We know it as Walid's narration.
3726-) Huzeyfe b. According to a narration from Yeman (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wanted to sleep, he would put his hand under his head and say: “O Allah, protect me from your torment on the day when you gather your servants in the doomsday or raise them in the doomsday.” (Musnad: 22160) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3727-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was going to sleep, he would make a pillow with his right hand and say: "Protect me from your torment on the day when you will raise your servants in Judgment." (Musnad: 17742) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. He narrated this hadith from Abu Ishaq and Bara and did not mention anyone else between the two. Shu'ba narrates it to us from Abu Ishaq, Abu Ubayda and another person and from Bara. if; From Abu Ishaq, Abdulah b. It is narrated from Yazid and Bara. Israel, on the other hand, narrated this hadith similarly from Abu Ishaq, Abu Ubayda and Abdullah.
3728-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to order us to say when any of us went to bed: “O Allah, Lord of the heavens and the earth, our Lord and the grain of everything. and the one who splits the seed, the Torah, the Gospel and the Qur'an! I seek refuge in You from the evil of every evil, that the will of everything is in your hands. You are first, there is no being before you. After you, there is no existence. You are the manifest, there is no existence above you. You are your inner self, there is nothing beyond you. Make me pay off my debts and save me from poverty." (Muslim, Dhikr: 27; Abu Dawud, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3729-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), it was narrated that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you gets up from his bed and returns there, he should clean the inside of the bed with the hem of his dress three times, because who will occupy his place after him? He doesn't know what he's doing. When he lies down, let him say: O Lord, in your name, I put my side on the bed and with the strength and permission you give, I will lift my side from that bed. If you hold my soul, have mercy on it. If you are going to take my soul away, preserve it where you kept your righteous servants." When he wakes up, he should say: “Praise be to Allah, who has given my body health and well-being. Praise be to Allah, who has turned my soul back to me and allowed me to worship and serve.” (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Zikir: 17) Hadiths were also reported from Jabir and Aisha on this subject. The hadith of Hurayra is hasan. Some narrated this hadith and said: "Let him clean his bed with a piece of his dress."
3730-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would lie on his bed, he would bring his palms together and blow into them, reciting the chapters of Ikhlas, Felak and Nas, then he would rub them as far as his body could reach. He would start this work on his head and face, and he would do this three times. (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
3731-) Ferve b. According to the narration from Nawfal (radiyallahu anh), Ferwa came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: "O Messenger of Allah! Teach me something to say when I go to bed." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Read the surah of Kafirun, because this surah protects one from polytheism." Shu'ba said: In some narrations, Abu Ishaq said; He says "Read this surah" and in some of his narrations he says "Read it once". (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 27; Dârimî, Fedail: 17)
3732-) Musa b. Hizam, Yahya b. From Israel through Adam, from Abu Ishaq, from Ferve b. He narrated from Nawfal and his father, saying, "Nevfel came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ..." and conveyed a similar meaning to the hadith, which is more robust. Zuhayr reported this hadith from Abu Ishaq, Ferve b. He narrated from Nawfel and his father in a similar way to the one here. This narration is more appropriate and sounder than Shu'ba's narration. Abu Ishaq's men fell into confusion in this hadith. The hadith has also been narrated in another way. Abdurrahman b. Nawfel narrated from his father. Abdurrahman b. Ferve, Abdurrahman b. He is Nevfel's brother.
3733-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would not sleep until he recited the suras of Sajda and Mulk.” (Darimi, Fedail-ul-Qur'an: 27) Likewise, Sufyan and others have narrated this hadith from Lays, Abu'z Zubayr and Jabir in a similar way. Zuhayr relates this hadith from Abu'z Zubayr and says: I asked Abu'z Zubayr if you heard this hadith from Jabir. He replied: I did not hear it from Jabir, but I heard it from Safwan or Safwan's son. Shababe also reported this hadith Mughira b. It was narrated from Muslim, Abu'z Zubayr, and Jabir in a similar way to the hadith of Lays.
3734-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would not sleep until he recited Surah Zumer and Surah Isra.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.) b. Ismail informed me as follows: The name of Abu Lubabe; Marwan and Abdurrahman b. He is the freed slave of Ziyâd. Abu Lubabe heard a hadith from Aisha. Hammad b. Zayd also heard hadith from him.
3735-) Irbad b. It is narrated from Sariye (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would not sleep without reading the surahs called Musabbihat (Hadid, Hashr, Saff, Cuma, Tegabun and A'la), and he used to say: There are better than a thousand verses in these surahs. There is a verse.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan garib.
3736-) According to a narration from a man from Hanzeleogullari (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Shaddad b. I had been friends on a trip to Evs. He also said: “Watch out! Shall I teach you a prayer that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us to say? “My God, I ask you for perseverance in my affairs, I want you to be diligent and skillful on the right path, I want you to thank for your blessings, to worship and serve well, I ask you for a heart that finds the right language and peace. I seek refuge in you from the evil of every harmful thing you know. I wish you the best of every useful thing you know. I ask your forgiveness for every sin you know. Surely, you know the unseen that no one else knows." Shaddad said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When a Muslim recites a surah from the book of Allah when he is going to bed, Allah appoints an angel for that person and assigns him to protect him. Until he gets up, nothing that will harm him can come near him.” (Musnad: 16509) We know this hadith only in this way. Cüreyri, Said b. Iyas is Abu Mas'ud al Jureyri. Ebû'l Ala's name is Yazîd b. Abdullah b. He is Shihhir.
3737-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Fatimah complained that her hands were swollen because of grinding flour." And I said, "Go to your father and ask for a maid." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Be careful! Shall I show you something more beneficial to both of you than a maid? When you go to bed, say Alhamdulillah thirty-three times, Subhanallah thirty-three times, and Allahu Akbar thirty-four times.” This hadith is longer than here. (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Zikr: 17) As the narration of Ibn Avn, this hadith is hasan garib. The hadith was narrated from Ali in a different way.
3738-) It was narrated from Ali (radiyallahu anh) that he said: Fatima complained to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) that her hands were swollen due to housework and grinding flour. She said, "Subhanallah, Allahuakber. and he ordered to say Alhamdulillah.” (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Zikr: 17)
3739-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "There are two characteristics, whoever continues to these and dies by continuing his life as a Muslim, will enter Paradise. Note that these two things are very easy. But very few do these. Saying “subhanallah” ten times “Alhamdulillah” ten times and “Allahu Akbar” ten times after each prayer.” The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) showed this number ten with his hand. These are one hundred and fifty if they are said in five daily prayers. Since God gives ten to one for good deeds, he adds one thousand five hundred on the scales. The second feature: When you go to bed, thirty-three "Subhanallah" thirty-three "Alhamdulillah" thirty-three "Allahu Akbar" is one hundred. A hundred in this language, but a thousand on the scales. Which one of you commits two thousand five hundred sins in one day and night? Thereupon, the Companions said: "How can we shoot so much?" Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Satan comes and says remember that person or something or something until you leave the prayer. stays asleep. (Ibn Majah, Iqamat-us Salat: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. and Sevrî reported this hadith from Ata b. They narrated from Saib. As for A'mesh, he narrates this hadith in a short way than here. Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Thabit, Anas and Ibn Abbas.
3740-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) draw the rosary by counting his fingers. (Ibn Majah, Iqamat-us Salat: 27) This hadith is hasan garib as the narration of A'mesh.
3741-) Ka'b b. It is narrated from Ucre (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: There are some tasbihat that must be said at the end of fard prayers, so that those who do them are not harmed. Saying “Subhanallah” thirty-three times “Alhamdulillah” and “Allahu Akbar” thirty-four times after each prayer. (Muslim, Masajid: 27; Nesai, Sahv: 17) This hadith is hasan. b. Kays al-Mulai is a memory and trustworthy person. Shu'ba narrated this hadith without apologizing from the referee. Mansur b. Mu'temir, on the other hand, narrated it from the referee as merfu.
3742-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh), we are commanded to say “Subhanallah” thirty-three times “Alhamdulillah” thirty-four times “Allahu Akbar” thirty-three times at the end of each fard prayer. He saw one of the Ansar in his dream and said: Did the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) order you to say Subhanallah thirty-three times, Alhamdulillah thirty-three times and Allahu Akbar thirty-four times after obligatory prayers? He said: “Yes”. Ravi says: You can do these numbers twenty-five together with the danger you will bring at the end. The next day, he informed the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about this, and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "You can do that too." (Musnad: 20617)
3743-) Ubade b. According to the narration from Samit (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Whoever wakes up at night for any reason and does this prayer, his prayer will definitely be accepted. “There is no true god but Allah. However, there is only one God, Allah. He has no partner. Everything is his and he is omnipotent. I regard that Allah as great by being above all imperfections. All full accolades belong to him. There is no true deity other than Him. But he is. He is the greatest of God. All power and might belong to him,” he says, and then: “My Lord, forgive me, or if he makes any prayer he wishes, his prayer will be accepted. Then, if he tries a little harder and performs ablution and prays, his prayer will definitely be accepted.” (Bukhari, Friday: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. b. Amr (radiyallahu anh) said: Umayr b. The person called Hani used to pray a thousand prostrations and recite a hundred thousand tasbih every day. (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3744-) Rabia b. According to the narration from Ka'b al-Aslemî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I used to spend the night near the door of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and give him his ablution water. For a long time at night: “Semiallahu limen hamideh: Allah hears and hears this word of the one who praises and praises Him as He hears all other words.” I heard him say the words "Alhamdulillahi rabbil alamin (All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the worlds)" for a long time. (Muslim, Salat: 27; Abu Dawud, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3745-) Huzeyfe b. It is narrated from Yeman (radiyallahu anh). When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) wanted to sleep, he said: "O Allah, I die and resurrect in your name. (I sleep and wake up) And when I wake up: “Praise be to Allah, who gave me life after taking my soul (wakes me up after sleeping). Our resurrection and return after death is before him.” (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3746-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to say when he got up for prayer at night: "Praise be to Allah, you are the light of the heavens and the earth, all praise is for you. You are the sustainer of the heavens and the earth, you alone are worthy of praise. You are the one who puts in order the lives of the heavens and the earth and all things in between. You are a true god, and your promise will definitely come true. He will definitely have to meet you. Heaven is real. Hell is real. Doomsday will definitely happen. My God, I surrendered all my will to you, I believed in you, I trusted in you and I always turn to you, I fight the enemies with the power and strength you give and I only apply to your judgment. Forgive all my sins, secret and open, that I have committed and will commit. You are the only god I will serve, there is no god but you.” (Bukhari, Friday: 27; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith was narrated from Ibn Umar in a different way.
3747-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say after the night prayer: "O Allah, I ask for such a mercy from you that I can set my heart on the right path through that mercy. May you convey my messages, collect my affairs, put my messes in order, arrange my inner world and correct my outer world with it, and purify my deeds with it. May your righteousness inspire me, and I ask you for a mercy by which you will attract my closeness and protect me from all evil. O Allah, give me a firm belief that there will be no blasphemy after him, and a mercy that I can honor you in this world and in the hereafter. O Allah, I ask you to be saved on the day of judgment and forgiveness, to rise to the ranks of the witnesses, to live the life of happy people and to help you against the enemies. O Allah, I present my needs to You. Even though my vision is short and my deeds are weak, I am in need of your mercy. O Master of all affairs and healing all hearts, I want you to protect me from the torment of Hell and the torment of the grave and the torment of the grave, as you have protected the seas from mixing with each other. My God, even if my vision is short, even if I can't reach it with my intention, if there is something good that you promised to one of your servants or that one of your servants reaches, I ask from you, O Lord of the Worlds! I ask you for all kinds of mercy that I want and cannot reach. O Allah, you are the owner of the solid law and system. You are the owner of the straight works. On the day of punishment and threat, I ask you for security and Paradise on the day of eternity. Along with those who are close to you, martyrs, those who bow down and prostrate, and believers who keep their promises, you are merciful, loving and loved by your servants, and you do whatever you want. O Allah, make us one of those who lead us to the right path and on the right path, do not act from those who go astray. Make one of those who are friends for your friends and enemies for your enemies, so that we can love the one who loves you with your love. Let us oppose those who oppose you with your enmity. My God, this is our prayer. It is up to you to accept. Our effort is just that, that we rely on you. Light my grave, light my heart, give light from below me, give light to my eyes and ears, light to my hair and my head, give light to my skin and flesh, light to my blood and bones. O Allah, enlarge and increase my light. Light for me and create a light for me. O Allah, who is adorned with all kinds of strength and power, I praise you from all kinds of deficiencies. I praise my Lord, who is the owner of greatness and bounty, from all kinds of shortcomings. I praise only the person who is worthy of being praised. I praise the owner of abundant donations and blessings. I praise the owner of majesty and blessings. I praise Allah, the Almighty and the merciful, from all kinds of shortcomings.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange and we know it as such only through the narration of Ibn Abi Layla. and Sûfyan es Sevrî is a part of this hadith in Salama b. It was narrated from Küheyl, Kureyb and Ibn Abbas.
3748-) According to the narration from Abu Salama (radiyallahu anh), he said: I asked Aisha (radiyallahu anha) what prayer would she start her night prayer with. when he got up for the night prayer, he would start his prayer with the following prayer: (The prayer he recited instead of the prayer we read today as subhanake) “My God! O Lord of Gabriel, Mikail and Israfil, O creator of the heavens and the earth, my God, who knows everything known and the information called the unseen, which is not known to everyone. You will judge between your servants in every matter in which they differ. Keep me away from all disputes that are put forward as truth and guide me to the truth with your permission. Because you are the owner of the straight path.” (Muslim, Salat-ül Musafirin: 27; Nesai, Kıyam-ül Leyl: 17) This hadith is hasan garib.
3749-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abu Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up for prayer, he would say: “I have sincerely directed my direction to Allah, Who created the heavens and the earth. and I am not of the polytheists. My prayer and all my servitudes, my death and my life, are for Allah, the Lord of the worlds. He has no partners. This is how I was commanded to be, and I am a Muslim. O Allah, you are the ruler, there is no ruler but you. You are the one who programmed my life. I am also your servant. I have wronged my soul, I confessed my sins. Forgive all my sins, you are truly the forgiver of sins. Lead me to the most beautiful morals, indeed, you will direct me to the most beautiful morality. Evil is removed from me because only you can remove evil. I believe in you, how great and great you are, I ask your forgiveness and turn to you. When he arrived in Ruku, he would say: “My God, I only bowed down before you, believed in you, and surrendered my will to you. My ears, eyes, marrow, bones and all my nerves are in a state of love and fear and respect for you.” As soon as he lifted his head from bowing, he would say: “O my Lord, the heavens, the earth and the distances between them both used to say. and praise is due to you as much as you wish.” When he prostrated himself, he said: “My God, I only prostrated to you, I believed in you, I surrendered my will to you. My face prostrated to the One who created it and formed it and gave it ears and eyes. Allah, Who created everything in its most beautiful form, is the most beautiful of the beautiful and how blessed is it.” Then, between the tashahhud session and the salutation, he would say: “O Allah, forgive my sins, of which you know better than me what I put forward and delayed, what I did secretly and openly. (Nesai, Iftitah: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3750-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abu Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up for prayer, he would say: “I have sincerely turned my face to the One who created the heavens and the earth, and I am not one of the polytheists. Surely, my prayer and all my worship, my living and my dying, are for Allah, the Lord of the worlds. He has no partner. This is how I am commanded to speak and live. and i am a muslim. O Allah, you are the king, there is no true god but you. You are my Lord and I am your servant, I have wronged myself and confessed my sin. Forgive all my sins, there is no one to forgive sins except you. But you are. Bring me to the best morality. There is no one who can lead to good morals except you. Drive away evil from me. There is no one to drive away evil except you. I am ready for any order. I will not be a slave to anyone but you! All the good is in your hands. Evil is not from you. I exist because of you and I am back to you. What a nation you are and how exalted you are. I beg your forgiveness of my sins and turn to you.” When he got to ruku', he would say: “My God, I only bowed down before you, I believed in you, I surrendered my will to you. My ears, eyes, nerves, and bones are in a state of love and fear and respect for you.” When he stood up from ruku', he would say: "O Allah, the heavens and the earth, and the distances between them, are for you as much as the things you wish." When he prostrated, he said: “My God, I only prostrated to you, I believed in you, I surrendered my will to you. My face prostrated to the One who created it and formed it, giving ears and eyes. Blessed is Allah, Who created everything in its most beautiful form, the most beautiful of the beautiful ones.” Then, between the tashahhud session and the salutation, he would say: “O Allah, forgive me for all my sins that I put forward and postponed, what I did secretly and openly, and all my sins that you know better than me. You are the one leading and leaving behind. There is no true god but you, but you are." (Nesai, Iftitah: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3751-) Ali b. It is narrated from Abu Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh): When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up to perform the fard prayer, he would raise his hands to shoulder level, and when he finished reading, he would raise his hands to shoulder level in the same way. He would do the same when he got up from ruku. He would not raise his hand in any way while he was sitting, and when he stood up after making two prostrations, he would raise his hands in the same way and say takbir. When starting the prayer after the takbir, he would start with the following prayer: “I turned my face to Allah, who created the heavens and the earth, sincerely, I am not one of the polytheists. My prayer, all my servitude, my life and my death are for Allah, the Lord of the worlds. He has no partners. This is how I have been commanded to say and live, and I am a Muslim. My God, you are the true ruler. There is no true god but you, but you exist, and I absolve you of all imperfections. You are my Lord, I am your servant, I have wronged myself. I confess my sin. Forgive all my sins, for there is no one to forgive sins except you. No one can lead me to the best morals except you. Take away the evil from me, there is no one to take away the evil except you. I am ready for all your orders, I am not a slave to anyone but you, I exist because of you and I have returned to you, salvation and escape from you is only possible by returning to you. I ask your forgiveness and I turn to you.” Then he would read from the Qur'an as much as he wanted. When he got to ruku' he would say: “My God, I only bow down before you, I will believe in You and surrender my will to you. You are the one who put my life in the program. My ears, eyes, marrows and bones are in a state of love and fear and respect for you. You are the Lord of all the worlds.” When he raised his head from Ruku, he would say: “Allah hears and hears this word of the one who praises and praises Him as He hears all other words.” He would add: "My God, our Lord! Praise be to you as much as the heavens and the earth and as much as you wish.” When he prostrated, he said: “O Allah, I will only prostrate to you, I will believe in you, I will surrender my will to you. You are my Lord, my face prostrated to the one who created me and took care of me. Allah, Who created everything in its best form, is the most beautiful of the beautiful and how blessed is it.” When he finished his prayer and left the prayer, he would say: "O Allah, forgive me all my sins that I have done and postponed, secretly and openly. You are my true god, there is no true god but you.” (Nesai, Iftitah: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. The practice of Shafi'i and some of our friends is according to this hadith. Ahmed is not of this opinion. Ebû İsmail et Tirmidhi, Muhammed b. Ismail b. I heard Yusuf say: Sulayman b. I heard from Dawud al-Hashimi, he was saying: He mentioned this hadith and said: This narration is as valid for us as Zuhri's narration from Salim and his father.
3752-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), a man came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: Tonight I saw myself in a state of prayer in my dream. When I prostrated, the tree also prostrated, following my prostration. I heard the tree say: "O Allah, give me rewards from you for this prostration, and remove my sin from me for this prostration. Keep them in your sight to be a provision for me, accept it from me as you accepted it from your servant David.” Ibn Jurayj said: Your grandfather (Ubaydullah b. Yazid) narrated from Ibn Abbas that he said to me: "The Prophet (pbuh) recited the verse of prostration and prostrated himself." Ibn Abbas says: "I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say the same as the tree told by the man at that time." (Ibn Majah, Iqamat-us Salat: 27) This hadith is strange. We only know this way. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Said al-Khudri on this subject.
3753-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) recited the verse of prostration from the Qur'an at night, he used to say: “My face prostrated to the one who created it and gave ears and eyes with its power and strength. ” (Nesai, Tatbik: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3754-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When anyone leaves his house, he says: “I trust in Allah in the name of Allah, I rely on Allah, it is only through Allah that we can exert effort and strength. If he says, “It is with the permission of Allah”, it is said to him: “Your needs have been met, you have been taken under protection” and the devil walks away from that person. (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih. But this is how we know it.
3755-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh): The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray while leaving his house: “In the name of Allah… I trusted in Allah and relied on Him. O Allah, I seek refuge in You from slipping my foot from the path of truth, from falling astray, from being oppressed, from being oppressed, from being ignorant and being ignorant of us.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3756-) Muhammed b. According to the narration from Wasi (radiyallahu anh), he said: When I came to Mecca, my brother Salim b. Abdullah b. I met Umar, who narrated from his father and grandfather that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever enters the market and says, "There is no true god but Allah. There is only He, He has no partner. The reign is his. Praise be to him, it is He who gives life and kills. He is the only immortal and always alive. All good is in his hands, and he has power over all things.” Allah writes a million rewards for the person who says this, erases his million sins and raises his level a million times. (Ibn Majah, Ticarat: 27) This hadith is strange. He is one of the heroes of his family. Amr b. Dinar, Salim b. Abdullah narrated a similar hadith to us.
3757-) Sâlim b. According to the narration from Abdullah's father and grandfather, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever is in the market, there is no true god but Allah, He is One, He has no partners, His sovereignty belongs to Him, His praise belongs to Him, His life belongs to Him. It is He who gives and kills. He is immortal and always alive. If he says, "All goodness is in His hands and His power is enough for everything," Allah will write him a million good deeds, erase his million sins and build a mansion in Paradise for him. (Ibn Mâce, Trade: 27) Amr b. Dinar is an old man from Basra. Some hadith scholars talked about him back and forth.
3758-) It is narrated from Abu Said and Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anhuma): "Whoever says that there is no true god but Allah, Allah is the greatest, his Lord will confirm him and say, "There is no god but me, but I exist and I am the greatest". . When the servant says, "There is no true god but Allah, there is only Allah and He is One", Allah says, "There is no true god but me, but I am the only one". If the servant says, "There is no true god but Allah, there is only Allah, and He has no partner," Allah will say, "There is no true god but me, and I am the only one". If the servant says, "There is no true god but Allah, the sultanate belongs to Him, all praise belongs to Him," Allah says, "There is no true god but me, I exist, the sultanate is mine, all praise is my right." If the servant says: "There is no real god but Allah, power and strength belong only to Allah", Allah will say: "There is no real god but me, I exist, strength is mine". The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever says this when he is sick and then dies, Hellfire will not be able to eat him." (Ibn Majah, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan garib.
3759-) Shu'ba narrates this hadith from Abu Ishaq, Eghar, Abu Muslim, Abu Huraira and Abu Said, without arguing that it has a similar meaning in terms of meaning. Likewise, Bundar, Muhammed b. He conveyed this hadith to us from Jafar and Shu'ba in this way.
3760-) According to the narration from Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever sees a handicapped and crippled person: Allah, who has made me safe from this calamity He has given you and made me superior to many His creations and equipped me with blessings. If he says "Thank God", he will be freed from that trouble as long as he lives. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. A hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira on the subject. Amr b. Dinar is an old man from Basra. He is not very strong in hadith. Some of the hadiths of Sâlim b. He narrated from Omar alone. Ebû Cafer, Muhammed b. It was narrated from Ali that he said: "When they see a handicapped person, they take refuge in Allah, and they do it from their heart, and they do not announce it to the handicapped."
3761-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever sees a disabled person, he says: "What makes me safe from this trouble he gave you and makes me superior to many of his creations and If he says, "Praise be to Allah, who has blessed you with blessings", that trouble will not happen to him. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form.
3762-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever sits in a meeting and talks too much empty talk, before he leaves the meeting: O Allah, I glorify you with your praise. I testify that there is no god but you, but that you are the true god. If he says, "I will ask forgiveness from you, I will repent and turn to you", the mistakes that occurred in that meeting will be forgiven. (Musnad: 10012) A hadith was also reported from Abu Barza and Aisha. This hadith is hasan garib authentic as it is. We know it only in this way as Suhayl's narration.
3763-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: It was considered that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed a hundred times before getting up in a meeting: You are the forgiver of sins.” (Ibn Majah, Adab: 27)
3764-) Ibn Abi Omar, through Sufyan Muhammad b. He narrated a similar hadith in terms of meaning with this deed from Suka. This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3765-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray as follows in times of distress: “There is no true god but Allah, He is exalted and majestic. There is no true god but Allah. He is the owner of the great throne. There is no true god but Allah. He is the Lord of the heavens and the earth, and the noble one is the Lord of the Throne.” (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Zikr: 17)
3766-) Muhammed b. Bashâr transmitted a similar hadith to us from Hisham, Qatada, Abu'l Âliya, and Ibn Abbas through Ibn Abi Adiyy. A hadith has also been narrated from Ali on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3767-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), when something upsets the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he raises his head to the sky: “My God! I will protect you from all kinds of shortcomings”. When he prayed with all his might, he would say: "O living one, O my God, who made it exist and keeps it alive". (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3768-) According to the narration from Hawle bint Hakîm es Sülemiyye (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: Whoever lands in a camp and recites this prayer, nothing will harm him until he leaves the place: I seek refuge in Allah's complete and complete verses from the evil of the creatures He has created." (Muslim, Zikr: 27; Ibn Majah, Medicine: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Malik b. Enes reported this hadith to Yakup b. Abdullah b. He narrates it as transmitted from Eşec and conveys it to us approximately in this way. This hadith was transmitted by Yakub b. Abdullah b. It has been narrated from Eşec that Jacob said in this narration: “Saîd b. From Müseyyeb and Havle”. The hadith of Lays is more robust than the narration of Ibn Aclan.
3769-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went on a journey and got on his mount, he would point with his finger -Shu'ba pointed with his finger- and said: "O Allah, you are our friend throughout the journey. . We entrust our children to you. O Allah, make us with your advice. Return us to our homeland in safety. O Allah, shorten the distances for us and make our journey easy. O Allah, I seek refuge in You from the troubles of the journey, and I seek refuge in You from the difficulties and evils of returning." (Nesâî, İstiaze 27) We know this hadith only by the narration of Ibn Abi Adiyy from Suveyd.
3770-) Suveyd b. Nasr Abdullah b. Through Mubarak, he narrated a similar hadith from Shu'ba in the same deed. As a narration from Abu Huraira, this hadith is hasan garib. We know this hadith only from the narration of Ibn Abi Adiyy from Shu'ba.
3771-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Sarjis (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) used to say when he went on a journey: "O Allah, you are a friend on the journey, and you are the guardian of our children. O Allah, I seek refuge in You from the troubles of your journey. I seek refuge in You from the difficulties and evils of your return. O Allah, be our friend in our journey, and be a surrogate for our children, I seek refuge in You from trouble after abundance, from the curse of the oppressed, from bad appearance and bad consequences in property and family.” (Muslim, Hajj: 27; Ibn Majah, Dua: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. It is also narrated that "from absence after existence". The meaning of the words "poverty after wealth or abundance" has a separate interpretation for both. It is also said that there is a return from belief to disbelief or a return from obedience to sin. It means turning from something good to something bad.
3772-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to say when he returned from an expedition: “We are those who turn, those who repent, those who worship, and those who praise our Lord.” (Musnad: 17746) This hadith is hasan authentic. Servi narrates this hadith from Bara through Abu Ishaq, and Rabi' b. He does not mention Barâ. The story is more authentic. On this subject, Ibn Umar, Jabir, Enes and Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Mas'ud.
3773-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) returned from a journey, he would speed up the army when the buildings of the city were visible to him. If he was on a ride, he would speed up his ride because of his love for Medina.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3774-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was going to send off a person, he would hold his hand. I entrust him with his responsibility for his work and the good outcome of his affairs.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form. The hadith was also narrated from Ibn Umar in a different way.
3775-) Ibn Omar used to say to a person who wanted to go on a journey: “Come to me, I will send you off like the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent us off; I entrust him with his religion, his responsibility to Allah and the good outcome of his affairs.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) As the narration of Salim, this hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3776-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! I want to go on a journey, pray for me. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "May Allah taqwa your little one, that is, try to find your way with Allah's message at all times and throughout your journey." The man said something more: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "May Allah forgive your sins". The man said, "My parents will be sacrificed for you, tell me something more." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Wherever you are. May Allah make it easy for you.” (Darimi, Istizan: 17) This hadith is hasan garib.
3777-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), a man said: “O Messenger of Allah! I want to go on a journey. Advise me,” he said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do not lose your sense of responsibility towards Allah and say takbir while ascending to all kinds of high places." When the man turned and left, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "O Allah, make the earth close and make the far ones close and make your journey easy." (Ibn Majah, Jihad: 27) This hadith is hasan.
3778-) Ali b. According to what is reported from Rabia (radiyallahu anh), she said: I saw Ali (radiyallahu anh), a ride was brought for him to ride. When he put his foot in the stirrup, he said "Bismillah" three times. When he sat on the back of the mount, he said "Alhamdulillah" and read the 13th and 14th verse of Zuhruf Surah: "How great is Allah, who gave us this mount. If he had not given us this opportunity, we would not have used it. Indeed, we will turn around and reach it again.” Then he said "Alhamdulillah" three times. He said "Allahu Akbar" three times and recited the following prayer: "O my Lord, how exalted are you. I have wronged myself, forgive me. You are the only one who forgives sins. Then he laughed and I said: O Commander of the Believers, why did you laugh? He said: “I saw the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and he did what I did and smiled. Why did you laugh too? O Messenger of Allah!” said. He said: Allah likes it when his servant says, "My Lord, forgive my sins, no one can forgive them but you." (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 17) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Omar on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3779-) It has been narrated from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh): When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) set out on a journey, he utters takbir three times on his board and reads Surah Zuhruf 13-14. He used to read the verses: “How exalted is Allah, who gave us this ride. If he had not given us this opportunity, we would not have used it, in fact, we would turn around and reach it again.” Then he would pray as follows: “O Allah, on this journey, I ask you to be in a sense of responsibility towards you in obedience and servitude to you. I wish to do the deeds that I will be pleased with. May Allah make our journey easy. Make the far close. You are our friend on our journey, and you are the surrogate about our children. O Allah, be a friend to us on this journey as well. Be our attorney about our children.” When the journey was over and he was returning home, he said: “We will return, hopefully we will repent of our mistakes. We only praise our Lord.” (Muslim, Hajj: 27) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
3780-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: There are three prayers that can be accepted: “The oppressed, the wronged person, the guest or the traveler, the prayer of the parents for their child.” (Ibn Majah, Prayer: 27)
3781-) Ali b. Hucr, İsmail b. From Hisham ed Destevaî through Ibrahim, Yahya b. He narrated a similar hadith from Abi Kathir with this deed and added the following: "There is no doubt in its acceptance." This hadith is hasan. Yahya b. Abu Cafer er Razi, who narrated hadith from Abî Kathir, is also called Abu Cafer al-Muezzin. From Yahya b. Abi Kathir narrated another hadith. We don't know his name.
3782-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw the wind blowing heavily, he would say: “My God, this wind asks you for the good of what it carries and the good of what it sends. I seek refuge in you from the evil of this wind, the evil of what it carries, and the evil of what it has been sent to." (Muslim, Salat-ül İstiska: 27) Übey b. Hadith was also narrated from Ka'b. This hadith is hasan.
3783-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saw the flash of thunder and lightning, he used to pray: “O Allah, do not kill us with your wrath and do not destroy us with your wrath, give us good health, either. Kill us not by a catastrophe, but by a natural death.” (Musnad: 5503) This hadith is garib. We only know this way.
3784-) Talha b. According to the narration from Ubeydullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw the crescent, he used to pray: “O Allah, make this month rise for us with blessings, faith, peace and Islam. O Crescent, your Lord is Allah, in me and in you.” (Musnad: 1324) This hadith is hasan garib.
3785-) Muâz b. It was narrated from Cebel (radiyallahu anh). He said: Two men quarreled and fought in the presence of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Finally, when the signs of anger began to appear on someone, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I know a word that if this person says it, his anger will definitely go away. “Euzu billahi mineşshaytanirracim (I seek refuge in Allah from the evil of the stoned Satan who was expelled from Allah's mercy.)” (Musnad: 21072)
3786-) Bundar narrated a similar hadith from Sufyan through Abdurrahman with this deed. In this regard, Sulayman b. Hadith was also narrated from Surad. This hadith is mursal. Because Abdurrahman b. Ebî Leyla, Muâz b. He did not hear any hadith from Cebel. Muaz, Omar b. He died during the caliphate of Khattab. Umar b. When Hattab was martyred, Abdurrahman b. Abi Layla was a six-year-old boy. Shu'be, from Hakim and Abdurrahman b. It was narrated from Abi Layla in the same way. Abdurrahman b. Abi Leyla, Omar b. He narrated hadith from Khattab and saw himself. Abdurrahman b. Ebi Leyla is known as Ebû Isa. Abu Layla's name is Yasar. Abdurrahman b. Abi Layla is reported to have said: "I reached one hundred and twenty of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)."
3787-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “If any of you sees a dream that he loves, it is from Allah. Let him praise Allah and tell him what he saw. If he sees a dream that he does not like, it is from the devil, he should seek refuge in Allah from its evil and not tell anyone about it, so that the dream will not harm him.” (Bukhari, Ta'bir: 27) A hadith was also reported from Abu Qatada on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Ibn al-Had's name is Yazid b. Abdullah b. Usama b. al-Had al-Madeni is a trusted person. Malik and others narrated hadiths from him.
3788-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: When people got the first fruit, they would bring it to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) took it in his hand, he would pray: "O Allah, make our fruits fruitful, our country fruitful, and our scales fruitful. my god! Abraham is your servant, friend and prophet. I am your servant and your Prophet. I do the same prayer for Medina as he did for Mecca." Abu Huraira said: "Then the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) would call the youngest child who was there and give him that fruit." (Muslim, Hajj: 27; Ibn mace, Menasik: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3789-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: I and Khalid b. Walid, together with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), we went to Maimuna and Maimuna brought us a milk jug. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) drank from it. I was on his right. Khalid was on his left. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to me: “It is your turn to drink. However, if you want, you can prefer Khalid to yourself in this regard”. I said: "I can't choose someone else for your leftover milk." Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If Allah gives someone something to eat, he should say, "O Allah, bless us with this food and give us something better than it." Whoever Allah gives to drink milk should say: "O Allah, make this milk useful for us and give us plenty of it". The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "There is no substitute for both food and drink except milk." (Ibn Majah, Etima: 17) This hadith is hasan. this hadith by Ali b. Narrated by Zayd: “Umar b. From Harmele,” he said. Some say, “Amr b. Harmele said, "It is not true.
3790-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the table was set in front of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him), he used to pray as follows: “All praises are best for you. My God! You are blessed, everything is asked of you and we are always in need of all the blessings you have created.” (Bukhari, Etima: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3791-) It was narrated from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ate and drank: “Praise be to Allah, who fed us, deceived us with his drinks, and made us Muslims.” (Ibn Maje, Etim: 27)
3792-) Muâz b. It was narrated from Anas (radiyallahu anh) that he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever eats a meal: "Praise be to Allah, who gave me this food and gave it to me as sustenance without my power or power. ', his past sins are forgiven. (Ibn Majah, Etima: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. The name of Abu Merhum was Abdurrahman b. Maymun.
3793-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), it is narrated that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When you hear a rooster crowing, ask for the grace of Allah, because the rooster has seen an angel. When you hear the braying of the donkey, seek refuge in Allah from the stoned Satan. Because the donkey has seen the devil and bragged from him.” (Bukhari, Bad-ul Halk: 27; Muslim, Zikr: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3794-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: There is no one on earth: "There is no true god but Allah. But there is God. God is the greatest. If he says, "The power and strength are only in the hands of Allah", even if it is as much as the foam of the sea, he will be forgiven. (Musnad: 6665) This hadith is hasan garib. Abu Belc's name is Yahya b. It is called Abu Sulaym.
3795-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, through Ibn ebî Adiyy, to Hatîm b. Ebi Sağîre, Ebû Belc, Amr b. From Maymun, Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith from Amr. Hatim is known as Abu Yunus el Kuseyri.
3796-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. He narrated a similar hadith from Shu'ba, Abu Belc, through Cafer, without compromising.
3797-) According to the narration from Abu Musa al-Ashari (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were in a war with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). When we returned, the Muslims raised their voices and uttered takbir. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Your Lord is not deaf. It's not far either. It is like next to you and between you.” Then he continued as follows: “O Abdullah b. Kays! Shall I inform you of one of the treasures of heaven? Strength is only Allah's.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Zikir: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Osman en Nehdi's name is Abdurrahman b. It is Müll. The name of Abu Neame is Amr b. He is Moses. The meaning of "beynekum and brain's rûuzu ricalikum" in the hadith means "he is between you with his knowledge and power".
3798-) It was narrated from Ibn Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I met Ibrahim on the night I was taken to Miraj: O Muhammad! Say hello to your ummah from me and let them know: The soil of Paradise is beautiful and its water is sweet. There are plains in Paradise. The tree planted here is Subhanallahi velhamdulillahi vela ilaha illallahu vallahu akbar. (Exalted be Allah, praise be to Allah, there is no true god but Allah, and Allah is the greatest). (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also reported from Abu Ayyub on this subject. In this form, this hadith is hasan garib as the narration of Ibn Mas'ud.
3799-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Abu Wakkas (radiyallahu anh), is not one of you able to earn a thousand rewards for those sitting next to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? he commanded. How can one of us sitting earn a thousand rewards? She asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If any of you says Subhanallah a hundred times, a thousand good deeds will be written for him and a thousand sins will be erased." (Muslim, Zikr: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3800-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Whoever says: "I glorify Allah with the praise of the great and great", a date tree will be planted for him in Paradise. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. We know this hadith only as the narration of Abu'z Zubayr from Jabir.
3801-) Again, according to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If someone says, “I glorify Allah with the praise of Allah, the great and the greatest,” a date tree will be planted for him in Paradise. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3802-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever says, "I glorify Allah with His praise," will be forgiven even if they are as much as the foam of the sea. (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Zikr: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3803-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are two words on the tongue that are heavy on light scales and very dear to Allah, the Most Gracious. Allah is exalted and perfect, with the praises worthy of Him, exalted is Allah, the greatest.” (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Zikr: 17) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
3804-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever has a true deity but Allah a hundred times a day, there is only Allah, He is One. He has no partner. Sultanate belongs to Him, praise belongs to him. It is He who gives life and kills, and if he says, 'He has power over all things', the reward of liberating ten slaves is given, and a hundred good deeds are written, and a hundred sins are erased. What he reads is protection from the devil throughout that day until the evening. Unless a person does more than that, he cannot gain more than that. (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Zikr: 17)
3805-) It is also reported in this year: "Whoever says I praise Allah a hundred times a day, his sins will be erased, even if they are as much as the foam of the sea." This hadith is hasan authentic.
3806-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever says I glorify Allah with the praise of Allah a hundred times in the morning and evening, he will receive as much reward on the Day of Judgment as he says or someone who surpasses him. cannot pass him.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3807-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) once said to his Companions: "Say, "I glorify Allah with His praise a hundred times a day." Whoever says it once, ten good deeds will be written for him, whoever says it ten times, a hundred good deeds, and whoever says it a hundred times, a thousand good deeds. Whoever increases, Allah increases the amount of reward, and whoever asks Allah for forgiveness, Allah will forgive him. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3808-) Amr b. According to the narration from the grandfather of Shuayb (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever glorifies Allah a hundred times in the morning and a hundred times in the evening, he will gain the reward of performing Hajj a hundred times. Whoever praises Allah a hundred times a day, morning and evening, is as if he has prepared a hundred horses for jihad in the way of Allah, or he will receive rewards like one who has fought a hundred times. Whoever says la ilaha illallah a hundred times in the morning and a hundred times in the evening will earn the reward of the person who freed a hundred slaves from the sons of Ismail; whoever says Allahu Akbar a hundred times in the morning and a hundred times in the evening, no one can win the thawab earned by him other than the person who says as much as he says or passes as much as he says. ” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3809-) According to the narration from Zuhri (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Saying "Subhanallah" once in Ramadan is superior and valuable than saying a thousand subhanallah in other months." (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3810-) According to the narration from Tamim ed Dârî (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever; I believe and declare that I believe that there is no true god but Allah, but Allah is one, He has no partners. It is the only one without the second. Everyone and everything needs him and he does not need anyone. He did not have a wife or children. If he says, “Nothing can be equal or similar to it, it cannot be compared to anything”, Allah will write forty million rewards for him. (Musnad: 16340) This hadith is garib. But this is how we know it. Halil b. Murra is not a solid person next to the hadith scholars. Muhammed b. Ismail says: This person is someone who narrates munkar hadiths.
3811-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever kneels down after the morning prayer, saying nothing, ten times: There is no god but Allah, there is only Allah. He is alone, he has no partner. The reign belongs to him. All praise is due to him, and it is He who gives life and kills. If he says, “He is capable of everything”, ten good deeds will be written for him, and ten sins will be erased. It is raised ten degrees. He is protected from all kinds of evil during that day. It is protected from the devil. If he does not associate partners with Allah, no sin he will commit will harm him, and his sins will be erased. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
3812-) According to the narration from Burayda al-Aslemî (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) heard a man praying: “O Allah, I want you to say: There is no true god other than You, that you are the only one. I believe that it is not, and I declare this fact to others. You are the only one whose second cannot be thought of. You are not in need of anyone or anything, but everyone and everything needs you. That God certainly did not become a father, and he has no children. Nothing can be equal or similar to it, it cannot be compared to anything.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my soul, that this man has prayed for his name, Azam, which he will definitely accept when he is prayed for, and which he will always give when asked for it." Zayd said: I reminded Zuhayr of this hadith a few years later, and he said: This hadith was given to me by Abu Ishaq Malik b. He transferred it from Mıgvel. Zayd says: Then I told this hadith to Sufyan, who transmitted it to me from Malik. (Ibn Majah, Dua: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. Sharik narrates the hadith from Abu Ishaq, Burayda and his father. However, Abu Ishaq reported this hadith from Malik b. He got it from Mıgvel. He became his vehicle. Sharik narrates this hadith from Abu Ishaq.
3814-) Fedâle b. According to a narration from Ubayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sitting in the mosque, a man came and prayed, then he prayed: "O Allah, forgive me, have mercy on me." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "O one who prays, you hastened. When you pray and sit down, praise Allah as it deserves, then salute and salute me, and then pray." After that, someone else prayed. After the prayer, he praised Allah and sent blessings and greetings to the Prophet. He didn't do anything else. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said to that person: “O one who performs prayers! Pray and your prayer will be accepted." (Nesai, Sahv: 27) This hadith is hasan. Hayve b. Shurayh narrated this hadith from Abu Hani. Abu Hani's name is Humayd b. He is Hani. The name of Abu Ali al-Cenbî is Amr b. He is Malik.
3815-) Fedâle b. According to the narration from Ubayd (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said that a man was praying in tashahhud in his prayer. However, he heard that he did not send blessings and greetings to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “This man hastened.” Then he called him and said to him and the others: "When one of you prays, he should start with the praise and praise of Allah and send blessings and greetings to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and then pray as he wishes." (Nesai, Sahv: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3816-) According to the narration from Asma bint Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The greatest name of Allah, whose name is called Azam, is in these two verses: “Your god is only one god. There is no true god but Him, but He is. He is the one who is merciful to everyone in this world, and in the hereafter, he is merciful only to believers.” (Baqara: 163) “Alif lam mim, Allah is the only God who has no true god but Himself. He is always alive and immortal, and is the sole ruler and watcher of all beings.” (Âl-i imrân: 1-2) (İbn Mâce, Dua: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3817-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Pray to Allah knowing truly that it will be accepted. Know that Allah does not accept prayers made out of indifference and playful entertainment.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib and we know it only as it is. I heard Abbas al-Anbari say: Abdullah b. Write a hadith from Muawiya al-Jumhi because he is a reliable person.
3818-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray as follows: “O Allah, make my body healthy, my eyes safe, and make me healthy until my last breath. There is no true god but Allah, Who is merciful and does not hurry to punish. Glory be to Allah, the Owner of the Great Throne. All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the worlds.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. I heard from Muhammad, he was saying: Habib b. Ebi Sabit, Urve b. He did not hear anything from Zubayr. Allah knows best.
3819-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), Fatima came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to ask for a servant: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to her: You pray as follows: “Lord of the seven heavens, O my God, O Lord of the great throne, O our Lord, O Lord of all beings, Who brought the Torah, Gospel and Qur'an down, O I seek refuge in You from the evil of everything that splits grains and seeds. The will of every living thing is in your hands. You are the first, there is no existence before you. You are the last, there will be no existence after you. You are the apparent, there is nothing above you. You are the west, there is no being ahead of you. Pay my debts and get me out of poverty.” (Muslim, Zikr: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. Some of A'mesh's men narrated from A'mesh similar to the one here. They narrated this hadith from A'mash and Abu Salih as a mursal and did not mention Abu Hurayra.
3820-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray as follows: “O Allah, I seek refuge in you from useless knowledge, from a heart that does not respect you, from a heart that does not listen, from a heart that does not get enough of it. I seek refuge with you from these four things." (Nesai, İstiaze: 27) Hadiths on this subject were also reported from Jabir, Abu Huraira and Ibn Mas'ud. This hadith, in this form, was transmitted by Abdullah b. As the narration of Amr, it is hasan sahih garib.
3821-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to my father: “O Husayn! How many gods do you worship today?” he commanded. My father replied: “To seven gods, six on earth and one in heaven.” Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Which of these are your desires, desires and fears?” he commanded. My father replied: “To the sky”. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “O Husayn! If you had become a Muslim, I would have taught you two words that would benefit you…” When Husayn became a Muslim: “O Messenger of Allah! Teach me the two words you promised me. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Pray like this: O Allah, inspire me with what is beneficial for me and protect me from the evil of myself." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. This hadith is Imran b. It is also narrated from Husayn in a different way.
3822-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) praying mostly with these words: "O Allah, I am safe from trouble, sadness, helplessness, laziness, stinginess, my debt, and people's domination of me. I take shelter." (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Zikir: 17) This hadith is strange. This hadith is from Imara b. It is also narrated from Husayn in a different way.
3823-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray as follows: “O Allah, I seek refuge in You from laziness, old age, cowardice, stinginess, the temptation of the Messiah Dajjal and the torment in the grave.” (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Zikir: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3824-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to draw the rosary with his fingers.” (Nesâî, Sahv: 17; İbn Mâce, İkamet-üs Salat: 27) This hadith is from A'meş, Ata b. As it is narrated from Saib, it is hasan garib. Shu'be, Sevri reported this hadith from Ata b. He narrated from Saib in a long way. It was narrated from Yuseyra bint Yasir on this subject. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "O women's community, glorify with your fingers. Those fingers are also responsible and they will be made to speak to testify.”
3825-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) visited a sick person and that person became weak and left like a baby bird. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Wouldn't you pray to him? Wouldn't you ask your Lord for well-being?" She asked. The man said: “My God! If you have a punishment for me in the hereafter, give it to me quickly in this world.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Subhanallah! You can't afford it or you can't afford it. Couldn't you say, "O Allah, give us good in this world and in the hereafter and protect us from the torment of Hell." (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Zikir: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is.
3826-) According to the narration from Hasan (radiyallahu anh): "O my Lord, give us goodness in this world and in the hereafter", the goodness in the world is knowledge, worship and servitude. The goodness in the hereafter is Paradise. (Tirmidhi narrated it.) b. Müsenna, Halid b. He narrated a similar hadith from Humayd, Thabit and Anas through Haris.
3827-) According to the narration from Abu Ishaq (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard it from Abu'l Ahvas, Abdullah b. It was narrated from Mas'ud: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray as follows: "O Allah, I ask you for guidance, awareness of responsibility, chastity and wealth of heart." (Muslim, Dhikr: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3828-) According to the narration from Abu'd Darda (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: I want to do the deed that leads to your love. O Allah, make your love more beloved to me than myself, my family, and cold water…” Abu Darda says: “When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) mentioned David, he was the most worshiped of people.” . (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3829-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Yazid al-Hatmi al-Ansari (radiy-Allāhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to say in his prayer: “O Allah, give me your love and the love of someone whose love will benefit me in your presence.” O Allah, give me strength and power in the matters that you love, whatever you have given me in terms of health, property, son, whom I love. O Allah, whatever you have taken from me from my loved ones, give me strength in the worship and servitude that you love. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. The name of Abu Cafer al-Hutmi was Umayr b. Yazid b. It is Humaşe.
3830-) Shekel b. According to a narration from Humayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: I came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and said: "O Messenger of Allah, teach me a prayer of refuge so that I may take refuge with him." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) grabbed my shoulder and said: “O Allah! I seek refuge in You from the evil of my ear, the evil of my eyes, the evil of my tongue, the evil of my heart and the evil of my genitals.” (Nesai, İstiaze: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. Sa'd b. Evs'in, Bilal b. We know from Yahya's narration.
3831-) It was narrated from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) that she said: I was sleeping next to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). I couldn't find him with me at night, when I searched with my hand, my hand touched his feet, he was in a prostrate position, he was praying: "I seek your satisfaction from your wrath, your forgiveness from your punishment, I do not know how to praise you, you are as you praise yourself." (Muslim, Salat: 27) This hadith is hasan. It was narrated from Aisha in a different way.
3832-) Kutayba, through Leys, Yahya b. He conveyed a similar hadith from Said to us and added the following: "I seek refuge in you from you, I cannot finish counting how to praise you."
3833-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) taught his Companions the following prayer as if he were teaching a chapter from the Qur'an: “O Allah, I seek refuge in You from the torment of Hell and the torment of the grave. I seek refuge in you from the temptation of the Messiah Dajjal. I seek refuge in You from the trials of life and death." (Muslim, Masajid: 27; Nesai, Cenaiz: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3834-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray: “O Allah, from the trouble of Hell and the torment of Hell, from the evil of the trouble of the grave and the evil of poverty and the Messiah Dajjal.” I seek refuge in you from the fitna of Allah. O Allah, wash my faults with snow and hail water, and cleanse my heart from sins as you have cleansed the white garment of dirt. Make a distance between me and my sins as you have distanced the distance between the east and the west. O Allah, I seek refuge in You from laziness, old age, sin and debt.” (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Zikir: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3835-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) praying at the time of his death: "O Allah, forgive me, have mercy on me. Lead me to the supreme friend.” (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Zikir: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3836-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “O Allah, if you wish, forgive me; O Allah, if you wish, let him not say pain to me. Let him make his prayer for sure, because no one is forcing him." (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Zikir: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3837-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When the last third of the night is gone, our Lord descends to the heavens of the world and says: Is there anyone who prays for me so that I can accept his prayer. Anyone want me? Let me forgive him." (Bukhari, Friday: 27; Muslim, Salat-ul Musafirin: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Ubeydullah al-Agar's name is Salman. In this regard, Ali, Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Ebû Said, Cübeyr b. Mut'ım, Rıfaa el Cühenî, Ebû'd Derda ve Osman b. Hadith was also narrated from Ebî'l As.
3838-) According to a narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was told: “O Messenger of Allah! Which of your prayers is more acceptable?” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Prayers made in the last half of the night and after obligatory prayers." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan. It was narrated from Zarr and Ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "The last half of the night, when the prayer is more valuable and more hopeful, or he used a similar expression."
3839-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), a man said: O Messenger of Allah! I heard you pray tonight. What reached me from your prayer was your words: "My God, forgive my sins, expand my sustenance, and make the sustenance you have given me fruitful." Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If you do this prayer, do you think you have left something we did not want? So you want everything.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Abu's Selil's name is Dureyb b. It is Nufeir. It is also called Ibn Nufayr.
3840-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever wakes up in the morning: O Allah, as a witness that we believe in you, believes in the existence of angels carrying the Throne and believes in the existence of all angels. By accepting that you created all creatures, I testify that there is no true god but you. But you exist, you are the only one who is not the second, and you do not have a partner. And Muhammad is your servant and Messenger." If he says, Allah will forgive the sin he committed on that day. If he does this prayer in the evening, Allah will forgive his sin that night. (Abu Dawud, Adab: 17) This hadith is strange.
3841-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would always pray to his Companions before he got up from a meeting: Grant us a strong faith that will make it easier for us to endure the calamities of the world. O Allah, make us benefit from our ears, eyes and strength as long as he keeps us alive. Grant the same things to our descendants. Take our revenge on those who persecute us. Help us against our enemies. Do not hurt us from our religion. Make the world our greatest goal. Do not end us with worldly knowledge. Do not make those who do not have mercy on us strong and powerful over us.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Some say this hadith to Ibn Umar, Nafi' and Khalid b. It was narrated from Abu Imran.
3842-) Muslim b. According to the narration from Abi Bakra (radiyallahu anh), he said: My father heard me say: "O Allah, I seek refuge in You from all kinds of troubles, laziness and torment in the grave." and; “From whom did you hear this?” he said. I said: “I heard you say these things”. Thereupon he said: “Don't give up on these! Because I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say these things." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3843-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: "Shall I teach you some words that you would be forgiven for even if you were forgiven?" He said: "There is no true god but the Great and Exalted God, but He is the merciful, there is no true god but Allah, Who is not in a hurry to punish. There is only He. I praise Allah, the Lord of the Great Throne, from all imperfections. There is no true god but Him, only He.” (Musnad: 663)
3844-) Ali b. Hasrem said: Ali b. Huseyn b. Vakîd narrated a similar hadith from his father to us, and at the end of the hadith there is the addition: "Complete praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of the worlds". This hadith is garib. Only in this form, Abu Ishaq's Haris b. We know from Ali's narration.
3845-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Ebî Wakkâs (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The prayer that Yunus made while he was in the belly of the fish was: “There is no true god but You. You are above everything with your unlimited power and majesty, in fact, I am one of those who wronged myself by not doing what should be done.” (Anbiya: 87) If he makes this prayer on any subject, Allah will definitely accept his prayer." (Musnad: 1383)
3846-) Muhammed b. Yahya says: Muhammad b. Yusuf b. Murre b. Abraham b. Muhammed b. Sa'd reported this hadith from Sa'd b. Ebî Vakkâs did not say “from Aisha”. Others reported this hadith as Yunus b. Abi Ishaq, Ibrahim b. Muhammed b. From Sa'd and Sa'd b. Abî Vakkâs and they did not say “from his father” in his deed. and Yunus b. Narrated by Ishaq, they said: “Ibrahim b. Muhammed b. Sa'd from his father and Sa'd b. It was narrated from Abu Wakkas.” Yunus b. Abi Ishaq, on the other hand, sometimes says "from his father" from the chain of the hadith, and sometimes he does not.
3847-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah has ninety-nine names. Whoever learns these and lives by knowing Allah in this way throughout his life and ends his life with this belief and living, I hope he will enter Paradise.” (Bukhari, Shurut: 17; Muslim, Dhikr: 27)
3848-) Yusuf says that Abdul A'la related a similar hadith to Hisham b. It has been transmitted to us from Hassan, Muhammad and Abu Huraira.
3849-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah has ninety-nine names. Whoever learns these and lives by knowing Allah in this way throughout his life and ends his life with this belief and living, I hope he will enter Paradise.” “He is Allah, there is no true god but Him. He is the one who shows compassion to everyone in this world and only to believers in the hereafter.” 99 names; We give it in verse translation so that Muslims can easily memorize and know Allah well…) and since it is narrated that Muslim names are not counted, Tirmidhi, Deavât, 86 and İbn-i Mâce, Dua, 10 are 99 names; “Allah has 99 names. Whoever learns these (who lives by knowing Allah in this way throughout his life and ends his life with this belief and living, insha'Allah) will enter Paradise.” There is no other beautiful names to worship except Him. - اَلْقَوِىُ always the servant's deputy. his job is very strong, powerful. – اَلرَحِيمُ is merciful, merciful. he is very deceased to his servant. - اَلْوَلِىُّ unshakable, very steadfast. He is a mawla, what a beautiful saint. – اَلْقُدُوسُ property is His. uniqueness, unity is His. – اَلْمُحْصِى almighty, sublime. counted, how and nice. – اَلْمُؤْمِنُ peace and bliss from Him. guidance and security from Him. – اَلْمُعِيدُ is the beginning of everything, it starts. He does everything again. – اَلْعَزِيزُ He who watches over , controls. He is honorable, gives honor. - اَلْمُمِيتُ resurrects, gives life. kills and destroys. The solution to every problem is from Him. There is no remedy, from your commands. - اَلْقَيوُّمُ is a Hayy, he does not always die alive. nothing will survive without Him. It is His, He is grateful. Allah is the greatest takbir. - اَلْماَجِدُ eternal, eternal. Majid has the same meaning. – اَلْباَرِئُ created, created out of nothing. did it properly, fixed it. - اَلصْمَدُ He is one, there is no other God. It's unique, there's no such thing. He gave a copy to everything. has revealed. - اَلْمُقْتَدِرُ goes over everything. it does everything, it beats it. – اَلْقَهّاَرُ donates, compensates for the lack. damn what he does, he does. - اَلْمُؤَخِّرُ If he wants, he takes it forward. If he wants, he takes it to the end . creature komaz without sustenance. – اَلآخِرُ is the first, there is no before. He is the last, there is no after. – اَلْعَلِيمُ leads and opens doors. He who knows has infinite knowledge. - اَلْباَطِنُ there is no superior to Him. the most secret none since Him. – اَلْباَسِطُ tightens or tightens if he wishes. it gives abundantly, it creates dense. - اَلْمُتَعاَلِى undertakes, supports servant. He is high and lofty. – اَلرّاَفِعُ lower it, lower it. it lifts it up, it glorifies it. - اَلتّوّاَبُ His grace has covered every place. accepts all repentance. – اَلْمُذِلُّ raises and gives glory. humiliates, gives humiliation. – اَلْعَفُوُّ takes revenge, does not let go. If you beg, he will forgive you, he will not look. – اَلْبَصِيرُ hears everything. He sees and observes everything. – ماَلِكُ الْمُلْكِ compassion and mercy. He has no partners in the property. – اَلْعَدْلُ word is in Him, every word is wisdom. His job is justice, his word is justice. وَاْلاِكْراَمِ dhu'l-Jalali ve'l-Ikram mawlā. and Ihsan always be from Him. – اَلْخَبِيرُ gracious, he knows very well. becomes aware of everything. - اَلْجاَمِعُ is just, balance everything. to a certain day. – اَلْعَظِيمُ never accelerates, always gives time. only His majesty. - It is not اَلْمُغْنِى , it is in need of something. All need is from Him. – اَلشْكُورُ forgives, covers, forgives. he knows, less is more. whatever obstacles. no one, if he cuts one. – اَلْكَبِيرُ he is the supreme, the highest. is the greatest, the greatest. - اَلنّاَفِعُ will not be prevented to its detriment. benefit is not lost. اَلْمُقِيتُ He watches, He waits. protects everything. - How اَلْهاَدِى is nûr is never known. Without it there is nothing. – اَلْجَلِيلُ calculates and asks for account. there is the supreme, the supreme He. - اَلْباَقِى who creates everything out of nothing. that will stay forever. – اَلرَقِيبُ very generous, hospitable. seer and watcher. everything is His legacy. It's His, it's His. – اَلْواَسِعُ answers the prayer. abundant in everything, Vasi Mevlaya. - اَلصْبوُرُ shows and teaches. patient always gives opportunity – اَلْوَدُودُ every word, every deed is true. he is loved, he loves his servant. beautiful names belong to Allah alone. You are also your blessing and many sins. cleanse your sin. memorize beautiful names well. give your right, do not fall into negligence. enter and be from Paradise. – اَلْباَعِثُ is glorious, very honorable. gives spirit, sends a messenger. – اَلْحَقُّ Allah is witness over everything. Allah is the only eternal God. Maje, Dua: 10 (Translated by 10/48) This hadith is strange. Many narrators tell us this hadith from Safwan b. It was narrated from Salih. We know this hadith only through the narration of Safwan. He is a trusted person among hadith scholars. This hadith has also been narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways. We know that Esma-ul Husna's names are counted in many narrations only with this hadith. Adam b. Abi Iyas cite this hadith from Abu Hurayra with another isnad, mentioning the names of Allah. But the document of the narration is not sound.
3850-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), “Allah has ninety-nine names. A person who learns about them, lives by knowing Allah according to them and dies with this faith will enter Paradise inshallah.” (Ibn-i Majah, Dua: 10) There is no order of names in this narration. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3851-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When you stop by the gardens of Paradise, make use of it." Then I said: “O Messenger of Allah! Where is the Garden of Eden?” said. They said: "They are mosques." Me: “What does it mean to take advantage of it?” said. They said: "Subhanallahi walhamdulillahi vela ilaha illallahu wallahu akbar (Allah is exalted and complete. All praise is to Allah. There is no true god but Allah and Allah is the greatest." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3852-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "When you visit the gardens of Paradise, make use of it." Companions: “Where are the gardens of Paradise?” they asked. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "They are conversation groups formed to learn the religion of Allah". (Musnad: 12065) In this form, this hadith is hasan garib, as Thabit's narration from Anas.
3853-) According to the narration from Abu Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: When a calamity befalls any of you, let him say: “It is Allah who created us. We live in God's property. Our existence is for Allah, in the end we will return to Him and be held to account.” (Baqara: 156) “My God, I hope that what happened to me in your presence will be rewarded. So reward me and give me something better instead.” As Abu Salama died, he prayed: "O Allah, grant my wife someone better than me after my death." When Abu Salama passed away, Umm Salama said: “Our existence is for Allah. We live in God's property. In the end, we will return to him and be held to account”. “I hope that due to these calamities in the sight of Allah, rewards will be given. Therefore reward me.” (Musnad: 25448) This hadith is strange in its form. This hadith was narrated from Umm Salama in a different way. The name of Abu Salama was Abdullah b. Abdul Assad.
3854-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): A man came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “Which prayer is more valuable and valuable?” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Ask your Lord for peace and well-being in this world and in the hereafter." Then a second day came and asked again, "Which prayer is more virtuous and valuable?" she asked. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave him the same answer. The third time he came, he asked the same question again. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) gave the same answer and continued as follows: "If you have been given good health in this world and in the hereafter, you have already escaped." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Only Salama b. We know from Verdan's narration.
3855-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: “O Messenger of Allah! If I know what night the night of power is, which prayer would you recommend me to recite?" said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "O Allah, you are forgiving, you are generous, you love to forgive, so forgive me." (Ibn Majah, Dua: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3856-) Abbas b. According to the narration from Abdulmuttalib (radiyallahu anh), he said: "O Messenger of Allah! Teach me something so that I can ask it from Allah” I said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Ask Allah for well-being..." A few days later, I came again: "O Messenger of Allah! Teach me something so that I can ask it from Allah” I said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: “O Abbas! O uncle of the Prophet! Ask Allah for well-being in this world and the next.” (Musnad: 1687) This hadith is authentic. Abdullah b. Haris b. Nevfel, Abbas b. He heard a hadith from Abdulmuttalib.
3857-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Nothing more beloved or superior has been asked of Allah than well-being.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Only Abdurrahman b. We know it as the narration of Abu Bakr al-Mulayki.
3858-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiy-Allâhu anh), when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wanted to do something, he would pray: “O Allah, give me the best and choose the most suitable one for me.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib and we know this hadith only through the narration of Zenfel. Zenfel is weak when compared to the hadiths. He is also called Zenfel-ül Arafi. He was living in Arafat. He narrated this hadith alone and there was no one who narrated it like him.
3859-) According to the narration from Abu Malik al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Ablution is a part of belief. Living in a way that says Alhamdulillah fills the scale. Living a life by saying Subhanallah and Alhamdulillah earns enough rewards to fill the gap between the heavens and the earth. Prayer is light. Charity is a proof that a person is a Muslim. Patience is always a light ahead. The Qur'an, on the other hand, is a proof for us or against us. Every person gets up in the morning and is a seller of his own soul. Either he sells himself to Allah by worshiping and serving. Or he destroys himself by following his desires and desires or the devil.” (Muslim, Tahara: 27) This hadith is authentic.
3860-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Saying Subhanallah fills half of the scale. Saying Alhamdulillah fills the scales. There is no veil between a person who says there is no true god but Allah, and He alone exists. Until we are with him in Paradise…” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form and its chain is not sound.
3861-) It was narrated from one of the sons of Sulaym: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) counted these in my hand or in his own hand: Saying Subhanallah is half of the scale. Alhamdulillah, it will be filled. Saying Allahu Akbar fills the gap between the sky and the earth, fasting is half patience, and cleanliness is half faith.” (Musnad: 17571) This hadith is hasan. Shu'ba and Sufyan as-Tevri reported this hadith from Abu Ishaq.
3862-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abi Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray at the place of foundation on the evening of Arafat: O Allah, all my prayers, my life and my death are for you. Transformation is up to you. All my possessions will remain with you. O Allah, I seek refuge in You from the torment of the grave, from the delusion of my heart, from the mess of my affairs. O Allah, I seek refuge in You from the evil of the calamities brought by the wind.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form. It's not solid either.
3863-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made a very long prayer that we could not memorize anything from it. Thereupon he said: “O Messenger of Allah! You made a long prayer, we couldn't memorize anything from it," we said. He said: "Shall I teach you a prayer that gathers all prayers? You pray like this: “My God! We also want the good of what the Prophet Muhammad (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) asked of you, and we seek refuge in you from the evil of what the Prophet Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) took refuge in you. You are the only door whose help is sought, eventually we will reach you. There is no power or strength, but all power is in your hands.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3864-) Shahr b. According to the narration from Hawshab (radiyallahu anh), he said: To Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha); “O mother of believers! What was the prayer that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made the most when he was with you?” He said: "The prayer he often made was: "O my Lord, who turned hearts from one state to another, make my heart firm on your religion." I said to him: “O Messenger of Allah! Why are you praying this prayer?” I asked. They said: “There is no one whose heart has not been between the fingers of Allah. He corrects whomever he wishes, and turns to the straight path and turns away whomever he wishes by shifting his heart.” Then he recited the 8th verse of the chapter of Aal-i Imran: “Those with deep understanding pray: "Our Lord! After you have guided us to the right path, do not deviate our hearts from these truths again, and have mercy on us from Yourself, you are the one with the most donations." (Musnad: 25210) Aisha on this issue, Nevvâs b. From Sem'an, Enes, Câbir, Abdullah b. Amr and Nuaym b. A hadith was also narrated from Ammar. This hadith is hasan.
3865-) According to the narration from Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Khalid b. Walid al Mahzumi complained to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: O Messenger of Allah! I can't sleep at night because of fear. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to him: When you get into your bed, pray: "O Allah, Lord of the seven heavens and what they shade, O Lord of the worlds and what they carry on their back, O Lord of devils and those they mislead, In the evil of all their creations and one of them attacking me." and protect me from his wrongdoing. He who is under your protection is strong. Your praise is supreme. There is no true god but you. But you are.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) The evidence of this hadith is not sound. Referee b. Some hadith scholars took Zuhayr's narration. This hadith is narrated in another way as mursal.
3866-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When any business troubled the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he used to pray: “O God, I seek help with your mercy, the only ruler and watcher of all immortal beings with permanent religion.”
3867-) In the same year, Anas said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Continue the prayer of "O zelal al-walikram." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. The hadith was also narrated in a different way from Anas.
3868-) According to the narration from Enes (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: "Continue the prayer of "O zelcelali velikram." (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is garib and not reserved. The fact is that this hadith was written by Hammad b. It has been narrated from Salama, Humayd and Hasan-i Basri, which is more reliable. Müemmil was mistaken in the hadith and said from Humayd and Anas that no one followed him on this issue.
3869-) According to the narration from Abu Umama al-Bahili (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: Whatever prayer he makes for the good of the world and the hereafter, Allah will surely give him those wishes.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. hadith likewise Shahr b. From Hawsheb, Abu Zabya, Amr b. It was also reported from Abese.
3870-) Muâz b. According to a narration from Cebel (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) heard a man praying: “O Allah, I ask you for all of your bounties.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked, "What is the whole blessing?" I said: "I prayed and I hope for good because of this prayer." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Entry to Paradise and liberation from Hell are considered all blessings." The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) heard a man say: "O zelal al-walikram" and said: "The door of prayer has been opened for you, make a request!" Again, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) heard a man say: "O Allah, I ask you for patience" and said: "You asked Allah for trouble and a test, so ask him for well-being". (Musnad: 21009)
3871-) Ahmed b. Meni', İsmail b. They narrated a similar hadith from Ibrahim and Jureyri with this deed. This hadith is hasan.
3872-) Amr b. According to the narration from the grandfather of Shuayb (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If one of you wakes up afraid of sleep, let him say: “I am not afraid of Allah's wrath and torment, from the evil of His servants, from the whispers of the devils and from their approaching me. I take refuge in your full words.” In this case, nothing will harm him. Abdullah b. Amr reminds his sane child of this prayer. For small children who could not read, he would write it on a piece of paper and hang it around his neck. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
3873-) According to the narration from Abu Rashid al Hayrani (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abdullah b. Amr b. I came to As and said: “Can you tell me something you heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)?” said. Thereupon, he made a letter for me and said: "This is what the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had written for me." I looked at the writing and it was written: Abu Bakr es Siddiq: “O Messenger of Allah! Teach me a prayer that I will recite in the morning and evening.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: O Abu Bakr, he said: "O Allah, O Creator of the heavens and the earth! There is no true god but You, who knows everything, hidden and open. But you are. You are the Lord and ruler of everything. I seek refuge in You from the evil of myself, from the evil of Satan, from committing me to polytheism, from committing a sin and from harming a Muslim." (Musnad: 6309) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
3874-) Amr b. According to the narration from Murra (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard from Abu Vail, he was saying: Abdullah b. He said, I heard Mas'ud say: So I asked him if you heard this from Abdullah. Abu Wail said: "Yes". Abdullah narrated the hadith as a merfu and said: “There is no one more jealous than Allah, so he has forbidden all evil, whether secret or open. There is no one who loves to be praised more than Allah. That's why God has praised himself." (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Tawba: 17) This hadith is hasan garib authentic as it is.
3875-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr es Siddiq (radiyallahu anh), he said: “O Messenger of Allah! I said, "Teach me a prayer that I will do in prayer." The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: “Say: O Allah, I have wronged my soul a lot. Forgive me with forgiveness from Yourself, only you can forgive sins. Have mercy on me. Surely you are forgiving and merciful.” (Bukhari, Azan, 17; Muslim, Dhikr: 27) This hadith is from Leys b. As the narration of Sa'd, it is hasan garib. Ebû'l Hayr's name is Mersed b. Abdullah al-Yezeni.
3876-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was passing by a tree whose leaves had dried up, and when he was passing by a tree with dried leaves, he hit it with his stick and the leaves fell off. Thereupon, he said: “All praise is due to Allah, I praise Allah and I praise Him. There is no true god but Him. But He is. Allah is the greatest, speaking his words will surely shed the servant's sins as this tree sheds its leaves.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib.
3877-) Umara b. According to a narration from Shabib es Sai (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whoever has ten times after sunset, there is no true god but Allah, but He is One, He has no partners. The sultanate and the will belong entirely to him. He is worthy of full praise. He is the giver of life. Death is also in His hands. and he is able to do all things”, Allah will send armed guards to protect him from Satan until the morning, and ten good deeds will be written for him and ten sins will be erased. and this prayer he makes will earn him a reward equal to the reward of freeing ten believing slaves. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Lays b. We know from the narration of Sa'd. We do not know whether Umara heard hadiths from the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam).
3878-) Zir b. According to the narration from Hubaysh (radiyallahu anh), he said: Saffan b. I had come to ask Assal al-Muradi about the ruling on wiping over the meshes, and he said to me: “O Zir! What brought you here?" And I said: "To get information". Thereupon, Safwan said: “Surely, angels stretch their wings to protect those who strive to acquire knowledge, being content with whatever they want.” I said: "I will ask, and the thing that hurts my heart is this and said: "How will it be to wipe over the mests after breaking the big and small wudu?" You are one of the Companions of the Prophet. I have come to ask you about this matter, have you heard anything from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about it?" Safwan said: “Yes”; “When we were traveling with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), or when we were guests in a place, he used to order us not to take off my knuckles for three days and three nights due to small ablution, great ablution and sleep, except for janaba.” Then I asked: "Did you hear anything from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) about love?" I asked. Safwan said: “Yes”; We were with the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) on a journey when suddenly a Bedouin shouted loudly, "O Muhammad!" yell. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied in a voice close to his voice: "Come on". He said, "Shame on that Bedouin, lower your voice to you, because you are in the presence of the Prophet, even though we said that it is forbidden to speak loudly, I swear I will not lower my voice." Then that Bedouin said: “A person loves a community but has not joined them yet.” Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “On the Day of Judgment, a person will be with his loved ones.” and told us some things. Finally, he said: “Sufyan mentioned a door on the west side (Sufyan said on the side of Damascus) that the width of this door is equal to the forty or seventy years of walking for a person with a thousand horses. Allah opened this door for repentance on the day He created the heavens and the earth. It will not close until the sun rises in the west, that is, until the Day of Judgment.” (Nesai, Tahara: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3879-) Zir b. According to the narration from Hubaysh (radiyallahu anh), he said: Safwan b. I came to Assal al Muradiye and he said to me, "Why did you come here?" And I said: "To get information". Thereupon Safwan said: According to what I learned from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam): "Angels stretch their wings to protect anyone who wishes to acquire knowledge because they are pleased with him." Then I said to him: "There are some things that bother me about wiping on the mest, is there anything you have learned from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)?" Safwan said: “Yes”; “He ordered us not to take off our maws for three days and three nights due to bad ablution, breaking ablution, and sleeping while we were on a journey or visiting.” Then I said: “Did you hear from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about love?” Safwan said: “Yes”; “While I was with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) on a journey, a rude and rude Bedouin shouted, O Muhammad! O Mohammed! He called our Prophet. The companions said to him: Shut up, lower your voice; We said that it is forbidden to do this. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied in a voice close to his voice: "Come and see." That Bedouin replied, "A person loves a community but has not yet mixed in with them." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "A person is with his loved ones": Zir says: Safwan explained that at the end, Allah created a door with a distance of seventy years in the west for repentance, that it would not be closed until the sun rose from the west, and that Allah's He told me that the 158th verse of the chapter of Enam is about this repentance: “Do those who ascribe deity to other than Allah wait for angels to come to them or for your Lord to come to believe, or for some of the verses of your Lord to come? However, on the day when some signs of his Lord that will compel them to believe, if he did not believe before or if he did not gain a favor with his belief, his belief that day will not benefit him. Say: Wait for the Hereafter, you unbelievers! We are also waiting for what will happen to you.” (Nesai, Tahara: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3880-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Allah accepts the repentance of his servant as long as the soul does not reach the throat.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 17) This hadith is hasan garib.
3881-) Muhammed b. Beşşar conveyed a similar hadith to us from Abdurrahman through Abu Amir al-Akdi with the same deed.
3882-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “When one of you repents, Allah makes him happy more than he does when he finds something he has lost.” (Muslim, Salat: 27; Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 17) Ibn Mas'ud, Numan b. Hadith was also narrated from Bashir and Anas. This hadith is hasan sahih as it is narrated by Abu'z Zinad. Makhûl narrated this hadith in a similar way with the narration of Abu Dharr.
3883-) According to a narration from Abu Ayyub (radiy-Allâhu anh): When Abu Ayyub approached his death, he said: “I had hidden one thing from you and that was: I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: If you were a people who would not sin, Surely, Allah would create a community that sinned, and they would sin and repent to Allah. Allah would forgive them.” (Muslim, Tawba: 27) This hadith is hasan garib.
3884-) This hadith was written by Muhammad b. It was narrated from Ka'b in a similar way from Abu Ayyub. Likewise, Kutaybe, Abdurrahman b. From Omar, the freed slave of Gafre, through Ebi'z Zinad, from Muhammad b. It was narrated from Ka'b and Abu Ayyub in a similar way.
3885-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Allah: O son of Adam! As long as you pray for me and hope for me, I forgive your mistakes and I don't care. O Ademoglu! Even if your sins reach the clouds of the sky, if you ask forgiveness from me, I will forgive you and I will not mind anything. O Ademoglu! If you had not come to me with a world full of mistakes and did not associate anything with me, I would certainly welcome you with a world full of forgiveness.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. But this is how we know it.
3886-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Allah created a hundred mercy and placed a mercy among His creations, that is why humans and animals show mercy to one another. Ninety-nine mercy is with Allah.” (Bukhari, Adab: 27; Muslim, Tawba: 17) Ibn Salman, Jundup b. Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Sufyan al-Beceli. This hadith is hasan authentic.
3887-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If a believer knew the punishment in the sight of Allah, no one would covet Paradise, and if the unbeliever knew the mercy of Allah, they would never no one would despair of Paradise.” (Muslim, Tawba: This hadith is hasan. We know it from the narration of Ala from his father and Abu Hurayra.
3888-) According to a narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "When Allah created all His creations, He wrote on himself: "My mercy has exceeded my wrath." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih.
3889-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered the mosque and a man was praying and saying: “O Allah, there is no god but you, but you. You are the one who gives a lot.” O Creator of the heavens and the earth, O Celal and the owner of honor.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do you know how he prayed to Allah?” Then he asked himself: “That person prayed to Allah with the prayer of his name azam. When prayed with this, Allah accepts and when asked with these prayers, Allah gives.” (Ibn Maje, Prayer: 27) Sabit b. As the narration of Anas, this hadith is strange. Apart from this form, this hadith was narrated from Anas.
3890-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Let the nose of the person who does not bring me salawat when my name is mentioned with him, rub his nose on the ground. Anyone who enters the month of Ramadan and leaves without having his sins forgiven should have his nose rubbed on the ground. Let the nose of the person who cannot enter Paradise be rubbed on the ground because his parents did not please them despite their aging.” Abdurrahman says: "I think he was one of his parents". (Musnad: 7139) A hadith was also reported from Jabir and Anas on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib as it is. b. Ibrahim, Ismail b. He is Ibrahim's brother and is a reliable person. He is also called Ibn Ulayya. The following is reported from scholars: "If a person brings peace to the Prophet once in a meeting, it is enough for that person until the end of the meeting."
3891-) Ali b. According to the narration from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “A miser is a person whose name is mentioned in his presence, but he does not bring me peace.” (Musnad: 1645) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3892-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Ebî Awfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to pray: “O Allah! Cool my heart with snow, hail and cold water. my god! Cleanse my heart from faults as you cleansed the white dress of dirt.” (Nesai, Ghusl: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3893-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “To whom the door of prayer has been opened, the doors of mercy have been opened for him. Nothing more beloved has been asked of God than asking for well-being.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) continued his speech as follows: "Dua is beneficial against the scourge that descends and the calamity that does not come down. O servants of Allah, hold fast to prayer." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Only Abdurrahman b. We know from the narration of Abu Bakr al-Qurashi that this person is weak in hadith. Some hadith scholars considered him weak in terms of memory.
3894-) Israel reported this hadith from Abdurrahman b. Abi Bakr, Musa b. Narrated by Uqba, Nafi' and Ibn Omar, they quoted it as follows: "Nothing more beloved than good health is asked from Allah."
3895-) It is narrated from Bilal (radiy-Allâhu anh) that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Do not neglect the night prayer. Because it is the custom of the righteous people before you. Night prayer is closeness to Allah, forbids sins, expiates evil deeds and expels disease from the body.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We know it through Bilal's narration and only in this way. It is weak in terms of stock. Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail, he was saying: Muhammad al-Qurashi, Muhammad b. Said ash Shami. Ibn Abi Qays and Muhammad b. Hassan is this person himself and his hadiths have been abandoned. b. Salih reported this hadith from Rabia b. Narrated by Yazid, Abu Idris al-Havlani, and Abu Umama, they said: "Continue to worship at night! Because it is the custom of righteous people before you. It brings you closer to your Lord, expiation for sins, and forbids sins.” (This hadith narrated by Abu Idris from Bilal is more authentic.
3896-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "The lifetime of my ummah is between seventy and sixty. Those who will exceed seventy of them are very few.” (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. We only know this way. Muhammed b. As Amr's narration from Abu Salama and Abu Huraira... It was also narrated in a different way than Hurayra.
3897-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray as follows: "My Lord, help me, do not help me in things that will be against me. Help me, don't help me. Give me victory, do not give victory to those who are against me, make things happen for my sake. Don't do it in a way that hurts me. Guide me and make guidance easy for me. Do not withhold from me your help against those who attack me. O my Lord, make me a person who is very grateful to you, remembers you a lot, fears your punishment very much, obeys you a lot, bows only for you, turns to you and prays. O my Lord, accept my repentance, cleanse my sins and mistakes, accept my prayer. Make my proof firm, make my tongue true. Guide my heart, and hatred and envy will come out of my sky.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27; Ibn Majah, Dua: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3898-) Mahmud b. Gaylân, Muhammed b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Bishr al-Abdi and Sufyan.
3899-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever curses those who persecute him will certainly be helped.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange, and we know this hadith only through the narration of Abu Hamza. Some scholars have spoken back and forth about Abu Hamza. He is called Maimun al A'ver.
3900-) Qutayba, Humayd b. They narrated a similar hadith from Abu'l Ahves and Abu Hamza through Abdurrahman er Revasi in the same deed.
3901-) According to the narration from Abu Ayyub al-Ansari (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: 'Whoever said ten times: "There is no true god but Allah, there is only Allah. He is the only one, he has no partner, the sultanate belongs to Him, all kinds of praise are for him, He is the one who gives life and kills. If he says, "His power is enough for all things," Ismail gains the reward as if he freed four slaves from his offspring. (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim: Zikr: 17) This hadith was also narrated from Abu Ayyub as mawkuf.
3902-) According to the narration from Safiye (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered us. In front of me were four thousand seeds, which I counted as a rosary. I said: I have glorified Allah by counting with them. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Shall I teach you something that will earn you more rewards than the things you glorify?" I said yes, too. They said: "Say: I glorify the number of Allah's creations." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange and we only know it through Safiyya's narration that Hashim b. It was narrated by Said al Kufi. The deed is not well known. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject.
3903-) According to the narration from Juwayriyya bint Haris (radiyallahu anha), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stopped by me while I was praying in the mosque. He found me in the same state when he stopped by at about half of the day and said: Are you still in the same condition as you were in the morning? she asked. I said yes, too. Then they said: I will teach you some words so that you will not stay here for a long time. Subhanallah by the number of His creations, Subhanallah by the number of His creations, Subhanallah by the number of His creations. Subhanallah as much as he is pleased with. Subhanallah as much as he is pleased with. Subhanallah, as much as the weight of the throne. Subhanallah, as much as the weight of your throne. Subhanallah as much as the weight of your arsh, Subhanallah as much as the ink of your words Subhanallah, as much as the ink of your words Subhanallah.” (Muslim, Zikr: Ibn Mâce, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Abdurrahman is the freed slave of the Talha family. He is an old man from Medina, a trusted person. Mas'udi and Thawri narrated this hadith from him.
3904-) According to the narration from Salman al-Farisi (radiy-Allâhu anh), it is reported that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Allah is very modest and generous. When a person raises his hands and prays to Him, he is ashamed of turning them away.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27; Ibn Majah, Adab.: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. Some of them have narrated this hadith without merfu.
3905-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), a man was praying by pointing with two fingers. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) warned him: "With one finger, with one finger." (Nesai, Sahv: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. The meaning of the hadith is as follows: A person should point with one finger during tashahhud in prayer.
3906-) Muâz b. According to what Rifaa (radiyallahu anh) told us from his father, he said: Abu Bakr es Siddiq stood up on the pulpit and wept and said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood up on this pulpit a year ago and cried and said: : “Ask Allah for forgiveness and to be in good health. Because no one has been given anything better than good health after sound faith.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) As such, this hadith is garib as the narration of Abu Bakr al-Siddiq.
3907-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "A person who asks for forgiveness from Allah is not considered to have insisted on the sin he repented from even if he committed it seventy times a day, because he would not commit that sin again. ” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 17) This hadith is strange. We know it from the narration of Abu Nadra. It's not very solid.
3908-) According to the narration from Abu Umama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Umar b. Hattab was wearing a new dress and said: "Praise be to Allah, he made me wear a dress that will cover my private parts and that I can continue my business well." He prayed and gave his old dress as charity. Then he said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) that he said: "Whoever puts on a new dress, prays by saying, "Praise be to Allah, he has made me wear a dress that will cover my private parts and I can continue my business" and gives charity on his old dress. that person, alive and dead, will definitely be under the protection and protection of Allah.” (Ibn Majah, Libas: 17) This hadith is strange. hadith of Yahya b. Abi Eyyub, Ubeydullah b. Zahr, Ali b. It was narrated from Yazid, Qasim and Abu Umama.
3909-) Omar b. According to the narration from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had sent a detachment to the side of Najd, and they came back after obtaining a lot of booty. Thereupon, someone who was not in that detachment said: "We have never seen a detachment that returned faster than this detachment and came with more loot." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Be careful! Shall I show you a community that is faster in terms of booty?” A group of people who are present at the morning prayer and then sit and remember Allah until the sun rises. Here they are; It is a community with a quick return and abundant income. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib and we know it only as it is. Hammad b. Ebî Humeyd is Ebû İbrahim el Ensari el Muzeni and Muhammed b. Abu Humayd al Madani. He is weak in hadith.
3910-) According to the narration from Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), Umar asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) for permission to go to Umrah, upon which the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “O my brother, do not forget us in your prayers. ” he said. (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27; Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3911-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), a slave under a contract said: “I am unable to pay the contract price, help me”. Ali replied: “Be careful! Let me teach you some of the prayers that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) taught me: Even if you owe as much as a mountain of Sabr, Allah will easily make you pay for it. Pray like this: "O Allah, get rid of the haram and make him satisfied with the halal. Do not make me dependent on anyone with your grace.” (Musnad: 1250) This hadith is hasan garib.
3912-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I got sick and while I was praying, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stopped by me: “O Allah, if my time has come, take my life and give me comfort. If my death is further away, save me from this disease. If this is my test, give me patience. How did you say to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)? He said: Ali repeated what he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) poked me with his foot, and O Allah, give it relief, (or Shu'ba who doubts.) heal me. Ali said: After this prayer of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), I was not disturbed again.” (Musnad: 1005) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3913-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) visited a sick person, he used to pray as follows: “O Allah, the Lord of the people, relieve the distress, heal, and send a cure. You are the only healer, there is no cure other than your healing, heal with a healing that leaves no disease, O my Lord." (Musnad: 533) This hadith is hasan.
3914-) Ali b. According to the narration from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray as follows in the vitr prayer: “O Allah, I seek refuge in your pleasure from your wrath, I seek refuge in your forgiveness from your punishment. I seek refuge from you. I can't find the words to praise you. You are as you praise yourself.” (Nesai, Kıyam-ül Leyl: 27; Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan garib as a narration from Ali. However, in this form and Hammad b. We know from the Salama narration.
3915-) Mus'ab b. Sa'd (radiyallahu anh) and Amr b. According to the narration from Maymun (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), they said: Just as teachers teach young children to read and write at school, Sa'd taught his children the following prayer that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) made after the fard prayer: I seek refuge in You from the dementia of old age, the troubles of the world, and the torment of the grave." (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Nesâî, İstiaze: 17) his teacher Abdullah b. Abdurrahman said: Abu Ishaq al-Hamadani is confused in this hadith. Sometimes Amr b. He says from Omar through Maymun, and sometimes by citing other narrators, he falls into confusion. This hadith is hasan authentic as it is.
3916-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Ebî Vakkâs (radiy-Allâhu anh), Sa'd and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered next to a woman, and in front of this woman were date seeds or pebbles that she used for rosary. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Shall I tell you what is easier and more valuable than this? “The number of creatures in the sky is subhanallah, and the number of creatures on earth is subhanallah. Subhanallah by the number of creations between both of them. Subhanallah as much as the number of things he will create. All these are as many as Allahu Akbar. You say Alhamdulillah as much as the number of all these, and again, la hawla vela power, illa billah, as much as the number of all these.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27) As Sa'd's narration, this hadith is hasan garib.
3917-) Zubayr b. According to a narration from Avvam (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Every morning an officer comes out for the servants of Allah and says: Allah is the Owner of everything and the realm of existence. It is unique to him to be unique and single. And glorify this God.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib.
3918-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abi Talib came and said: “May my parents be sacrificed for you, O Messenger of Allah! This Quran is disappearing from my chest and I cannot prevent it.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said to him, "O Abu'l Hasan, shall I teach you some words? So that Allah will benefit you with these words, those things in you will benefit others and place what you have learned in your heart. Ali: Yes, O Messenger of Allah! teach me,” he said. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If you can get up in the last third of the night on Friday night, this is the hour when the angels are present, and your prayer is accepted at this hour. My brother Yakup Prophet also said to his children: "I will pray to my Lord for you in the future" (Surah Yusuf: 98), which means when it comes to Friday night. If you can't afford it, get up in the middle of the night, and if you can't do that, get up at the beginning of the night and pray four rak'ahs. In the first rak'ah, read Surah Yasin with Fatiha. In the second rak'ah, read Hâ mim, Surah Duhan. In the third rak'ah, read Surah Fatiha and Elif lam mim Sajda, and in the fourth rak'ah, you read Surah Tebareke together with Fatiha. When you finish tashahhud, praise Allah, praise Allah in the best way, and bring me salawat in a beautiful way. Then bring peace to all the Prophets. Then ask forgiveness of all believing men and women, and ask forgiveness for all your brothers and sisters who have passed before you, and then say: O Allah, do not involve me in evil as long as you keep me alive. Spare me from envying things that do not concern me. Grant me to bow down to what you agree with. O my God, O Creator of the heavens and the earth incomparably, O Lord of Majesty and honour! O my God! You are the unreachable power. O my God, the Most Merciful, O my God, I ask for your glory. For the light of your face, I want you to memorize the Qur'an as you taught me. Grant me to read that book in a way that will please you with me. O Allah, the unique and incomparable creator of the heavens and the earth, my Allah, the Owner of Majesty, the Bounty and the Glory, no power can reach your strength. O Allah, O Most Merciful, I want you to enlighten my eyes with your majesty, the light of your face and your book. I want you to make my tongue speak with it, to relieve the distress in my heart with it, to open my heart with it, to repair my body with it, as no one helps me in the cause of the right and only you give the right, there is no power other than you, but you exist, you are great and your nation. O Abu'l Hasen, if you do this on three or five or seven Fridays, your prayer will definitely be accepted by Allah's leave. I swear by Allah, who sent me with the truth, that this prayer has never strayed from the believer. Abdullah b. Abbas said: By Allah, Ali came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) at such a meeting after five or seven Fridays had passed, and O Messenger of Allah, before that, I was memorizing only four verses, and more than ten of them would disappear from me. Today, he memorizes forty verses and while reading them, it is as if the book is in front of my eyes. As a matter of fact, I would listen to a hadith and when I would transfer it to someone else, it would disappear from me. Today, however, I hear hadiths and when I transfer them to someone else, I can tell them without missing a single letter. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "O Abu'l Hasen, by the Lord of the Ka'ba, you are a true believer." (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is hasan garib and only Walid b. We know it as a Muslim narration.
3919-) According to a narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Ask for the bounty of Allah. Because Allah loves to be asked, the most valuable worship is to wait for the problem to be solved.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) Likewise, Hammad b. Waqid narrated this hadith in this way. This claim has been challenged. b. Vakid: This person called Saffar is not a hafiz. We think he is an old man from Basra. Abu Nuaym reported this hadith from Israel, Hakim b. He narrated it as a mursal from Jubayr and an unnamed person. The hadith of Abu Nuaym is in a position to be more authentic.
3920-) Zayd b. According to a narration from Erkam (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to pray as follows: "O Allah, I seek refuge in You from laziness, weakness and stinginess." (Muslim, Zikr: 17)
3921-) In the same year, the following was narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "He used to seek refuge in Allah from the senility of old age and the torment of the grave." This hadith is hasan authentic.
3922-) Cübeyr b. According to the narration from Nüfeyr (radiy-Allâhu anh), Ubade b. Samit relates that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Whatever a Muslim prays on earth, whether he is about to commit a sin or to cut off relations with his relatives, Allah gives him what he wants in that prayer or removes from him what he wants to be removed. ” Thereupon, one of those present said: "Then we increase the prayer." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Allah's bounty is even greater." (Musnad: 21720) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. Ibn Sevban, Abdurrahman b. fixed b. He is Sevban al-Abid ash Shami.
3923-) According to what is reported from Bara (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: When you go to bed, perform ablution like a prayer, then lie on your right side and say: “O Allah, I have surrendered myself to you, I have entrusted my affairs to you. I leaned my back on you, fearing your punishment and hoping for your Paradise. It is possible to be protected from your punishment only by taking shelter in you. Pray, "I believe in the book you sent down and the Prophet you sent." If you die that night, you will die in Islam. Bara said: I kept repeating the words of this prayer to memorize it thoroughly and; I said, "I believe in the Messenger you sent." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "I believe in the Prophets you sent". (Bukhari, Voodoo': 27; Muslim, Zikir: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated in a different way and only in this narration there is the addition of "make ablution as you do for prayer".
3924-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Hubayb's father, he said: We went out in search of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) to pray for us on a dark and rainy night. I've grown up with him. He said read. I couldn't read anything, he said read it again. I didn't read anything again, what should I read when I say read it again? Said. They said, "If you read the suras of Ihlas, Nas and Felak three times in the morning and evening, it is enough for you against everything." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. Ebû Said el Berrad, Esîd b. Abî Esîd is from Medina.
3925-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Busr (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to my father as a guest. We offered him food, after he ate dates were brought to him. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ate the date and threw the pit with his two fingers. He joined the index finger and middle finger and (Shu'ba says: This hadith shows that throwing the core of the date with two fingers.) He threw the core of the date with two fingers. (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) drank from it and gave it to the person on his right. My father grabbed the bridle of the camel of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said, "Pray for us". The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) prayed, "O Allah, make the sustenance you have given them abundant, forgive them and spare them." (Muslim, Esribe: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. It has also been narrated from Busr in a different way.
3926-) Bilal b. Yesâr b. According to what is reported from Zayd (radiy-Allâhu anh), he narrated to us that the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If he says, “He is always alive and in need of no one but He seeks forgiveness from the great God, who has no god but Him, and I repent, he fled from the war.” Even if it is, God forgives him.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 17) This hadith is garib and is known only in this way.
3927-) Osman b. According to the narration from Hunayf (radiy-Allâhu anh), a blind man came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “Pray for me that Allah will grant me well-being.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I can pray if you want, but it is better for you to be patient." The man said: "Pray". Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) ordered him to make ablution well and to pray with the following prayers: "O Allah, I ask you with your Prophet Muhammad, the Prophet of Mercy, and I turn to you. For this need, I turn to my Lord. O Allah, make your Prophet intercede for me.” (Ibn Majah, Iqame: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih. However, we know it in this form through the narration of Abu Cafer al-Hatmi. Osman b. Hunayf Sahl b. He is the brother of Hunayf.
3928-) Amr b. According to the narration from Abese (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: He himself heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “The closest the Lord is to his servant is in the last half of the night. If you are able to be one of those who remember Allah at those times, be one of those who remember Allah…” (Nesai, Mavakît: 27; İbn Mâce, İkame: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3929-) Imara b. According to a narration from Za'kere (radiyallahu anh), he heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: Allah says: "One of my servants, my true servant, remembers me and always remembers me, even until he meets me in battle and becomes a martyr." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We only know this way. It's not very solid. Imara b. We know Za'kere only by the narration of this hadith. The meaning of the word "mulaqin kirnehu" in the hadith: he remembers me even during the war.
3930-) Kays b. Sa'd b. According to the narration from Ubade (radiy-Allâhu anh), he gave his father, Qays, to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to serve. Qays said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) stopped by me, I had prayed, should I show you one of the gates of Paradise by poking me with his foot? I said yes, too. He said: "La hawle vela quwwata illa billah = it is only with Allah's permission that we can exert effort and strength." (Musnad: 14932) This hadith is authentic as it is.
3931-) Saffan b. According to the narration from Sulaym (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: There is no angel who descends to the earth, who will surely say: “It is only by Allah's leave that we can exert effort and strength.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
3932-) It was narrated from Yuseyra (radiyallahu anha). She was one of the women who migrated to Yuseyra and said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to us: "Do not neglect the rosary, tehlil and blessing, and draw your glorification with your fingers. Because they too will be questioned and made to speak. Do not be heedless, and then you will forget mercy.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27) It means Subhanallah. It means la ilaha illallah. Subhanel melikil kuddus or Subbuhün means Kuddusun Rabbuna and Rabbul gives melaiketi spirit. This hadith is garib. Only Hani b. We know from the narration of Osman. Muhammed b. Rabia, Hani b. It was narrated from Osman.
3933-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was going to fight, he used to pray: "O Allah, you are my support, you are my helper, I am fighting the enemies with the strength you gave me." (Abu Dawud, Jihad: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. The meaning of the word Azudi is helper and support.
3934-) Amr b. According to the narration from the father and grandfather of Shuayb (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The best prayer is the one made on the day of Arafa. The best thing I have said and what the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) before me said is: There is no true god but Allah. There is only He. He is the only one. He has no partner. Reign is His. All full praise is due to Him. He is all-powerful.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form. Hammad b. Abu Humayd, Muhammed b. Abu Humayd. Also called Abu Ibrahim al-Ansari. He is from Medina. It is not very strong compared to hadith scholars.
3935-) Omar b. According to a narration, Khattab (radiyallahu anh) said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) reminded me of this prayer: Say: "O Allah, make my inside better than my outside. Make my exterior useful too. O Allah, I ask you for the good and the best of what you have given to people in terms of property, family and children, and not to be the one who goes astray or misleads.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib and we know it only as it is. It's not very solid either.
3936-) According to the narration from Kulaybil Cermi's (radiy-Allâhu anh) father and grandfather, he said: I went to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and he was praying. He put his left hand on his left thigh, folded his fingers, opened the finger of martyrdom and said: "O Allah, who turns hearts into a state, make my heart steadfast according to your religion." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form.
3937-) Muhammed b. As reported by Salim (radiyallahu anh), Thabit al-Bunani said to me: "O Muhammad!" said. When you are in pain, put your hand where you are hurting and pray as follows: “I seek refuge in the power and might of Allah from the evil of this suffering in the name of Allah. Then raise your hand. Then repeat the same thing one by one. Because Enes b. Malik narrated to us that he had told us about it from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Muhammed b. Sâlim is an old man from Basra.
3938-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) taught me and said: Say: "O Allah, the adhan tonight begins, the day ends, and the sounds of your call and the sound of your call. It is the entrance of prayer time. I ask you to forgive me.” (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27) This hadith is strange. But this is how we know it. We do not know either Hafsa bint ebî Kathir herself or her father.
3939-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If a person says, “La ilaha illallah” with complete sincerity, the gates of the sky will open for him as long as he avoids major sins. The word reaches the Throne.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
3940-) Ziyâd b. According to a narration from Alaka's (radiyallahu anh) uncle, he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "O Allah! I seek refuge in You from the bad deeds and desires of morals." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Ziyd b. Alaka's uncle, Qutbe b. He is Malik.
3941-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While he was praying with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), a man from the congregation said: “Allah is the greatest of the elders. Countless praises are due to Allah. I praise and glorify Allah morning and evening,” he said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "Who was it who said such and such?" he commanded. One of the congregation; He said, "It is me, O Messenger of Allah." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I admired him, the gates of the sky were opened for him." Ibn Umar says: I have not stopped using these words since the day I heard them from the Messenger of Allah. (Muslim, Masajid: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih in its form. Haccac b. Ebû Osman, Haccac b. Meysere es Savvaf. He is tagged as Abu's Salt. He is a trusted person with hadith scholars.
3942-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) visited Abu Dharr on the occasion of his illness. Or Abu Dharr had visited the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) because of his illness; “May my parents be sacrificed for you, O Messenger of Allah! Which word is more beloved to Allah? Said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: The word Allah has chosen for his angels is this: "I glorify my Lord with His praise. I glorify my Lord with his praise.” (Muslim, Masajid: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3943-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The prayer made between the adhan and the iqama is not rejected." Thereupon, the Companions said: “O Messenger of Allah! So what prayer should we do?" they said. He said: "Ask Allah for forgiveness and well-being, both in this world and in the hereafter." (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27) This hadith is hasan. In this hadith: “Then what prayer should we do? The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said, “Wish forgiveness and well-being in this world and in the hereafter.” Yahya b. He added yeman.
3944-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The prayer made between the adhan and the iqama cannot be rejected.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Salat: 27) Ebû İshâk el Hamadani, Burayde b. Abî Meryem narrated from al-Kûfi and Anas, and this narration is more authentic.
3945-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Those who were disaffected have passed away. O Messenger of Allah! Who are the Muferridun?" they said. He said: “Those who are fond of remembering Allah and never forgetting Him, come to Allah's presence very light and freed from their burdens when Allah removes their sins for this good deed. (Musnad: 7940) The hadith is hasan garib.
3946-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Exalted be Allah, Praise be to Allah, there is no true god but Allah. I do not say, "There is only God, and He is the greatest," he is dearer to me than anything on which the sun rises. (Muslim, Zikr: 17)
3947-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The prayers of three people are not turned down. The fasting person, until he breaks his fast, is the prayer of the just ruler and the oppressed, that Allah will lift him above the clouds. He opens the gates of the sky on him and says: For the sake of my glory, I will definitely help you, even if it is a short time.” (Ibn Majah, Siamese: 17) This hadith is hasan. Sa'dan al-Kummi, Sa'dan b. Bishr. The notables of the hadiths, Isa b. Yunus and Abu Asim narrated hadith from him. He is Abu Mucalid Sa'd et Tai. Abu Müdelleh is Aisha's freed slave. We know him only in this hadith. This hadith was narrated from him in a longer and different way.
3948-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “O Allah, make me benefit from the knowledge you have taught me, and teach me the knowledge that will benefit me. increase my knowledge. Thank you always and on the ground. I seek refuge in Allah from the condition of the people of Hell." (Ibn Majah, Dua: 27) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
3949-) According to the narration from Abu Said and Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There are angels of Allah that roam the earth besides the angels who write down the good deeds and sins of people. When they see the communities that are constantly on the agenda, they call to run to what you are looking for, and they come there and surround them all around until the world sky. Allah asks those angels: In what state did you leave my servants? And they say: They praise you, consider you the greatest and always keep you on the agenda. Allah says: Did they see me? Angels: No, they answer. Allah: What would their situation be like if they had seen me? Angels: If they had seen you. Undoubtedly, they would praise you more, consider you great more, and more often keep you on the agenda. Allah: What do my servants want? He commands. Angels: They say they want heaven. Allah: Have they seen Paradise? commands. Angels: They say no. Allah: What would it be like if they had seen it? He commands. Angels say: If they had seen Paradise, they would want it more and would be ambitious. Allah: From what do they seek refuge? der. Angels: They say from Hell. Allah: Have they seen Hell? commands. Angels: They say no. God: what would the situation be like if they did? says. The angels say: If they had seen Hell, they would certainly run away from it more, fear it more, and take refuge in Allah more than it does. Allah: Bear witness that I have forgiven them. Angels say: There are sinners in that community who do not come there willingly, but are there for a need. Allah: They are such a people that those who are with them will not be deprived of forgiveness.” (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Zikr: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has also been narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways.
3950-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told me: "Our strength and power are only with Allah." Mekhul said: "Whoever says that our strength and power is only with Allah, and salvation from Allah's punishment is only possible by taking shelter in Him," Allah closes seventy doors of harm to that person, and the least of these doors is poverty. (Musnad: 8054) The certificate of this hadith is not absolute. Makhul did not hear any hadith from Abu Huraira.
3951-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Every prophet has a prayer that will be accepted. I saved this prayer for my ummah as intercession. My intercession will definitely reach those who die without associating partners with Allah.” (Bukhari, Deavat: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3952-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Allah says: “I am a treater according to my servant's guesses, I am with him as long as he keeps me on the agenda. If he remembers me in his heart, I will remember him to myself. If he has put me on the agenda in a community, I will remember him among a better society than them. If he approaches me an inch, I will approach him a cubit. If one cubit approaches me, I approach him one fathom. If he comes to me walking, I will come to him running.” (Bukhari, tawhid: 27; Muslim, dhikr: 17) This hadith is hasan. Regarding the interpretation of the hadith, it is reported from A'mesh: “Whoever comes close to me by an inch, I will approach him by a cubit; It means my forgiveness and mercy.” Some scholars interpret the approach here with forgiveness and mercy and say the following: "If a servant approaches Allah with obedience and the worship he has ordered, Allah's forgiveness and mercy will almost run towards him."
3953-) Said b. Jubayr said about the 152nd verse of Bakara: Whoever remembers me with obedience, I will remember and meet that person with my forgiveness. Abd b. Humayd, Hasan b. From Musa, Amr b. From Ibn Lehia through Hashim er Remli, Ata b. From Yesâr and Said b. He narrated this hadith from Jubayr in the same way.
3954-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Seek refuge in Allah from the torment of Hell. Take refuge in Allah from the torment of the grave. Take refuge in Allah from the fitna of the Messiah Dajjal. Take refuge in Allah from the fitna of death and the fitna of living people.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3964-) Vasile b. According to a narration from Aska (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “Allah chose Ishmael from among the sons of Ibrahim. Ishmael chose the sons of Kinana out of his sons. He chose Quraysh among the Kinanaoğulları. He chose Banî Hashim from the Quraysh. He chose me from Bani Hashim” (Muslim, Fedail 27) This hadith is hasan.
3965-) Vasile b. According to the narration from Aska (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Allah chose hatred from among the sons of Ishmael and chose Quraysh from Kinana. He chose Hashim from Quraysh. He chose me from among the sons of Hashim.” (Muslim, Fedail 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
3966-) Abbas b. According to the narration from Abdulmuttalib (radiyallahu anh), he said: "O Messenger of Allah! The Quraysh sat down and talked among themselves about their ancestry, and they compared you to a date tree like trash that grows on its own.” Thereupon, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Allah created the creatures and made me one of the best of them and the best of the two sects (Arab and Persian). Then he created tribes. He made me one of the best of the tribes. Then he created good families and made me from the good family Banu Hashim. I am the best of them as a person and the best of them as a family.” (Musnad: 1692) This hadith is hasan. b. Harîs is Abu Nawfel.
3967-) Abbas b. Abdulmuttalib b. According to the narration from Abi Vedaa (radiy-Allâhu anh), Abbas came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in anger as if he had heard something. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) climbed the pulpit and said: "Who am I?" The Companions said: You are the Messenger of Allah, peace be upon you. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I am Muhammad, son of Abdullah, son of Abdulmuttalib. Allah created His creatures and made me one of the best of them. Then he divided mankind (Arab, Persian) into two groups. He made me the best of them. Then he divided them into tribes and made me the best tribe (Quraysh). Then he divided them into families and made me the best of them as a family.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan.
3968-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Companions said: O Messenger of Allah! When did you become a prophet? The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "While Adam is between the corpse and the spirit." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. As Abu Huraira's narration, we know it only in this way. A hadith was also reported from Meyseretel Fajr on this subject.
3969-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I will be the first to be exhumed from the grave on the day when people will be taken to the place of Judgment. When people come to God, I am their preacher. I am the bringer of good news when they despair of everything. The flag of Hamd is in my hand that day. I am the most precious of the sons of Adam before my Lord, but I do not boast.” (Musnad: 12013) This hadith is garib.
3970-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I will be the first to wear one of the garments of Paradise, then I will stand on the right of the throne, then there is no one among the creatures who will stand in my position but me. ” (Musnad: 10549) This hadith is hasan garib.
3971-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Ask Allah for the means.” The Companions said: “O Messenger of Allah! What is the occasion?” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "It is the highest degree in Paradise and only one person will have it. I hope that person will be me.” (Musnad: 7281) This hadith is garib. It's not solid either. Ka'b is not a well-known person either. Leys b. We do not know that anyone other than Abu Sulaym narrated hadith from him.
3972-) Ubey b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “My example among the Prophets is like the situation of a person who builds a house, builds it in the best way possible, and leaves one brick floor missing. People walk around this building and admire it and say if that brick had been made too. My place among the prophets is like the place of that brick.” (Musnad: 20392)
3973-) It is also narrated that the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said in this year: “I am the Imam of the Prophets and the intercessor on the Day of Judgment, but there is no boasting.” This hadith is hasan.
3974-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), he heard the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) himself say: "When you hear the muezzin reciting the adhan, say exactly what he said. Then bring me salawat. Whoever brings me peace once, Allah will have mercy on that person ten times. Then wish me luck. occasion; It is a degree in Paradise that is worthy of only one of Allah's servants. I wish it was me too. Whoever wishes for the occasion, my intercession will be lawful for him.” (Muslim, Salat: 27; Nasai, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan. Bukhari says: Abdurrahman b. Jubayr is Qureshi. He is from Egypt and from Medina. Abdurrahman b. Cubeyr b. Nufayr is from Damascus.
3975-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: "On the Day of Judgment, I am the master of the sons of Adam, and the flag of Hamd is in my hand. Do not brag that day, Adam and the others will all be under my banner. I am the first person to be taken out of the grave, but there is no boasting." (Ibn Majah, Zuhd: 17) This hadith is longer than the one here. This hadith is hasan authentic. Hadith was narrated from Abu Nadre and Ibn Abbas.
3976-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Some of the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) were sitting to wait for him. When the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) came out and approached them, he heard them talking. Some of them were saying: “It is surprising that Allah took one of His creatures as a friend, while others made friends with Abraham, and it is more astonishing that Moses spoke to Allah. God spoke clearly to him. Another part is Jesus, the word and spirit of God. Others said that Adam is a distinguished human being who was created without a father.” The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) came to them and greeted them and said: Abraham is the friend of Allah and that is a fact. Moses was a distinguished person whom God spoke, and this is also true. Jesus is the spirit and word of God. Buddha is a truth. Adam: God chose it. This is also a fact. Beware, beloved of God, do not boast of me. I'm the one who will carry the flag of praise on the Day of Judgment. But no bragging… I am the first to move the rings of the gates of Heaven. Allah will open the door of Paradise for me and admit the believers and the poor who are with him into Paradise, but there is no boasting… I am the most valuable of the past and the future, but there is no boasting…” (Darimi, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is strange.
3977-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Selam (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “In the Torah, the characteristics of Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the characteristics of Isa, son of Mary, are written. It is also written that Isa will be buried together with Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). Abu Qutayba says: Abu Mawdud said: "There is only one grave room left in the Bliss Cell." (Dârimî, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. b. Zahhak also says the same. The famous and well-known Dahhak b. Osman el Madani.
3978-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The day the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to Medina, all parts of Medina were illuminated and illuminated. On the day of his death, all sides were in darkness. When we were to be buried, we left our hands on the ground, we couldn't recognize our hearts." (Ibn Majah, Cenaiz: 27) This hadith is garib authentic.
3979-) Kays b. According to the narration from Mahrema (radiyallahu anh), he said: “I and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) were born in the year when the elephant incident happened. Osman b. Affan one day Ya'mer b. The man of the sons of Leys, Qubas b. Are you bigger than my things or the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam)? Kubas replied: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) is older than me, but I am older than him at birth. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was born in the year of the elephant. My mother took me to the place where the elephant incident took place, but I saw the backs of elephants (or birds) as greenish." (Musnad: 17218) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Muhammad b. We know from the narration of Ishaq.
3980-) According to the narration from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abu Talib set out for Damascus for trade. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) also went out with the notables of Quraysh. When the priest arrived near Buhayra (or Bahira), Abu Talib unhooked the camels to stay. Previously, that priest would not go near the people in this caravan and was not interested, this time he went up to the people in this caravan and started to wander among them. When he came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) he took his hand and said: “This is the master of the worlds. He is the lord of these realms. Allah will send it as a mercy to the worlds.” The notables of Quraysh said, "How do you know?" The priest replied: When you crossed the hill, we did not prostrate, neither a tree nor a stone remained. They prostrate only to those who will be prophets. I also recognized the prophetic seal the size of a fruit between his two shoulder blades, and then he returned and prepared food for them. When he brought the food to them, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was with the camels and their belongings. The priest said, "Send news to him, and he will come." The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) appeared while he was on a cloud that overshadowed him. When he came and sat next to the crowd sitting under the shade of a tree, the shadow of the tree bent over him. The priest said, "Look, the shadow of the tree has bent over him." As the priest wandered among them; He wanted them not to take him to Damascus, to the land of the Greeks. Because if the Greeks knew him, they could have killed him. While the priest was here, seven people from the Greeks caught his eye. The priest welcomed them, and what is your reason for coming? she asked. And they said: This prophet, who is expected to come, came because he will appear in these months. We were not sent, there was no way and no direction left. The priest asked: Is there a better person behind you who is more knowledgeable than you? They said: "It has been reported that he may be in this region where you are located." Priest: He asked if any of the people could prevent something that Allah would do and that they would be able to do it. They answered no.” Then they accepted the knowledge and authority of that Priest and remained there. Priest: Tell the Quraysh, for God's sake, who is the guardian of this child? did they say? Abu Talib. Seeing the insistent action of the priest, Abu Talib gave up taking the prophet and sent him back with Abu Bakr and Bilal. The priest gave cake and olive oil as provisions to the Prophet and his companions. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. We only know this way.
3981-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The revelation began to descend on the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) when he was forty years old, and he stayed in Mecca for thirteen years and in Medina for ten years and was sixty-three years old. He passed away at the age of.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3982-) Again, according to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) died when he was sixty-five years old. Muhammed b. Bashar narrated it in this way, and Muhammad b. Ismail also narrated the same.
3983-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was neither very tall nor short enough to draw attention. It wasn't white as milky white. She wasn't black either. His hair was neither curly nor straight. God gave him the mission of prophethood at the age of forty. He stayed ten years in Mecca and ten years in Medina. He died at the age of sixty-five. At the time of his death, there were no more than twenty white hairs in his hair and beard.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3984-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There was a stone in Mecca. He used to greet me on the nights I was sent as a prophet. I still know that stone very well.” (Muslim, Fedail: 27) This hadith is hasan garib.
3985-) Samura b. According to what is reported from Jundub (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We ate with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) from a single vessel from morning until night; ten people would stand up and ten people would sit. Where and how do we multiply this food?” We said. Semure: "Look at what you were amazed at, the blessing in the cup was made from here," he said, and pointed to the sky with his hand. (Musnad: 19276) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ebû'l Ala's name is Yazîd b. Abdullah b. He is Shihhir.
3986-) Ali b. According to the narration from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I was with the Prophet in Mecca, we went on a tour of some regions around Mecca. Peace be upon you, O Messenger of Allah!” he was saying. (Dârimî, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is strange. many people, Walid b. Narrated by Sevr: “Abbad b. They said it was from Ebî Yazîd.
3987-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to deliver a sermon by leaning on the trunk of a date tree, then they made a pulpit and he delivered a sermon on the pulpit, which groaned like a camel. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) got down from the pulpit and stroked that log, and his voice was cut off.” (Musnad: 12884) Ubay, Jabir, Ibn Omar, Sahl b. Hadith was also narrated from Sa'd, Ibn Abbas, Umm Salama. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic.
3988-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: A bedouin came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said, "How will I know that you are a prophet?" The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "If I call the bunch of this date palm, it will testify that I am a prophet," and he called. A bunch of dates started to descend from the tree and came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and leaned on him. Then the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to return. The bunch of dates also turned and took their place on the tree. The Bedouin also became a Muslim.” (Dârimî, Mukaddime: 17) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
3989-) Ebû Zeyd b. According to a narration from Ahtab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) rubbed his hand on my face and rubbed it and prayed for me. Azra, one of the narrators of the hadith, said: Abu Zayd lived for one hundred and twenty years, yet he had a few white hairs in his hair and beard. (Musnad: 19807) This hadith is hasan garib. Abu Zayd's name was Amr b. Ahtab.
3990-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), Abu Talha said to Umm Sulaym that I found the voice of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) very weak, I think he was hungry. Is there anything to eat with him? said. Umm Sulaym replied: "Yes". Then he made some loaves of barley flour. After wrapping it with a piece of her hijab, she handed it to my hand and left some of it to herself, then sent me to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). I brought the bread to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). I found the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) sitting with his companions in the mosque, and I stood next to them. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: Did Abu Talha send you? I said yes, too. For food? he commanded. I said yes, too. Thereupon, stand up to those who were with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)! He commanded. They walked together. I walked past them. When I reached Abu Talha, I informed him of the situation. Abu Talha said: O Umm Sulaym! The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) came to us with his companions, and we have nothing to feed them. Umm Sulaym said, 'Allah and His Messenger know better. Abu Talha went and greeted the Prophet. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and Abu Talha entered. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "O Sulaym's mother, bring whatever you have with you. Umm Sulaym brought that bread. Bread was chopped upon the order of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Umm Sulaym wrung out her oil bag and made an additive what came out of it. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) recited something into this bowl as Allah wished. Then he said to Abu Talha, allow ten people. Abu Talha allowed ten people to eat. They went in, ate until they were full, and then left. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to allow ten more people. They also entered. They ate to their fullest and left. The whole congregation ate and was satisfied. That day that group was seventy or eighty people. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Esribe: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3991-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) when the afternoon prayer was approaching. People searched for ablution water but could not find it. Wudu water was brought to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) put his hand in that pot and ordered the Muslims to make ablution from that pot. Anas: I saw water gushing out from under the fingers of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). All Muslims performed their ablutions from the water in that bowl.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) Imran b. Husayn, İbn Mes'ûd, Câbir, Ziyâd b. Hadith was also narrated from Haris al-Sudai. The hadith of Anas is hasan authentic.
3992-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: “At the beginning of the prophethood, Allah treated him with his mercy and offered him the following: Every dream he saw in those days came out exactly like the morning light. It stayed like that for as long as God willed. Then he was made to love solitude. There was nothing sweeter to him in those days than being alone.” (Bukhari, Ta'bir: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan garib.
3993-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), he said: “You accept miracles as punishment. However, we used to accept it as a blessing in the time of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). While we were eating with the Prophet, we heard that the food glorified Allah. Once, water was brought to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) placed his hand in water and water began to gush from between his fingers. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Come on, let's make ablution. Come to the blessings descending from the sky. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3994-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), Haris b. Hisham asked the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “How does the revelation come to you?” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: “Revelation sometimes comes to me like the sound of bells, which is the most severe form for me. Sometimes the angel appears to me in human form and speaks to me, and I have memorized what he has said.” Aisha says: "I saw that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) received a revelation on a cold day, and sweat was flowing from his forehead." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3995-) It was narrated from Barâ (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: “I did not see anyone more beautiful than the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) among those who were dressed in red and whose hair fell down to their shoulders; her hair fell between her shoulders. He was broad between his shoulders, and his height was neither long nor short.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
3996-) According to the narration from Abu Ishaq (radiyallahu anh): "A man asked Bara, was the face of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) white like a sword?" she asked. Bera: “No! It was as bright as the moon,” he said. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Dârimî, Mukaddime: 17) This hadith is hasan.
3997-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was neither tall nor short, his palms and feet were full, his head was large, his joints were large, from his chest to his navel. elongated in the form of a hairline. When he walked, he would walk by leaning forward as if he was going downhill. I have never seen the like of him before or after him.” (Musnad: 706) This hadith is authentic.
3998-) Sûfyan b. Veki narrated a similar hadith from Mas'udi through his father, Vaki' in the same deed.
3999-) Ali b. Muhammad b. As reported from Ibrahim, Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) said while describing the characteristics of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was neither noticeably tall nor conspicuously short. He was of medium height, his hair was neither curly nor loose; It was medium curly. He wasn't stocky, his face was round. It was a reddish-white color. His hands and feet were full, when he walked he would walk as fast as if he were descending a slope, when he turned to one side, he would turn with his body, there was the seal of Prophethood between his two shoulder blades. He was the last of the prophets. He was the most generous of people. People's hearts were the most comfortable. His dialect was the most correct, the gentlest in nature, and his dealings with people the most gracious. Seeing him suddenly, he was afraid of him. The one with him loved him. When those who try to describe him are incapable of explaining; I have never seen anything like it before or after him.” (Musnad: 706) This hadith is hasan garib. The bill is not absolute. Cafer says: I heard El Asmaî say the following about the explanation of some words in this hadith, which mentions the characteristics of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam): Mumaggit: It means as long as possible. In his speech I heard from a Bedouin, he said: "Temaggatafi nüşşabetin" means that he extended the bowstring of his bow as far as possible. “El mutereddid” means one that is shortened and intertwined. The meaning of "Katat" is someone who has a little curl in their hair. “Al mutahham” means a large and fleshy person. “El Mükelsim” is a person with a round face. “Musrebun” means a person in pink color whose whiteness is mixed with red. “Ed'ac” is someone with a lot of black eyes. “Ehdebü” means a person with long eyelashes. “Keted” is the place where the shoulders meet, which is called Kahil. “Masruba” is a person with thick fingers and toes, “Şesn” like a thin branch extending from the chest to the navel. “Tekallu” is hard walking. Sabeb” is a hollow place. It is said that we descended from Sabub and Sabeb. “Celîlül mişaş” means knuckle bones. “El Aşîratü” means friendship and “Aşîr” means friend. “El Bediha” is the sudden attainment. It means that I delivered the work to him suddenly.
4000-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not utter the word as quickly as you do. But he would speak slowly and clearly so that anyone who was with him would memorize it.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 27) This hadith is hasan. We know this hadith only through the narration of Zuhri. Yunus b. Yazid narrated this hadith from Zuhri.
4001-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to repeat a word he spoke three times so that the listener could understand it more easily." (Bukhari, Science: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Abdullah b. We know from the story of Musenna.
4002-) Abdullah b. Haris b. According to a narration from Hazm (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I did not see the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) smile but smile.” (Musnad: 17043) This hadith is hasan garib. Yazid b. through Abi Habib Abdullah b. Haris b. A similar hadith was narrated from Jaz.
4003-) Abdullah b. Haris b. According to the narration from Jaz (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The smile of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was only a smile." (Musnad: 17043) This hadith is authentic. In this hadith, Lays b. We know that it is from Sa'd's narration only in this way.
4004-) According to the narration from Abu Saib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “My aunt took me to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and O Messenger of Allah! My sister's child was in pain," he said. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "He patted my head and prayed for blessings on me. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) performed ablution, I drank the residue of his wudu water and stood behind the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). I looked at the seal of Prophethood between his two shovels, it was the size of a partridge egg.” (Bukhari, Voodoo': 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) Zirr: It means egg. Salman, Kurre b. Iyas, Câbir b. Semure, Abu Rimse, Bureyde, Abdullah b. Sercis b. Hadith was also narrated from Ahtab and Abu Said. In this form, the hadith is hasan garib.
4005-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The seal of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was in the form of a reddish lump, the size of a pigeon's egg, between his two shoulder blades." (Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4006-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had very straight calves and legs, and he only smiled with a smile. (Musnad: 20012) This hadith is hasan garib. It is authentic as such.
4007-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: The whites of the eyes of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) were red, and his feet were not flat. (Muslim, Fedail: 27)
4008-) Again, Jabir b. According to a narration from Samura (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had a wide mouth, the white of his eye was red, and his feet were not flat. Shu'be says: What does "Daliul fem" mean to Simak? I asked. “Broad mouth,” he replied. What does "Eşkelün ayn" mean? Said. It means "the one with a wide slit," he said. (The fact that Simak is wrong about this is that his eyes are red and red.) What does "menhûşül akıb" mean? Said. “Heel with little meat,” he said. (Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4009-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I have never seen anyone with a better gait than the gait of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). It was as if the earth was being rolled up to him. We were trying our best to catch up with him, but he would have walked without any trouble.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib.
4010-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The Prophets were shown to me; I saw Moses as similar to the people of the Yemenite Shenua tribe. I saw Isa, son of Mary, who resembles him closest to Urwa b. He is Mas'ud. I saw Abraham I am the one who looks like him. I also saw Jibril in human form, he was similar to Dihya ibn caliph al-Kalbi.” (Muslim, Faith: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4011-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) died at the age of sixty-five." (Muslim, Fedail: 27)
4012-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sixty-five years old when he died." (Muslim, Fedail: 27) This hadith is hasan.
4013-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stayed in Mecca for thirteen years and received revelations. He passed away at the age of sixty-three.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) Aisha, Enes, Dağfel b. Hadith was also narrated from Hanzale. However, it is not certain that Dağfel saw the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and heard the hadith. The hadith of Ibn Abbas, Amr b. As the narration of Dinar, it is hasan garib.
4014-) Muaviye b. It was narrated from Abu Sufyan. Jarir said: “I heard Muawiya give a sermon and say: The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) died at the age of sixty-three. Abu Bakr and Umar died at the same age. I am now sixty-three years old.” (Muslim, Fedail: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4015-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) died at the age of sixty-three.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. His brother's son narrated this hadith from Zuhri, Urwa and Aisha in a similar way.
4016-) It is narrated from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh): He said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I inform every friend that I am far from their friendship. If I had made a friend, I would have taken Abu Kuhafe's son as a friend. Your Prophet; He is the friend of Allah.” (Muslim, Fedail-us Companions: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. Hadith on the subject was also narrated from Abu Said, Abu Huraira, Ibn Zubayr and Ibn Abbas.
4017-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Abu Bakr is our master and the best of us. He is the most beloved of us to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). (Bukhari, Menakib: 17) This hadith is authentic.
4018-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Shakik (radiyallahu anh), he said: To Aisha (radiyallahu anha); Which of the Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was more beloved to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)? I asked. Aisha said: "Abu Bakr". "Then who?" said. Aisha said: "Omar". “Then who?” I said. Aisha: “Ebû Ubeyde b. Surgeon,” he said. “Then who?” I said, Aisha fell silent. (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4019-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Those who are in high degrees in Paradise will see those below them as you see a star rising on the horizon of the sky. Abu Bakr and Umar are among them. They have attained this great blessing.” (Abu Dawud, Huruf: 27; Ibn Majah, Mukladdime: 17) This hadith is hasan. It has also been reported differently from Atiyya and Abu Said.
4020-) According to the narration from Abu'l Mualla (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) delivered a sermon one day and left a man free to live in the world as long as his Lord wishes, to eat and drink as much as he wishes in the world, or to meet his Lord. He chose to meet, he had commanded. Thereupon Abu Bakr wept. The Companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Do you not wonder why this old man (Abu Bakr) cried over the person who was released between meeting Allah and the life of this world?" they said. However, Abu Bakr was the only one who knew the meaning of the true word of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Abu Bakr said: "We will sacrifice our property and our fathers for you." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "There is no one among people who is more generous to us in his friendship and wealth than Abu Bakr. If I had a friend, I would have taken Abu Bakr as a friend. But he said two or three times that we have brotherhood love and sincerity. Beware, your Prophet is a friend of Allah. (Musnad: 15357) A hadith has also been reported from Abu Said on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib.
4021-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sat on the pulpit and said: “God freed one of his servants from the bounties of the world by giving him whatever he wanted from the bounties of the world, and that servant chose the bounties in the sight of God.” he commanded. Thereupon, Abu Bakr said: “O Messenger of Allah! We will sacrifice our parents for you.” We were astonished. However, the person who was released was the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Abu Bakr was the one who knew this issue best. Among the people, Abu Bakr was the most generous to me in his friendships and wealth. If I had made a friend, I would have taken Abu Bakr as a friend. But we have an Islamic brotherhood, so no door should be left in the mosque other than Abu Bakr's window (small door). (Bukhari, Salat: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan.
4022-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever has done us a good deed, we have certainly repaid him. Except for Abu Bakr, because he has such a goodness with us that Allah will reward him on the Day of Judgment. No one's property has benefited us as much as Abu Bakr's property has benefited us. If I had made a friend, I would definitely have taken Abu Bakr as a friend. Be careful! Your Prophet is a friend of Allah.” (Ibn Majah, Muqaddimah: 27)
4023-) According to the narration from Huzayfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Follow Abu Bakr and Umar after me.” (Ibn Majah, Muqaddimah: 27)
4024-) Ahmed b. Meni and many others said: Sufyan b. Through Uyeyne, Abdulmalik b. They narrated a similar hadith from Umayr to us. Sûfyan b. Uyeyne made tedlis with this hadith. Sometimes from Zaide, Abdulmalik b. From Umayr, sometimes: Not from Zaide, but only Abdulmalik b. Umair says. This hadith is hasan. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Mas'ud on this subject. es Sevrî reported this hadith from Abdulmalik b. It was narrated from Umayr, from Rib'i's freedman, from Ribi and Huzayfa. The hadith was also narrated from Rib'i and Huzayfa in a different way. Sâlim al-En'umî reported this hadith from Rib'î b. He narrated from Hıraş and Huzeyfe.
4025-) It was narrated from Huzeyfe (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: We were sitting next to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and he said: “I do not know how long I will stay with you. He said to those after me and pointed to Abu Bakr and Umar.” (Ibn Majah, Muqaddimah: 17)
4026-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said about Abu Bakr and Umar: These two people, apart from the prophets and messengers, are the masters of the youth of the people of Paradise, from the previous ones and the later ones. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
4027-) Ali b. According to a narration from Abu Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We were together with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Suddenly, Abu Bakr and Umar appeared. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "These two are the masters of the people of Paradise, from the previous ones and the later ones, apart from the Prophets and messengers. O Ali, do not inform them." (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is strange in its form. b. Muhammad al-Muwaqkiri is considered weak in hadith. Ali b. Huseyn and Ali b. He did not hear any hadith from Abi Talib. The hadith was also narrated from Ali in different ways. A hadith was also narrated from Anas and Ibn Abbas.
4028-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Apart from the Prophets and envoys, Abu Bakr and Umar are the masters of the people of Paradise from the previous ones and the later ones. O Ali, do not inform them!” (Ibn Majah, Muqaddimah: 27)
4029-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiyallahu anh), he said: Abu Bakr said: "Am I not the first of the Muslims? Am I not a friend of so-and-so (Prophets)?” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib.
4030-) Some narrate this hadith from Shu'ba, Jurayri, and Abu Nadre and say: Abu Bakr said that this is authentic. as Muhammad b. Beşşar, Abdurrahman b. He narrated from Mahdi, Shu'ba, Jurayri, and Abu Nadre, saying: Abu Bakr has mentioned a similar hadith in terms of meaning, which is more authentic.
4031-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); “While they were sitting together, the Companions of Muhajir and Ansar took Abu Bakr and Umar with them while they were sitting together. No one other than Abu Bakr and Umar would raise their eyes and look at the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). Only the two of them looked. He would look at them, they would smile, and he would smile at them.” (Musnad: 12058) This hadith can only be reported by Arbitr b. We know it as the hadith of Atiyya. Some hadith scholars like Arma b. They talked about Atiyye.
4032-) It was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh). One day, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) left his house and Abu Bakr and Umar entered the mosque, one on his right and one on his left. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) held their hands and said: "The three of us will rise together on the Day of Judgment." (Ibn Mâce, Mukaddime: 27) Said b. Maslama is not a solid person in the company of hadith scholars. This hadith has been narrated from Nafi' and Ibn 'Umar in a different way than here.
4033-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Abu Bakr: “You are my friend at the poolside and my friend in the cave.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4034-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Hantab (radiyallahu anh): "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) looked at Abu Bakr and Umar, and they are like my eyes and ears in terms of value." (Tirmidhi narrated.) Abdullah b. A hadith was also narrated from Amr. This hadith is mursal. Abdullah b. Hantab is someone who could not reach the Prophet.
4035-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), when the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) got sick last time, he said: “Tell Abu Bakr to lead the congregation in prayer.” Aisha: “O Messenger of Allah! If Abu Bakr becomes the imam instead of you, he will not be able to make the congregation hear his voice because of crying. Order Umar to lead the congregation's prayers.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said again: "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the prayer for the congregation." Aisha said: “O Hafsa! Tell the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) that if Abu Bakr becomes the imam instead of you, he will not be able to make the congregation hear his voice because of crying. Order Umar to lead the congregation in prayer." Hafsa did what I said. The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Indeed, you are like the women of Yusuf's time. Order Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer." Thereupon, Hafsa asked Aisha: "Will I not see any good from you?" he said. (Bukhari, Adhan: 27; Muslim, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasan. Abdullah b. Mes'ud, Abu Musa, Ibn Abbas, Salim b. Ubayd and Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Zam'a.
4036-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “It is not worthy for anyone other than him to be the imam of a congregation among which Abu Bakr is.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
4037-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever gives a pair of property in the way of Allah, he will be called to Paradise, O servant of Allah, this is a great good thing you have done. Those who are among the people of prayer will be called from the door of prayer, and those who make jihad will be called from the door of jihad. Those who give alms will be called from the gate of alms, and those who fast a lot will be called from the gate of Reyyan.” Abu Bakr said: "May my parents be sacrificed in the way, I think there is no need for a person to be called separately from all these doors, they will enter Paradise anyway. But can a person be summoned through all these doors?” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Yes, I wish you to enter through all the doors". (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Zakat: 17) This hadith is hasan saih.
4038-) Omar b. According to a narration from Khattab (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered us to help financially. This order came at a time when I was wealthy. I said, "If I can surpass Abu Bakr one day, I will pass today." I brought half of my property and handed it over to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “What did you leave for your children?” said. I said: "As much as I bring". Then Abu Bakr brought all he had. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "What did you leave for your family?" he commanded. Abu Bakr replied, "I left Allah and His Messenger." Thereupon, I said, "I cannot surpass Abu Bakr with any good deed." (Abu Dâvûd, Zakat: 27; Dârimî, Zakat: 27; Dârimî, Zakat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4039-) Cübeyr b. According to the narration from Mut'im (radiy-Allâhu anh), a woman came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and talked to him about an issue, and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) ordered that he be given something on his next visit. . The woman said: O Messenger of Allah! What would you order if I could not find you at that time? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "If you cannot find me, come to Abu Bakr." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is strange in its form.
4040-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: While a man was riding on an ox, that ox said: “I was not created for this, I was only created to herd.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I, Abu Bakr and Umar believed that this was the case." Abu Salama said: "Both Abu Bakr and Umar were absent from the congregation that day, Allah knows best." (Bukhari, Muzarea: 27; Muslim, Fezail: 17)
4041-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Shu'ba through Cafer with the same deed. This hadith is hasan authentic.
4042-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “He ordered that all doors opening to the mosque be closed except the door of Abu Bakr.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Said on this subject.
4043-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: Abu Bakr entered the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “You are the one whom Allah saved from Hell. ' they commanded. After that day, Abu Bakr was given the name Atik. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib.
4044-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “There is no Prophet who does not have two viziers (assistant) from heaven and two from earth. My two vizier from the sky people; Gabriel and Mikail. My two vizier from the people of the world; Abu Bakr and Umar.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Abu'l Cahhaf's name is Dâvûd b. Ebi Avf. It is reported from Sufyan as-Sevri that he said: Abu'l Cehhaf told us that he was an admired person. Telîd b. Suleiman is known as Abu Idris. He is Shi'i.
4045-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “O Allah, from these two men, Abu Jahl and Umar b. Strengthen Islam with the most beloved hattâb to you.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: "Omar was the most beloved of the two people." (Musnad: 5437) As the hadith of Ibn Umar, this hadith is hasan sahih.
4046-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Allah spoke the truth in Umar’s tongue.” Ibn 'Umar says: "Something happens between people, people and Umar (or Ibn Khattab is the doubting narrator Kharija) have expressed their views on that business. The revelation that came down in that event came in a way similar to the view of Umar.” (Musnad: 4898) Fadl b. Hadith was also narrated from Abbas, Abu Dharr and Abu Huraira. This hadith is hasan garib as it is. b. Abdullah al-Ansari; Ibn Sulayman b. Zayd b. He is a stable and reliable person.
4047-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Allah! Islam, Abu Jahl b. Hisham or Umar b. Strengthen it with calligraphy.” Ibn Abbas said: "Umar came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) in the morning and became a Muslim." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form. Some hadith scholars such as Nadr b. They criticized Ömer for his memory. Evil complaints were made against him.
4048-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar addressed Abu Bakr as "the best of people after the Messenger of Allah". Abu Bakr said: “Since you said this. And I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say about you: "The sun has not risen on anyone better than Umar." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We only know this way. It's not very solid either. A hadith was also narrated from Abu'd Darda on the subject.
4049-) Muhammed b. According to the narration from Sirin (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I don't think anyone who insults Abu Bakr and Omar loves the Prophet." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
4050-) Uqbe b. According to the narration from Amir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “If the Prophet was to come after me, it would be Umar b. He would have been Khattab.” (Musnad: 16764) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Musharrih b. We know with the narration of Ahân.
4051-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I was given a glass of milk in my dream, and I drank the rest of it from Umar b. I gave it to Khattab." The Companions said: “O Messenger of Allah! How would you interpret that?” The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Knowledge". (Bukhari, Science: 27; Muslim, Fezail: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4052-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I entered Paradise on the night of Isra, what shall I see? A mansion made of gold. Whose is this mansion? I asked. They said a boy. I thought that boy was me. Who is it? I asked. They said: 'Umar b. Hattab.” (Musnad: 11604) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4053-) According to the narration from Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) called Bilal one morning and said: “O Bilal! How did you get ahead of me in entering heaven? Every time I entered heaven, I heard your voice. Last night, I entered Heaven again and heard your voice in front of me again. Meanwhile, I came to a mansion made of gold with four corners of balconies. Whose is this mansion? said. They said, "A person who is an Arab". And I said: “I am an Arab! Whose mansion is this?” “A man from Quraysh,” they said. I said, "I am a Quraysh too. Whose mansion is this?" They said: "A man from the Ummah of Muhammad." I said: “I am Muhammed, whose mansion is this?” said. They said: "Umar b. Hattab's… said: “O Messenger of Allah, whenever I recited the adhan, I always prayed two rak'ahs, and whenever my wudu was broken, I immediately made wudu and I never left these two rak'ah prayers for Allah's sake.” Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Because of these two things, you enter Paradise before me." (Musnad: 21918) A hadith was also reported from Jabir, Muâz, Anas, and Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh) on this subject, and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I saw a golden mansion in Paradise. Whose is this mansion? said. Umar b. It was answered as "Khattab'in." This hadith is hasan sahih garib. The meaning of the phrase "I entered Paradise last night" in the hadith; In other words, it means that I saw that I entered Heaven in the dream world. In some hadiths, it is narrated in this way. It is narrated from Ibn Abbas: "The Prophet's (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) dream is a revelation."
4054-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Buraydah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard Burayda say: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went out to war. When he returned from the war, a black concubine came and said, O Messenger of Allah! I have dedicated myself to playing the tambourine and singing in front of you, if God turns you away from this war safely. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) if you are devoted, it will not work if you do not steal. The concubine began to ring. Abu Bakr entered and the concubine was playing. Ali entered, the concubine was continuing to steal. Osman entered and the Concubine was still playing, then when Ömer entered, the Concubine took her under her dress and sat on it. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “O Umar! Even the devil is afraid of you. The concubine was playing next to me; Abu Bakr came to me and the concubine continued to steal, then Ali came and was playing again, Osman came and continued to steal again, when you came, the concubine threw the defi out of her hand." (Musnad: 21911) This hadith is hasan sahih, as reported by Burayda. In this regard, Umar, Sa'd b. Hadith was also narrated from Abi Wakkas and Aisha.
4055-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: While the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was sitting next to us, we heard a noise and the voices of children. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) stood up. Let's see what! An Abyssinian woman plays, and the children turn around and look at her. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "O Aisha, come and have a look." I came and put my chin on the shoulder of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and began to watch that woman between her shoulder and her head. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to me: “Have you had enough of watching? are you full?" he commanded. I was saying no, not to watch the woman playing, but to understand her worth in the presence of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Meanwhile, Omer came. Everyone dispersed around that woman. Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I see the devils of humans and jinn fleeing from Umar.” I also returned home. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih in this form.
4056-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I am the first person to be exhumed by splitting the ground, then Abu Bakr, then Umar… then I will come to the Baki cemetery of Medina. and they will resurrect with me. Then I will spy on the Meccans, then I will resurrect them between the two Harems.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Asim b. Omar is not a hafiz.
4057-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “In the past societies, there were people who were inspired by Allah. If there is such a person from my nation, it must be Umar b. He is Khattab.” (Muslim, Fedail-us Companions: 27) This hadith is authentic. sufyan b. One of Uyeyna's men was Sufyan b. He told me what Uyeyne said: "Muhaddes" means a perceptive and understanding person.
4058-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “At this time, a person from the people of Paradise will appear to you.” Immediately after, “Abu Bakr came.” Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Another person from Paradise will appear to you." “Just after that, Omar appeared.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib as the narration of Ibn Mas'ud. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Musa and Jabir on this subject.
4059-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: While a man was grazing his sheep, a wolf came and grabbed a sheep, and the owner of the sheep came and saved him from the wolf. Then the wolf said, "How will you save that sheep on the day of the beasts of prey, when we are the only shepherds, when all people have fun and feast?" Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I believed that such an event took place, and so did Abu Bakr and Umar. Abu Salama said: Abu Bakr and Umar were not there that day either. (Bukhari, Muzarea: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17)
4060-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Muhammed b. Cafer, from Shu'ba and Sa'd b. They have transmitted a similar hadith from Ibrahim to us. This hadith is hasan authentic.
4061-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) was with Abu Bakr, Omar, Osman, Ali, Talha and Zubayr (radiyallahu anhum) on Mount Hira. Then the mountain shook and the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Calm down! There is a prophet, a siddiq or a martyr on you.” (Muslim, Fedail-us Companions: 27) Osman, Said b. Zayd, Ibn Abbas, Sahl b. Sa'd, Enes b. A hadith was also narrated from Malik, Burayda. This hadith is authentic.
4062-) According to the narration from Qatada (radiy-Allâhu anh), Anas told them as follows: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) went to Uhud Mountain, accompanied by Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman. The mountain shook them. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “O Uhud! Be calm, for there is a Prophet, a Siddiq and two martyrs on you.” (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Sunna: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4063-) Talha b. According to a narration from Ubaydullah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “Every Prophet has a friend; My friend in Paradise is Osman." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Its deed is not very strong and it is Munkati.
4064-) According to the narration from Abu Abdurrahman es-Sulemi (radiyallahu anh), he said: When Osman (radiyallahu anh) was besieged to be killed, he looked at those besieging his house and said: I remind you of Allah. Speak for Allah, when Mount Hira was shaken, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Hira! Calm down, there is a prophet, a siddiq and a martyr on you." Do you know what he said? And they said: "Yes". Uthman said: Tell the truth in the name of Allah: "Do you know that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said about the Tabuk army when most of the people were in distress and trouble, who would make an expenditure acceptable to Allah and that I equipped that army?" They said "yes". Then Osman said: “For God's sake, tell the truth! Everyone used to drink water from the well of Rume, do you know that I bought it and donated it for everyone, rich and poor, for everyone?" They all said at once: “It is true for Allah.” Osman counted some more similar things. (Nesai, Ahbas: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4065-) Abdurrahman b. According to a narration from Hubab (radiyallahu anh), he said: I saw the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) encouraging people to donate to the Tabuk army. Osman b. Affan stood up and said: “O Messenger of Allah! I take it upon myself to give a hundred camels with their scimitars and equipment in the way of Allah.” The Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was also encouraging people to help the army. Osman b. Affan got up again and said: "I undertake to give two hundred camels to this army with all their equipment." Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) continued to encourage. Osman got up again and said: "I promise to give this army three hundred camels with all their equipment." Thereupon, I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) descend from the pulpit saying: "Whatever Uthman does after this donation will not harm him. After making this expenditure, whatever Osman does will not harm…” (Musnad: 16099) This hadith is strange in its form. This hadith was only reported by Sekan b. We know it through the narration of Mughira. Abdurrahman b. A hadith was also narrated from Samura.
4066-) According to the narration from Samura (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Osman came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and brought a thousand dinars to help the Tabuk army. (Hasan b. Waki says in another part of the book in his sleeve) He spread it on the lap of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him). Abdurrahman says: I witnessed that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) turned the dinars upside down and said twice: "Whatever Osman does after that will not harm him." (Musnad: 19713) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
4067-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) ordered the allegiance of Ridvan, Osman b. Affan was sent to the people of Mecca. Muslims pledged allegiance. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Uthman b. Affan; He is for a religious purpose for the sake of Allah and His Prophet” and said: “In order to pledge allegiance to him, he gave allegiance by striking one of his hands instead of Osman's hand and the other as his own. It is better that the hand of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) be for Osman than the hands of the Companions to pledge allegiance to them.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4068-) Sümâme b. According to the narration from Hazn al-Kuseyri (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Osman said: "Bring your two men who made you fall on me." Two men were brought, as if they were two camels or two donkeys. Uthman looked at them from above and said: “I ask you in the name of Allah and Islam. When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) came to Medina, he said that there was no sweet drinking water other than the Rume well in Medina, "Who wants to dedicate the Ruma well to Muslims if they want to get a better one in Paradise?" Do you know that he ordered me and that I bought that well with my own property? Today you forbid me from drinking that water, forcing me to drink salty sea water.” They said: "Yes, it is true." Osman: “I am asking you in the name of Allah and Islam! Do you know that the Medina mosque was too small for the congregation, that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said who would like to buy the land of such and such people and add it to the mosque and have something better than him in Paradise, Do you know that I bought that land from my own property and enlarged the mosque? Today, you guys are forbidding me to pray two rak'ahs there," he said. And they said: "My God, yes". Osman: “I am asking you in the name of Allah and Islam! Do you know that I equip the Tabuk army from my own property?" said. And they said: "Yes, my God". Then Uthman said: “I am asking you in the name of Allah and Islam! When we were together with Abu Bakr and Umar on the mountain of Makkah with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), the mountain started to move and the stones rolled and fell down. that he said, "There are one siddiq and two martyrs..." They said: "My God, yes." Uthman said: "By saying Allahu Akbar three times, by the Lord of the Ka'ba, they witnessed that I would be a martyr." (Nesai, Ahbas: 17) This hadith is hasan. It has also been narrated from Osman in different ways.
4069-) According to the narration from Ebû'l Eş'as es Sananî (radiy-Allâhu anh), some orators in Damascus gave speeches on the murder of Osman, among them some of the Companions of the Prophets. The last of these orators was Murre b. He was a Companion called Ka'b, and he got up and said: "Had it not been for a hadith I heard from the Messenger of Allah, I would not have stood up to speak." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) talked about the turmoil one day and said that they were close. In the meantime, a person dressed in his clothes passed by. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "For that person, this person will be on the right path that day." I got up and saw that this person was Osman b. It is forgiveness. I turned his face to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and this? said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Yes". (Nesai, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. Ibn Umar, Abdullah b. Havale and Ka'b b. A hadith was also reported from Ucre.
4070-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Osman! Maybe God will make you wear a shirt. If they ask you to take that shirt off, take it off for them.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is a bit long. This hadith is hasan garib.
4071-) Osman b. Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mawhab (radiyallahu anh), a man from the Egyptian people made a pilgrimage to the Ka'ba and saw a congregation sitting there. Who is that old man? she asked. They said: Ibn 'Umar. He came to her and said: “I will ask you something; I want you to tell me the truth for the sake of Ka'ba! Do you know that Osman fled in the battle of Uhud? The old man replied, “Yes.” The man: “Do you know that he did not agree with the Ridvan allegiance and fell behind?” said. The old man said: “Yes”. Man: "Do you know that you did not participate in the battle of Badr and stayed behind?" The old man replied, “Yes.” Thereupon, Adam, astonished, said: "Allahu Akbar". Ibn Umar said to him: “Come, let me explain your questions to you; The escape of Osman on the day of Uhud is a crime forgiven by Allah. (Âl-i Imrân: 155) As for his staying behind from the Battle of Badr; The daughter of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was under his marriage and was ill. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) personally ordered that he stay with him and not join the war, and he said that anyone who joins the war will have the reward and share of the booty. As for the fact that Ridvan fell behind on his allegiance; If there was someone more valuable and respectable than Osman among the Meccans, then he would not have sent him as an ambassador, he would have sent him instead of Osman. The Ridvan allegiance was realized after Osman was sent to Mecca as an ambassador. At that time, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "This is Osman's hand for his right hand," placing his right hand on top of his left hand and saying, "Abu allegiance is for Osman." Ibn Umar said: "Take this information and go." (Bukhari Manakib: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4072-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was alive, we used to say Abu Bakr, Omar and Osman, and put our preference and order among the Companions.” (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Sunnah: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. Ubeydullah b. Omar's narration is considered strange. This hadith is narrated from Ibn Umar in a different way.
4073-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) talked about a fitna and said: "Osman b. Afwan will be killed as the oppressed in that fitna.” (Musnad: 5682) This hadith is hasan garib as it is narrated by Ibn Umar.
4074-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A man was brought to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to perform the funeral prayer. However, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not perform his funeral prayer. Thereupon he said: “O Messenger of Allah! We have not seen him perform the funeral prayer for anyone before that." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "This person used to hate Uthman. Allah hated him.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We know this hadith only in this way. Muhammed b. Ziyâd, Maymun b. He is Mihran's man, he is considered weak in hadith. Muhammed b. Ziyâd, on the other hand, is a relative of Abu Huraira and is a reliable person from Basra. He is known as Ebû'l Haris. Also, Muhammad b. There is Ziyâd al-Hani, who is close to Abu Umama and is named Abu Sufyan, from Damascus.
4075-) According to the narration from Abu Musa al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh), he said: I walked with the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) entered the garden of one of the Ansar and met his needs. He said to me: "O Abu Musa, take care of the door, so that no one will enter me without permission." Then a man came and knocked on the door, I said who is it. “Abu Bakr,” he said. I said, "O Messenger of Allah, this is Abu Bakr who has come, he is asking permission to enter." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Open the door for him and give him the glad tidings of Paradise." I opened the door and he came in: "I gave him the good news of Paradise." Someone else came and knocked on the door, I said, who is it? “Omar,” he replied. I said: “O Messenger of Allah! I said, 'Omar is asking permission to enter. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Open the door for him and give him the glad tidings of Paradise." I opened the door and he came in: "I gave him the good news of Paradise." Then another came and knocked on the door; “Who is it?” I asked. "Osman," he said. “O Messenger of Allah! This is Osman, he is asking permission to enter," I said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Open the door for him, too, and give him the glad tidings of Paradise in the face of a calamity." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. It was also narrated by Abu Osman an Nehdi in a different way. A hadith has also been reported from Jabir and Ibn Umar on this subject.
4076-) According to a narration from Abu Sahle (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The day the house of Uthman was besieged, he said to me: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave me an advice, and I will resist it and endure it. (The subject that states with the hadith no 3705). (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih. Only Ismail b. We know it through the narration of Abi Khalid.
4077-) Imran b. According to a narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent a military force, Ali b. He appointed Abi Talib as its commander. Ali continued on his way with this detachment. Then he had sexual intercourse with a concubine he had obtained from the war. The soldiers who were with him did not approve of Ali's action, and the four people agreed among themselves and said, "If we meet the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), we will inform him of what Ali did. When they returned from a war, they would first come to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and greet him and then disperse to their homes. When this detachment returned, they came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and greeted him. One of those four people stood up and said, "O Messenger of Allah! Ali b. Do you not look at Abi Talib? He did such and such.” The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) turned away from this person. Then the second person stood up and spoke as the first person spoke. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) turned away from him as well. The third person got up and said exactly what they said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) turned away from him as well. Finally, the fourth person got up and said exactly what they said. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) turned to this person with a sign of anger on his face and said, “What do you want from Ali? What do you want from Ali? What do you want from Ali? What do you want from Ali? Ali is mine. I am also from him. He is the guardian of every believer after me.” (Musnad: 19081) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was only reported by Jafar b. We know from the narration of Solomon.
4078-) Ebû Seriha or Zayd b. According to a narration from Erkam (radiy-Allâhu anh) (hesitancy is due to Shu'ba), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Whoever I am his parent, Ali is his guardian." (Musnad: 906) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith is from Maymun, Abu Abdullah, Zayd b. He narrated from Arkam. Ebû Süreyha, Huzeyfe b. Esid al-Gifari is one of the companions of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam).
4079-) It was narrated from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “May Allah have mercy on Abu Bakr, he married his daughter to me. He carried me to Medina, where I migrated. He freed Bilal from his own property. May Allah have mercy on Omar, he tells the truth even if it is bitter, he is left without friends because he tells the truth. May Allah have mercy on Osman. Even angels shy away from him. May Allah have mercy on Ali. O Allah, wherever Ali turns, do the right with him." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib and we know it only as it is. Mukhtar b. Nafi' is an old man from Basra and there are many strange narrations. The name of Abu Hayan et Taymi was Yahya b. Said b. Hayan et Taymi. He is a person from Kufa and is trusted.
4080-) Rıb'î b. According to the narration from Hıraş (radiy-Allâhu anh), Ali b. Abi Talib told us in Rahbe, which is a large square in Kufa, and said: On the day of Hudaybiya, some polytheists came to us. Among them Sühehl b. There were a few people from the notables of Amr and the polytheists. They said to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him): O Messenger of Allah! Our sons, our brothers, and some of our slaves have fled to you without understanding. They have no knowledge of religion. They are workers on our property and land, and they have fled from work. Give them back to us, if they are not knowledgeable about religion, we will inform them. In response to these proposals, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "O Quraysh community, you must give up your bad habits and return to Islam. Otherwise, Allah will send someone who will cut your necks in the name of religion. The hearts of those whom you say have no knowledge of that religion, Allah has tested them for faith.” The Companions said: “O Messenger of Allah! who is that person?" they asked. Abu Bakr: "O Messenger of Allah, who is that person?" she asked. Omer: “Who is that person?” she asked. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, "He is a shoe repairer." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave his shoes to Ali for repair. Then Ali turned to us and said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever lies on behalf of me on purpose, should prepare for his place in Hell." (Bukhari, Science: 27; Muslim, Mukaddime: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. We know it as Rib'i's narration from Ali. I heard from Carûd he was saying: I heard from Wakî he was saying: Rıb'î b. Hıraş did not lie about anything in Islam. Muhammed b. According to what Ismail told me, Abdullah b. Ab'îl Esved said: Abdurrahman b. I heard Mahdi said: Mansur b. Mu'temir is a solid person next to the people of Kufa.
4081-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) told Ali b. Abu Talib said: "You are from me and I am from you." This hadith is a bit long. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4082-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiyallahu anh), he said: “We hypocrites of the Ansar community, Ali b. We used to know them because they hated Abi Talib.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We know this hadith only through the narration of Abu Harun. Shu'ba talked back and forth about Abu Harun. This hadith is also narrated from A'mash, Abu Salih, and Abu Said. at b. Abdul Â'la, Muhammed b. Through Fudeyl, Abdullah b. Abdurrahman b. According to what was narrated from Abu'n Nadr, Musavir al-Khimari's mother, he said: “I went to Umm Salama and heard her say: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Hypocrites do not like Ali. A believer does not hate Ali.” A hadith has also been narrated from Ali on this subject. In this form, the hadith is hasan garib. Abdullah b. Abdurrahman is Abu Nasr al-Warrak, who narrated a hadith from him by Sufyan al-Swri.
4083-) According to the narration of Buraydah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: Allah has ordered me to love four people. He told me that he loved them too. Then it was said, O Messenger of Allah, tell us their names. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "One of them is Ali. repeated this three times. Others are Abu Dharr, Miqdad and Salman.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is hasan. We know this hadith only through the narration of Shurayk.
4084-) Habeshi b. According to a narration from Junade (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Ali is from me. I am Aliden. I and Ali fulfill the promises made on my behalf.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
4085-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) established brotherhood among his companions. Ali came with tears in his eyes and said: “O Messenger of Allah! You established brotherhood among your companions, but you did not make me a brother to anyone.” Thereupon, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him: "You are my brother in this world and in the hereafter." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Zayd b. A hadith was also narrated from Abi Awfa.
4086-) It is narrated from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: There was bird meat with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: “O Allah! Send me the most beloved of your servants so that he can eat the meat of the bird with me, then Ali came and they ate together.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. In this form, we know only from the narration of Suddi. It has also been narrated in a different way from Enes. Isa b. Omar is from Kufa. Süddî, İsmail b. Abdurrahman. Enes b. He heard a hadith from Malik and Husayn b. He saw Ali. Shu'be, Sûfyan es Sevrî and Zaide accepted this person as sound. Yahya b. Said al-Kattan is also one of those who consider it sound.
4087-) Abdurrahman b. Abdullah b. Amr b. According to the narration from Hind al-Hubali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Ali said: When I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) he would answer me. When I was quiet, he would start talking to me.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
4088-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “I am a house of wisdom. Ali is also the door of this house.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib munkar. He does not mention Sunabihi in the inscription by narrating this hadith from Shurayk. We do not know that some of these hadiths were narrated from a reliable person other than Sharik. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject.
4089-) Sa'd b. Abî Vakkâs (radiy-Allâhu anh) narrated from his father and said: “Muawiya b. What prevented you from vilifying Abu Turab (Ali) that Abu Sufyan ordered Sa'd to do?" he had asked. Sa'd replied, "As long as I remember the three words of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam), I can't curse him. Having one of those features is better than red camels. I heard him (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say to Ali: He left Ali in his place in Medina during the Battle of Tabuk, but Ali said: “O Messenger of Allah! Are you leaving me with children and women?” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to him: "Wouldn't you be pleased to be in Harun's place against me and Musa against me? The difference is that there is no Prophet after me. In the Khaybar Incident, he said, "I will give this banner to someone who loves Allah and His Prophet, and to a person whom Allah and the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) love." and that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) blew into his eyes and thus he healed and gave the banner to him, and that the conquest of Khaybar was by his hand. He called Ali Fatima, Hasan and Husayn to him and said, "Oh my God, these are my people," he said.
4090-) According to the narration from Bara (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) sent two armies to one of them, Ali b. Ebî Tâlib to the other and Halid b. He appointed Walid as the commander and in case of a collision, Ali is the commander-in-chief. Ali conquered a castle, a concubine had taken prisoner from the castle. Thereupon, Khalid wrote with me a letter to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) blaming Ali. I came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) when he read the letter, his color changed suddenly and then he said: "What do you think about a person who loves Allah and His Prophet and whom Allah and His Prophet love?" I said: "I seek refuge in Allah from the wrath of Allah and the wrath of the Prophet, I am only a messenger". Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) remained silent. (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is garib. But this is how we know it.
4091-) According to a narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), he said: In the case of Taif, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) called Ali. He spoke directly to her. Upon this, the Muslims said that the conversation of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) alone with his uncle's son took a long time. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) also said: "I did not want to speak in secret. God commanded." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib and we know it only through the narration of Eclah. Other than Fudayl, similarly, this hadith was narrated from Eclah. The meaning of the word “Velakinnallahe intecahu” in the hadith is: Allah has ordered me to talk to him secretly.
4092-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to Ali: “O Ali! It is not permissible for anyone other than you and me to be junub in this mosque.” Ali b. Munzir said: Dırar b. I asked Sura what is the meaning of this hadith. Dirar commented: It is not permissible for anyone other than me and you to pass through this mosque as a junub. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. We only know this way. Muhammed b. Ismail heard this hadith from me and found it strange.
4093-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was sent as a Prophet on Monday. He prayed with Ali on Tuesday.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) A hadith was also narrated from Ali on this subject. This hadith is garib and only Muslim b. We know it as Aver's narration. Muslim b. A'ver, on the other hand, is not very strong compared to hadith scholars. This hadith was also narrated from Muslim, Hibbe and Ali in a similar way.
4094-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “If I asked the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) for something, he would certainly give it. When I was silent, he would start by asking me.” (Musnad: 14111) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. In this regard, Câbir, Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Eslem and Abu Huraira and Umm Salama.
4095-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Ali: “As against me, you are in the position of Harun against Moses, but from me Then there is no Prophet.” (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Sa'd, Zayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Erkam, Abu Huraira and Umm Salama.
4096-) Sa'd b. According to the narration from Ebî Vakkâs (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Ali: “Against me, you are in the position of Harun against Moses, but the Prophet will not come after me.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. This hadith, which was narrated in a different way from Sa'd, was written by Yahya b. It is strange as the narration of Said al-Ansari.
4097-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh): “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) ordered that the doors to the mosque other than Ali’s door to be closed.” (Musnad: 2902) This hadith is garib and we know it in this form from Shu'ba.
4098-) Ali b. According to the narration from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) took Hasan and Husayn by the hand and said: “Whoever loves me, loves these two children, their father and mother, he will be with me in high degrees on the Day of Judgment. ” (Musnad: 543) This hadith is hasan garib, and it was written by Cafer b. We can only know this as the narration of Muhammad.
4099-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Ali is the first to pray.” (Musnad: 3361) This hadith is strange in its form. Only Muhammad b. We know from the narration of Humayd. The name of Abu Belc, Yahya b. He is Süleyman. Scholars have offered different opinions on the matter. Some have said: Abu Bakr was the first Muslim. Others are Ali. According to some others, Abu Bakr is one of the men and Ali is one of the children: He became a Muslim at the age of eight. Hatice was the first to convert to Islam.
4100-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Erkam (radiyallahu anh), he said: "The first person to become a Muslim is Ali." Amr b. Murre says: I conveyed this to Ibrahim Nehai; He also said: "The first Muslim to be Abu Bakr es Siddiq". (Musnad: 18478) This hadith is hasan authentic. Abu Hamza's name was Talha b. It is Zayd.
4101-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet, who was illiterate, told me: "Believers love you, hypocrites hate you." Adiy b. Thabit said: I am one of the people of the century that the Prophet (pbuh) prayed for. (Muslim, Faith: 27; Nasai, Faith: 17) This hadith is hasan.
4102-) It was narrated from Umm Atiyya (radiy-Allâhu anh) that she said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) had sent an army, including Ali, for war, and I heard him raise his hands and pray: “O Allah, Ali! Don't take my life without showing me the good." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. But this is how we know it.
4103-) It was narrated from Zubayr (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: In the battle of Uhud, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) had two armors on his back, but he tried to climb on a rock but could not afford it due to the weight of the armors. Thereupon, he made Talha a stepping stone and was able to climb onto the rock. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Talha deserves Paradise." (Musnad: 1343 This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4104-) Jabir b. It was narrated from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh). I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) say: "Whoever makes you happy to look at a martyr walking on earth, Talha b. Let him look at Ubeydullah." (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 122) This hadith is strange, we only know it through Salt's narration. Some hadith scholars like Salt b. They talked about Dinar. Salih b. Moses was criticized for his memory.
4105-) Musa b. According to the narration from Talha (radiyallahu anh), he said: I went to Muawiyah; “Shall I give you good news?” said. I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "Talha is one of those who fulfill the covenant stated in the 23rd verse of the chapter of Ahzab." (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 123) This hadith is strange. As the hadith of Muawiya, we know it only in this way.
4106-) Ukbe b. According to the narration from Alkame al-Yeşkûrî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Ali b. I heard Abi Talib say: "My ear heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) say: Talha and Zubayr are my two neighbors in Paradise." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib and we know it only as it is.
4107-) It was narrated from Talha (radiyallahu anh). The Companions of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to an ignorant bedouin: "Ask the Prophet who those who fulfilled his covenant were." They did not dare to ask questions by shying away from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Bedouin asked: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) turned away from him: Then he asked again: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) turned away again: Then I came out of the door of the mosque in green clothes. When the Messenger of Allah (blessings and peace of Allah be upon him) saw me, he said: "Where is the person who asks?" he commanded. Bedouin: “It is me, O Messenger of Allah!” said. He said, "This is one of those who keep his covenant." (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. Abu Kureyb, Yunus b. We know from Bukayr's narration. Many of the notables of hadiths have narrated this hadith from Abu Kurayb. Muhammed b. Ismail also narrated this hadith from Abu Kurayb and put it in the "Fevaid" section of his book.
4108-) It was narrated from Zubayr (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: On the day of Qurayza, when the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) wanted to be sacrificed for me, he used both his parents and said: “May my mother and father be sacrificed for you.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 17; Muslim, Fezail: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4109-) It was narrated from Ali (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Every Prophet has an apostle, and my apostle is Zubayr b. It is Avvam.” (Musnad: 642) This hadith is hasan authentic. Apostle (meaning helper.) I heard from Ibn Abi Umar that he was saying: Sufyan b. Uyeyna said: It means "Apostle, helper".
4110-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saying: Every Prophet has an apostle. My apostle Zubayr b. It is Avvam.” Abu Nuaym added the following to this incident: In the Battle of the Trench, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "Who can bring us news from the enemy's side," Zubayr said: "I am." The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) repeated this three times, and Zubayr said me every time. (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Fezail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4111-) Hisham b. According to the narration from Urwa (radiyallahu anh), Zubayr gave advice to his son Abdullah on the morning of the Jamal incident and said: "I have no organs that were not injured in the wars I fought with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). This wound even hit my genital organ. (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is Hammad b. Zayd's narration is hasan garib.
4112-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Awf (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Abu Bakr is in Paradise, Omar is in Paradise, Osman is in Paradise, Ali is in Paradise, Talha is in Paradise, Zubayr is in Paradise, Abdurrahman b. Auf is in Paradise, Sa'd is in Paradise, Said is in Paradise, Abu Ubayda b. The surgeon is in Paradise.” (Musnad: 1585)
4113-) Abdulaziz b. Muhammed, Abdurrahman b. He transmitted this hadith to us from Humayd, his father in a similar way, and Abdurrahman b. He did not mention Auf. This hadith is Abdurrahman b. Humayd, from his father, Said b. It was narrated similarly from Zayd. This hadith is more authentic than the first hadith.
4114-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from the father of Humayd (radiyallahu anh), Said b. Zayd related that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to Humayd in a congregation: “Ten people are in Paradise: Abu Bakr is in Paradise, Omar is in Paradise, Osman, Ali, Zubayr, Talha, Abdurrahman, Abu Ubeyde, Sa'd b. ebî Vakkâs.” Humayd said: “Saîd b. Zayd counted these nine, and when he came to the tenth he was silent. Congregation: O Abu'l A'ver! For God's sake, tell me who is the tenth? Said replied: You asked me for God's sake; Abu'l A'ver." (Ebû Dâvûd, Sunnah: 27; İbn Mâce, Mukaddime: 17) Ebû'l A'ver, Said b. Zayd b. Amr b. Nevfel. I heard from Muhammad saying: This hadith is more authentic than the first hadith.
4115-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) addressed his wives as follows: “Your situation after me seriously makes me think. Only those who are very generous will be able to tolerate you.” Abu Salam said: 'Aisha used to say to me: May Allah make your father (meaning Abdurrahman b. Awf) drink selsabil from the springs of Paradise, because he donated a property that was sold for forty thousand dinars to the wives of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). (Musnad: 22345) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4116-) According to the narration from Abu Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh): “Abdurrahman b. Auf and Huzeyfe bequeathed a garden worth four hundred thousand dinars to the wives of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam). (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
4117-) Sa'd b. According to a narration from Abu Wakkas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "O Allah, when Sa'd prays to you, accept his supplication." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith was also reported from Ismail and Qays and said: “My God! When Sa'd prays to you, accept his prayer." This narration is more authentic.
4118-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: While Sa'd was walking towards the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "This is my uncle. Whoever has such an uncle should show me.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. We know only from the narration of Mucalid. Sa'd was from the sons of Zuhre. The mother of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) was also one of the sons of Zuhre, so the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said this is my uncle.
4119-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used his parents together when he wanted to be sacrificed only for Sa'd, and on the day of Uhud he said to Sa'd: "My father told me May it be sacrificed, O dear boy," he said. (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan. Many people refer to this hadith as Yahya b. From Said, Said b. They narrated from al-Museyyeb and Sa'd.
4120-) Sa'd b. According to what was narrated from Abu Wakkas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “In the battle of Uhud, he said, "Let him be sacrificed for me, bringing his father and mother together." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. Hadith Abdullah b. Shaddad b. It was narrated from Ali through al-Had.
4121-) Ali b. According to the narration from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: ! I have heard him say, "May my parents be sacrificed for you". (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is authentic.
4122-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to Madina after a war, he fell asleep and said: If a righteous person would stand guard in front of my door tonight and wait for me... While we were in this situation, we heard a gunshot, and the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Who is that?" That person: Sa'd b. Abi Waqqas replied. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) asked him, “Why did you come?” he commanded. Sa'd said: "I was afraid of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and I came to wait for him." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed for him and slept. (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4123-) Said b. Zayd b. Amr b. It was narrated from Nufayl (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: I testify that nine people are in Paradise, and if I testify that the tenth person is in Paradise, I would not be committing a sin. How does that happen on top of that? He was asked. Said b. Zayd said: We were on Mount Hira with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). When the mountain shakes; “Stay still, Hira! Because there is a prophet, a siddiq and a martyr on you.” When asked who they are, Said said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Abu Bakr, Omar, Osman, Ali, Talha, Zubayr, Sa'd, Abdurrahman b. Avf.” Then who is the tenth? he was asked. Said said: "I am". (Abu Dawud, Sunnah: 27; Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. In another way, Said b. It was narrated from Zayd.
4124-) Ahmed b. Menî', Haccac b. From Shu'ba through Muhammad, Hurr b. From Sabbah, Abdurrahman b. Ahnes, Said b. He narrated a similar meaning from Zayd. This hadith is hasan.
4125-) Abdulmuttalib b. Rabia b. Haris b. According to the narration from Abdulmuttalib (radiyallahu anh), Abbas b. Abdulmuttalib entered the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) in an angry state. I was with him too. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked why are you angry? Abbas: “O Messenger of Allah! What is the difference between us Haşimoğulları and the Quraysh? Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) got angry, his face turned red, and said: “I swear by the One in whose hand my power is: until someone loves you for the sake of Allah and His Messenger, faith will not enter his heart.” Then he continued: “O people! Whoever torments my uncle is tormenting me. A man's uncle is like his father." (Musnad: 16860) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4126-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I am from Abbas, I am from Abbas." (Musnad: 2598) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. We know only as the narration of Israel
4127-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), only the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said to Umar about Abbas: “A person's uncle means a wife of his father.” This is what the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said when Umar was talking about Abbas’ Zakat issue. (Musnad: 687) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4128-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), it is reported that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: Abbas is the uncle of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). One's uncle is in place of his father or a spouse of his father. (Musnad: Zakat: 27; Abu Dawud, Zakat: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. We know it as Abu'z Zinad's narration.
4129-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said to Abbas: "Come to me with your children on Monday morning, I will pray for them so that Allah will benefit them and you with this prayer." he had commanded. In the morning, we all went together. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) covered all of us with a blanket and prayed: “O Allah! Forgive Abbas and his children from all their visible and invisible sins, leaving nothing behind. O Allah, watch over them with regard to their children.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. We only know this way.
4130-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "I saw Jafar flying in Paradise with the angels." (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is garib as the hadith of Abu Huraira. Only Abdullah b. We know it as the narration of Jafar. Yahya b. Main and other hadith scholars Abdullah b. They said that Cafer was weak in hadith. This person was Ali b. He is the father of al-Madinî. A hadith has also been reported from Ibn Abbas on this subject.
4131-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "After the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), no one more valuable than Jafar neither owned nor wore shoes. It was neither mounted on the saddles nor set on the saddles of the knights.” (Musnad: 8985) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. “Kev” means a thousand.
4132-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Âzib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): Cafer b. He said to Abi Talib: "You are similar to me in terms of creation and temperament." This hadith is long. (Bukhari, Megazi: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4133-) Sûfyan b. Waki' narrated a similar hadith from Israel through Ubayy.
4134-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) used to ask one of his Companions about some verses from the Qur’an, I knew those verses better than they did, but something happened to me. I ask them to cause them to feed. Jafar b. When I asked Abi Talib, he would not answer me right away. He takes me to his house and says to his wife: "O Esma, give us something to eat." He would answer us after he ate. Cafer loved the poor, he would sit with them, talk to them, and those poor people would talk to him. For this reason, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) used to call him the father of the poor. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27) This hadith is strange. Ebû İshâk el Mahzûmî, İbrahim b. He is Fadl al Madani and some hadith scholars criticized him in terms of his memory and said that he had strange narrations.
4135-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "We Jafar b. We used to call Abi Talib as the father of the poor. Every time we came to him, he would definitely prepare something for us and feed us. Once, when we came to him, he had nothing, but he took out a jar with honey in it and broke it, so we licked the honey that got on it.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as the narration of Abu Salama and Abu Huraira.
4136-) According to the narration from Abu Said (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Hasan and Husayn are the masters of the youths of Paradise.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
4137-) Sûfyan b. Vekî', through Cerir Muhammed b. He narrated a similar hadith to us from Fudayl and Yazid. This hadith is hasan authentic. Ibn Abi Nu'm, Abdurrahman b. Ebî'n Nu'm el Beceli is from Kufa. He is labeled as Ebû'l Hakam.
4138-) Usama b. According to the narration from Zayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: I knocked on the door of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) one night for a need. The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) appeared before me, clinging to something I did not know what it was. When I finished my work, I said: What is this thing that I am clinging to? O Messenger of Allah! What will I see when I open that cover? Wasn't it Hasan and Hussein! May Allah's peace be upon their descendants and family. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "These are my sons and my daughter's sons. My God, I love them, and you love them, and love those who love them." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27) This hadith is hasan garib.
4139-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Abi Nu'm (radiyallahu anh), a man from Iraq came to Ibn Umar to inquire about the verdict of the blood of the mosquito that gets on the clothes. Then Ibn Omar said: Look at this man! He asks the verdict of the mosquito's blood! However, they killed the grandson of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say: "Hasan and Husayn are my basil in this world." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27) This hadith is authentic. and Mahdi b. Maymun, Muhammed b. They narrated this hadith from Abi Ya'qub. This hadith was also reported from Abu Huraira in a similar way.
4140-) It was narrated from Selma (radiy-Allâhu anha) that she said: I went to Umm Selma and she was crying. I asked why are you crying. He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) in a dream, his hair and beard were earthy. What happened to you, I said, O Messenger of Allah? He said: "I just witnessed the murder of Husayn." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib.
4141-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he says: “Which of the Ahl al-Bayt is dearer to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)?” He was asked: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) replied, "Hasan and Husayn". He tells Fatima to call her children. He smelled them and embraced them. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) In this form, this hadith is garib as Anas' narration.
4142-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) climbed the pulpit and said: This son of mine (grandson) is such a master that Allah will reconcile the two groups through him. (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Nesâî, Friday: 17) This hadith is from Hasen b. The narration of Ali is hasan authentic.
4143-) According to the narration from Abu Buraydah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: While the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) was giving a sermon to us, Hasan and Husayn came tumbling down in a red shirt. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) descended from the pulpit, took them in his arms, made them sit in front of him, and said: "What is the truth of Allah's saying, "Your wealth and children are only a means of testing." (Anfal: 28) I looked at the condition of these two children, they are walking, they stumble and fall. (Nesai, Friday: 27; Abu Dâvûd, Salat: 17) This hadith is hasen garib. We know from the narration of Waqid.
4144-) Ya'la b. According to a narration from Murra (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: Husayn is from me. I am also from Hussein, may God love those who love Husayn Hussein is a great-grandson.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is hasan. Only Abdullah b. Osman b. We know with the narration of Haysem. Others have also narrated this hadith.
4145-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “There was no one in the Ahl al-bayt who resembled the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) more than Hasan.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4146-) According to the narration from Abu Juhayfa (radiyallahu anh), he said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and Hasan was very similar to him." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Abu Bakr, Ibn Abbas and Ibn Zubayr.
4147-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was with Ibn Ziyad when Husayn's head was brought. Ibn Ziyad was pointing his nose with a stick in his hand and saying: I have never seen such beauty. Then I said: He is one of the most similar to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) among the Ahl al-Bayt. (Bukhari, Menakib: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4148-) According to what is reported from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Hassan was more like the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in the part from the chest to the head. In the lower part of the chest, Hüseyin was more similar.” (Musnad: 735) The hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4149-) Imara b. According to the narration from Umayr (radiyallahu anh), he said: “Ubeydullah b. When the heads of Ziyâd and his men were brought, when they were lined up in the masjid in the Rahbe, they were saying that I had arrived and the people had arrived at that moment. It turns out that a snake has come and is walking between their heads. Finally, this snake was sent to Ubeydullah b. It entered Ziyad's nostrils, and after a short while, he left and disappeared. Then people said they came again. The snake did this two or three times.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4150-) According to the narration from Huzeyfe (radiyallahu anh), he said: My mother asked me when will you go to meet with the Prophet, and I said, 'I haven't seen him for a long time. My mother scolded me. Thereupon I said: Let me go and pray the Maghrib prayer with the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and ask him for forgiveness for you and me. I went to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) and prayed the evening prayer with him. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) began to perform nafilah prayers after the evening prayer, and finally, after performing the night prayer, he returned and I followed him. He heard my voice and said: "Who is that Huzeyfe?" he commanded. I said yes. “What is your need? Why did you come? May Allah forgive you and your mother.” Then he continued: “This is an angel who had never descended to earth before this night. He asked the Lord's permission to greet me, to inform me that Fatima is the lady of the Paradise women, and to inform me that Hasan and Husayn are the masters of the Paradise boys. (Musnad: 22240) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. We only know it as the narration of Israel.
4151-) According to the narration from Bara (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) looked at Hasan and Husayn and said: “My God, I love these two, and you love them too.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fezail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4152-) Berâ b. According to the narration from Azib (radiyallahu anh), I saw the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) with Hasan on his shoulder saying, "O Allah, I love him, you love him too." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fezail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. It is more authentic than the previous hadith.
4153-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was carrying Husayn on his shoulder. Thereupon, someone said: "O child, how beautiful is the mount you are riding." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "What a beautiful rider he is." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. But this is how we know it. Some hadith scholars such as Zam'a b. They considered Salih weak in terms of memory.
4154-) Ali b. According to the narration from Abî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Each Prophet was given seven companions or guards. I was given fourteen.” We asked: "Who are they?" He replied: "I, my two sons Hasan and Husayn, Cafer, Hamza, Abu Bakr, Omar, Mus'ab b. Umayr, Bilal, Salman, Mikdad, Abu Zerr, Ammar and Abdullah b. He is Mas'ud." (Musnad: 1198) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. This hadith has also been narrated from Ali as mawkuf.
4155-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) giving a sermon on his camel named Kaswa on the day of Hajj, and he was saying: "O People! I leave you two things, if you follow them, you will never go astray, my book of Allah and my family, who are my relatives. (Ebû Dâvûd, Menasik: 27; İbn Mâce, Menasik: 17) In this regard, Ebû Zerr, Ebû Said, Zeyd b. Hadith was also narrated from Arkam, Huzeyfe and Ibn Esid. This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Zayd b. Hasan from Said b. Solomon and various scholars narrated hadith.
4156-) Omar b. According to the narration from Ebî Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Surah Ahzab: verse 33; “… O people of the Prophet's household, Allah wants to remove all kinds of ugliness and pollution from you and to make you clean.” He had landed at Umm Salama's house. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) called Fatima, Hasan and Husayn and covered them with a cloth. Ali was behind the Messenger of Allah, and he covered him with another veil and prayed: “O Allah, these are my household. Remove their uncleanness and badness from them and make them pure.” Umm Salama: "O Prophet of Allah, am I one of them?" said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "Stay in your place! You are one of the good people to me.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) Umm Salama, Ma'kil b. Hadith was also narrated from Yesar, Abu'l Hamra and Anas. This hadith is strange in its form.
4157-) Zayd b. According to a narration from Erkam (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "I will leave you something that if you hold on to it, you will never go astray after me, both of these things are greater than the other. The book of Allah, the divine order, which is like a rope stretching from the sky to the ground, and my relatives, my people. These two things will never be separated until they come to me by the pool on the Day of Judgment. Be careful how you agree with me on these two things.” (Musnad: 10681) This hadith is hasan garib.
4158-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Love Allah for feeding you with all kinds of food, Allah; love me with his love and love my people with my love…” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is hasan garib. But this is how we know it.
4159-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The most merciful of my Ummah to my Ummah is Abu Bakr, and the most severe in regard to Allah's orders is Umar. Osman, who is the most correct in terms of haya, and Muâz b. Zeyd b. Sabit, the greatest recitation scholar Ubey b. It is Ka'b. Every Ummah has a trusted person; The reliable person of this ummah is Abu Ubayda b. It is Cerrâh.” (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. In this way, we know it as the narration of Qatada. Abu Qalabe narrated from Anas in a similar way, and the famous narration is this narration by Abu Qalabe.
4160-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Of my Ummah, the most merciful to my Ummah is Abu Bakr. Umar is the most severe in the command of Allah. Osman is the most correct in terms of haya. The best reciter of the Qur'an was Ubay b. It is Ka'b. Zayd b. It is fixed. The one who knows halal and haram best is Muaz b. It is Cebel. Be careful! Every ummah has a trusted person, and the trusted person of this ummah is Abu Ubayda b. He is Cerrâh. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4161-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), Ubay b. He said to Ka'b: "Allah has ordered you to recite Surah Bayyina." Ubey: “Did he give my name?” she asked. The Messenger of Allah (may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him) said, "Yes." Thereupon, Ubay wept. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Ka'b narrated this hadith by saying, "The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about me".
4162-) Ubey b. According to the narration from Ka'b (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to himself; Allah said to me: “The true religion, the religion of Islam, whose way of life is free from all injustice and falsehood in the sight of Allah. Judaism and Christianity are not. Whatever good a person who is following this religion does is never in vain. It will definitely pay off.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) continued his words as follows: If a human being has a valley full of property, he will definitely want the second one; if he has the second, he will want the third. No one else fills the mouth or eyes of Adam's son except earth. Allah accepts the repentance of those who repent. (Musnad: 20257) This hadith is hasan authentic. It has been reported elsewhere as well. Abdullah b. Abdurrahman b. Ebza, from his father Ubey b. It was narrated from Ka'b: "Allah has ordered me to recite the Qur'an to you." Again, Qatada narrated from Anas and said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) told Ubay; Allah has ordered me to recite the Qur'an to you."
4163-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) collected the Qur'an in his time, four people, all of them from Ansar. Ubey b. Ka'b, Muâz b. Cebel, Zayd b. Thabit and Abu Zaid.” I asked Anas: "Who is Abu Zayd?" He said: “He is one of my uncles.” (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) hadith hasan is sahih.
4164-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “What a good man Abu Bakr is, what a good man Umar is, Abu Ubayda b. What a good man the surgeon is. Usayd b. What a good man Hudayr is. fixed b. Kays b. What a good man Shammâs is. Muaz b. Cebel is a good man. Muaz b. Amr b. What a good man Jamûh is.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is hasan and we know it only through Suhayl's narration.
4165-) Huzeyfe b. According to the narration from Yeman (radiyallahu anh), Aqib and Sayyid came to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: "Send a reliable person with us." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "I will send a trustworthy person with you." People's eyes began to watch left and right to see who this person would be. Then the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said to Abu Ubayda b. He sent Cerrah. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) When Ishaq narrated this hadith from Sıla; I heard from him sixty years ago, he said. This hadith is hasan authentic. It was also narrated through Umar and Anas that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Every nation has a person whom they can trust the most. The trusted person of this ummah is Abu Ubeyde b. It is Cerrâh.”
4166-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “Paradise is in the longing of three people; Ali, Ammar and Salman.” (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is garib and only Hasan b. We know from the narration of Salih.
4167-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: Ammar b. Yasir came and asked permission to enter the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) presence. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Let him be, a clean and pure person, hello and welcome." (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 179 This hadith is hasan authentic.
4168-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When Ammar was left free between two jobs, he would choose the best one.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 17) This hadith is strange. This hadith was narrated by Abdulaziz b. We know it in this way, as reported by Siyah. Hadith scholars narrated hadith from this person. His Yazid b. He has a son named Abdulaziz. Yahya b. Adam narrated hadith from him.
4169-) Mahmud b. Through Gaylân, Vekî; From Sufyan, Abdulmalik b. Rib'i's freedman from Umayr narrated a similar hadith from Hilal, Rib'i and Huzayfa. Sâlim el Murâdî is from Küfeli and Rib'î b. He narrated this hadith from Hıraş and Huzeyfe in a similar way.
4170-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Good news for you, O Ammar, you will be killed by a fierce group and you will be a martyr." (Tirmidhi narrated.) Umm Salama, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Amr, Abu'l Yusr and Huzayfa. This hadith is from Ala b. As the narration of Abdurrahman, it is hasan sahih garib.
4171-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “The sky has neither migrated nor carried over the earth the one who is more righteous than Abu Dharr.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) A hadith has also been reported from Abu'd Darda and Abu Dharr on this subject. This hadith is hasan.
4172-) According to the narration from Abu Dharr (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "What would you say to someone like Isa, son of Mary, who is more truthful and more loyal than Abu Dharr, who has a dialect? He has not sheltered under the dome of the sky, nor has the earth carried on his back.” Umar b. Hattab, in an enviable manner, said: “O Messenger of Allah! do you know him that way?" The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said, "Yes," and said, "Get to know him as such." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Some narrate this hadith and say: "Abu Dharr lived on earth like the asceticism of Jesus, son of Mary."
4173-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from the son of Selam's (radiy-Allâhu anh) brother, he said: When Osman wanted to be killed by the rebels, Abdullah b. Salute came to him, Osman said to him: "Why did you come?" She asked. Abdullah said: "I have come to help you". Then Osman said: Go to the rebels and drive them away from me. You being outside is better for me than being inside. Thereupon, Abdullah went up to the rebels and said: “O People! It was my name in the period of ignorance. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave me the name Abdullah. Verses of the Qur'an were revealed about me (Surah Ahqaf: 10th verse) The 43rd verse of Ra'd Surah was also revealed about me. Allah's sword in sheath is with you. Angels are as close to you as neighbors in your country where the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) migrated. Be mindful of Allah, fear Allah and stay away from killing this man. By Allah, if you kill him, you will kidnap your neighbor angels from here. You will unsheath the sword of Allah, and it will not be sheathed again until the Day of Judgment. Thereupon, the rebels shouted, "Kill the Jew, kill Osman." (This hadith was mentioned in the commentary of Surah Ahqaf, number 3256.) (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange. Abdulmalik b. We know with the narration of Umair. Shuayb b. Safwan reported this hadith from Abdulmalik b. Narrated by Umayr: “Ibn Muhammad, Ibn Abdullah b. Selam from his grandfather Abdullah b. Greetings,” he said.
4174-) Yazid b. According to the narration from Umaira (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Muâz b. When Cebel's death approached, he said to himself: "O Abu Abdurrahman! Give us advice”. Muâz said: "Make me sit down" and continued: "Knowledge and belief are in their place. Whoever seeks them will definitely find them (he repeated this word three times). Mas'ud and Abdullah b. Peace be upon you… Because I heard from the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam); He said he was the tenth of ten people to enter Paradise.” (Musnad: 21088) A hadith was also narrated from Sa'd on this subject. This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4175-) According to the narration from Ibn Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Follow my Companions Abu Bakr and Umar after me, and follow the path that Ammar showed. Hold tight to the narrations of Ibn Mas'ud!” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) In this form, this hadith is hasan garib as the narration of Ibn Mas'ud. Only Yahya b. Salama b. We know from the Küheyl narrative. Yahya b. It has been noted that Salama was weak in the hadith. Abu'z Za'ra's name is Abadullah b. Hani. The name of Abu'z Za'ra, from whom Shu'ba, Sevri and Ibn Uyeyna narrated hadiths, was Amr b. It is Amr. This person is the friend of Ibn Mas'ud and the son of Abu'l Ahvas' brother.
4176-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “When we came from Yemen with my brother, Abdullah b. Since we always saw Mas'ud with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), we thought he was one of the Ahl al-Bayt of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) because he and his mother used to go in and out of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) very often. ” (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. Sufyan as-Tevri narrated this hadith from Abu Ishaq.
4177-) Abdurrahman b. According to the narration from Yazid (radiy-Allâhu anh), we said, “We came to Huzayfa, and tell us who is closest to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in terms of way and method so that we can get hadith from him and learn.” Huzayfa said: “The closest person to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) in terms of directions was Ibn Mas'ud, even until he disappeared into his house... Those closest to Allah were Abdullah b. He is Mas'ud." (Bukhari, Menakib: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4178-) According to the narration from Ali (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If I had appointed an authorized person without consulting any of my Companions; I would definitely appoint Umm Abd's son." (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is strange. We know this hadith only by the narration of Haris from Ali.
4179-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If I had appointed anyone as an authorized person without consultation, I would have appointed Umm Abd's son." (Ibn Majah, Muqaddimah: 27)
4180-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Amr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “Learn the Qur'an from four people; Ibn Mas'ud, Ubay b. Ka'b, Muâz b. From Salim, the freedman of Cebel and Abu Huzeyfe.” (Bukhari, menakîb: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4181-) Heysem b. According to a narration from Sabra (radiyallahu anh), he said: I came to Medina and asked Allah to make a righteous friend my friend. Allah made Abu Huraira a friend to me. I sat next to him and said to him: “I prayed to Allah to make a righteous person my friend, but Allah made you my friend.” Thereupon, Abu Huraira asked: "Where are you from?" she asked. I said, "I'm in Kufe, no, I came to find it". Abu Huraira said: “Sa'd b. Malik; Ibn Mas'ud, the official of the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and the caretaker of his mule; In the words of Huzayfa and Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), the confidant of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), Ammar, whom Allah protected from the devil, and Salman, who knows both books well, are not among you (you came here to seek goodness!) Qatada says: The two books here are the Bible and the Qur'an.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Hayseme, Abdurrahman b. He is the son of Abi Sabre, but is attributed to his grandfather.
4182-) According to the narration from Huzayfa (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Companions said: “If you would appoint a successor (someone who will take care of his place and make decisions) for the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam)". The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If I had appointed a successor to you, you would be punished if you disobeyed his order. However, whatever Huzeyfe tells you, accept it as true and confirm it. Abdullah b. Read whatever Mas'ud makes you read." (Tirmidhi narrated) said: Ishaq b. I said to Isa: "They say that this hadith is from Abu Wail." “No,” he said. I hope it is from "Zazan". This hadith is hasan as the narration of Sharik.
4183-) It was narrated from Omar (radiyallahu anh). Omar, Usama b. Zayd's salary was three thousand five hundred and his son Abdullah's salary was three thousand. Omar's son said to his father, “Why did you put Usama above me? "No one has ever reached the battlefield before me," he said. Umar replied, “Because Zayd, Usama's father, was more beloved to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) than you, and Usama was more beloved to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) than you. So I preferred what the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) loved over my beloved son.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
4184-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: “We used to call Harise's son Zayd as Zayd the son of Muhammad. The 5th verse of the chapter of Ahzab was revealed and we left this work.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is authentic.
4185-) Zayd's brother Cebele b. According to what Harise (radiyallahu anh) reported, he said: I came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: "Send my brother Zayd with me and I will take him to our country." They said: "Here he is… if he goes with you, I will not prevent him." Thereupon, Zayd said: “O Messenger of Allah! By Allah, I would not choose anyone over you.” Cebele said: “I found my brother's opinion more valuable than my own.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith is only attributed to Ibn Rumi's Ali b. We know it from the narration of Mushir.
4186-) It was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sent a military force and Usama b. Appointed Zayd as commander. The Muslims did not like his command very much. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "You do not like his command, you used to insult his father's command. By Allah, he was truly worthy of command and was one of the most beloved of people to me. After him, this son is one of the most beloved of people to me.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4187-) Ali b. Hucr, İsmail b. Jafar through Abdullah b. He narrated a similar hadith of Anas from Dinar and Ibn Omar.
4188-) Usama b. According to the narration from Zayd (radiyallahu anh), when the illness of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) got worse, I came to Madina like all people, I went to him and he kept quiet and his tongue would not turn. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) put his hands on me and tried to lift me up. I realized that he was praying for me. (Musnad: 20760) This hadith is hasan garib.
4189-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the mother of the believers, she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) tried to fix Usama's dress and tried to fix it. Aisha said: "Let me do it". Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Love Usama because I love him." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
4190-) Usama b. According to the narration from Zayd (radiyallahu anh), he said: I was sitting in front of the door of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). Ali and Abbas came to ask permission and O Usama ask permission to enter the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) presence… I said: “O Messenger of Allah! I said, 'Ali and Abbas are asking permission to enter him. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Do you know why they came?" she asked. And I said, "I don't know". “I know, let them be,” he said. They went in; “O Messenger of Allah! Which of the family people is more lovable to you? We have come to ask you.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Fatimah, daughter of Muhammad." Ali and Abbas: “Who among all your relatives is dearer to you? "We came to ask," they said. “The most dear to me among my people; Usama b. Zayd”. Ali and Abbas: "Then who?" they said. “Ali b. Abi Talib" said. Thereupon, Abbas said: “O Messenger of Allah! you made your uncle the last ones.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Ali surpassed you in the migration." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4191-) Cerir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Since the day I became a Muslim, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) has not turned me away from the door. He would always smile whenever he saw me.” (Muslim, Fedail: 27; Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4192-) According to the narration from Jarir (radiyallahu anh), he said: "Since I became a Muslim, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not turn me away from his door and used to smile every time he saw me." (Muslim, Fedail: 27; Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 17) This hadith is hasan.
4193-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he himself saw Gabriel twice and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prayed for him twice. (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is mursal. We do not know whether Abu Jahdam listened to hadiths from Ibn Abbas. Abu Jahdam's name was Musa b. He is Sâlim. Ubeydullah b. Abdullah b. This hadith was also narrated from Abbas and Ibn Abbas.
4194-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed twice for Allah to give me wisdom.” (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith, as it is, is hasan garib as Ata's narration. The hadith was also reported from Ikrima and Ibn Abbas.
4195-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took me in his bosom and prayed, "O Allah, teach him wisdom." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4196-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), he said: I saw in a dream that I had a piece of brocade (istebrak) cloth in my hand. Wherever I pointed in Heaven with it, it would fly me away. I told this dream to my sister Hafsa. Hafsa also told the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Your brother is a good person or Abdullah is a good person." (Muslim, Fedail: 27; Ibn Majah, Ta'bir: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4197-) According to the narration from Âisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) saw a birth sign in the house of his brother-in-law Zubayr and said: “O Aisha! I think your sister Esma gave birth, don't give a name to that child, I will give her the name” he said. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) named him Abdullah and rubbed his palate with dates. (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Muslim, Adab: 17) This hadith is hasan garib.
4198-) Enes b. According to a narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), he said: While the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) was passing by, my mother, Umm Sulaym, heard his voice and said: "O Messenger of Allah! May my father be sacrificed for my mother, here is my little baby Enescik”. “Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed three prayers for me. I have seen two of these prayers in this world, and I hope to see the third one in the hereafter.” (These prayers were the abundance of wealth and offspring, and the forgiveness of sins.) (Bukhari, Savm: 27; Muslim, Fedaiil: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is. The hadith was also narrated from Anas in a different way.
4199-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) sometimes used to call me “O two-eared”. Abu Usama says: "I mean, he used to say that to joke with him." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27) This hadith is hasan garib authentic.
4200-) According to the narration from Umm Sulaym (radiyallahu anha), she said: "O Messenger of Allah! Enes is your servant. Pray for him." Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed as follows: "O Allah, increase his wealth and family and make it abundant for him with what you have given him." (Bukhari, Savm: 27; Muslim, Fedaiil: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4201-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave me (Abu Hamza) a kind of bean that I was collecting as a tag.” (Musnad: 11838) We know this hadith only from the narration of Jabir al-Cufi from Abu'n Nadr. Abu'n Nasr is Heysama al-Basri. He narrated many hadiths from Anas.
4202-) It is narrated from Sabit al-Bunani (radiyallahu anh), he said: Enes b. Malik said to me, "O steadfast take it from me, you cannot take it from anyone stronger than me because I took it from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took it from Gabriel, and Gabriel took it from Allah." ” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Zayd b. We know from the narration of Hubab.
4203-) Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh) did not say, by narrating a similar hadith from Anas: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) took it from Gabriel.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
4204-) According to the narration from Abu Halde (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Has Anas heard a hadith from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) to Abu 'Aliyah?” I asked. Abu'l Ali answered: "He served the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) for ten years and the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) prayed for him. He had a garden, he used to produce twice a year. There was also Reyhan in this garden, which smelled of musk.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan. Abu Halde's name was Khalid b. It is dinar. He is a reliable person next to the hadith. Ebû Halde Enes b. He reached Malik and narrated hadith from him.
4205-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and spread my clothes in his presence. Then the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) grabbed my dress and gathered it over my heart. After that, I never forgot the hadiths that I memorized from him.” (Bukhari, Muzaraa: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
4206-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiyallahu anh), he said: "O Messenger of Allah! I hear a lot of things from you, but I can't keep them memorized," I said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Spread your clothes." I said: “I spread my dress, he told many hadiths. I did not forget any of the hadiths he told." (Bukhari, Muzaraa: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. It was also narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways.
4207-) It was narrated from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh). Ibn Omar said to Abu Huraira: “O Abu Huraira! You were the one who was with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) the most and memorized his hadiths the most." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan.
4208-) Malik b. According to the narration from Ebî Âmir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A man named Talha b. come to Ubeydullah; “O Abu Muhammad, is Abu Huraira from Yemen more knowledgeable than you? that you hear from him the hadiths that you have not heard from yourself, or is he saying things that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not say? Talha b. Ubaydullah said: “The truth is that he heard things that we did not hear. We have no doubt about it, because he was poor and poor and had nothing. As the guest of the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam), he was staying among the Suffals, and his hand was with the hand of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam). We, on the other hand, were the owners of houses, bark and wealth. We could only come to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) at both ends of the day, that is, in the morning and evening. I have no doubt that Abu Huraira heard things that we did not hear. Not to mention, Abu Huraira, you will not find anyone who has faith and goodness to say something that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not say, as if it were his word." (Tirmidhi narrated.) This hadith is from Muhammad b. As the narration of Ishaq, it is hasan garib. Yunus b. Bukayr and others reported this hadith from Muhammad b. They narrated from Ishaq.
4209-) It was narrated from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked me: “Who are you from?” I said, “I am from the Devs tribe”. Thereupon, they said, "I would not have guessed that a better person could be found than the Devs." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. Halde's name was Khalid b. It is dinar. Abu'l Aliye's name is Rüfey.
4210-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I brought some dates to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and said: “O Messenger of Allah! I said, "Make a prayer of blessings for these dates." He took the dates in his hand and prayed for them to be blessed and said: “Take them in this repertoire or place them in that repertoire. Whenever you want to buy something from these dates, put your hand into the repertoire and take as much as you can, but don't shake it out!” “I carried such and such a quantity of that date in the way of Allah, I was eating it and giving it to others. That sack wouldn't leave my belt. This abundance continued until the murder of Osman.” (Musnad: 8274) This hadith is hasan garib as it is. The hadith was also narrated in a different way from Abu Huraira.
4211-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Rafi (radiyallahu anh) that he said: "I asked Abu Hurayra: Why was Abu Hurayra given to you?" He said: Aren't you bored when you ask me this? So you don't know?" Me too: “I value you and shy away from you.” Thereupon, he answered and said: "I used to herd my family's sheep, I had a small cat, I used to put it in a hole in a tree, and when it was daytime, I would take it with me and play with it, so I was given the tag of Abu Hurayra (Kitten's father)." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
4212-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “I and Abdullah b. There is no one who narrates many hadiths other than Amr. He would write, and I would not.” (Bukhari, Science: 11) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4213-) Abdurrahman b. According to what Abu Umaira narrated from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) used to pray for Muawiya: "O Allah, make him one of those who guide, who are guided, and who are always on the right path." (Musnad: 17222) This hadith is hasan garib.
4214-) According to the narration from Abu Idris al-Havlani (radiyallahu anh), he said: Umar b. Hattab, from the governor of Homs Umayr b. When they dismissed Sa'd and replaced him with Muawiya, the people said that they dismissed Umair and made Muawiya the governor. Thereupon, Umair; He said remember Muawiya with goodness. Because I heard him praying from the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) to make him a means of guidance. (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
4215-) Ukbe b. According to a narration from Amir (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The most Muslim and the most faithful of people is Amr b. It is ace.” (Musnad: 16772) This hadith is strange and we only know it from Ibn Lehia's narration from the Mishrah. It's not very solid.
4216-) Talha b. It was narrated from Ubaydullah (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “Amr b. As is one of the good people of Quraysh.” (Tirmidhi has narrated this hadith.) Only Nafi' b. We know from the narration of Omar al-Jumahi. Nafi' is a reliable person. The hadith is not absolute; because Ibn Abi Mulayka did not catch up with Talha and take hadiths from him.
4217-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We had stopped in a place with the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) and people began to pass by us. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “O Abu Huraira! Who is this?" he asks and I say so and so. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "How good is this servant of Allah". Then: “Who is this?” he asks. I say it is. He says, "What an evil servant of Allah". Finally, Khalid b. Walid passed; “Who is this?” he said. I said: "Khalid b. Walid," I said. “Khalid b. Walid is a good servant of Allah, he is a sword from Allah's swords. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Zayd b. We do not know whether Eslem heard a hadith from Abu Huraira. In my opinion, this hadith is mursal. A hadith has also been narrated from Abu Bakr as Siddiq on this subject.
4218-) It was narrated from Barâ (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: A silk dress was given to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) as a gift, and everyone admired his softness and beauty. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Is it because of the softness and beauty of it? you are amazed; Sa'd b. Muâz's handkerchiefs in Paradise are better than this.” (Bukhari, Bed-il Halk: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) A hadith was also reported from Enes on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
4219-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he says: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said that Sa'd b. While Muaz's funeral was in front of the people, he said: "The Throne of Allah, the Most Gracious, trembled for him." (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) On this subject, Usayd b. Hadith was also narrated from Hudayr, Abu Said and Rumaysa. This hadith is hasan authentic.
4220-) It is narrated from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Sa'd b. While Muaz's corpse was being carried, the hypocrites said, "How light is his corpse," because of his verdict on the Qurayza sons. When this word reached the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), he said: “Angels were carrying him.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4221-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Kais b. Sa'd; He was in the position of chief of police next to the governor.” Ansari says: "In terms of his authority in state affairs..." (Bukhari, Ahkam: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. We know only from the narration of Ansari.
4222-) Muhammed b. Yahya, Muhammed b. Abdullah al-Ansari conveyed a similar hadith to us, but he did not convey the word of Ansari.
4223-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) came to visit me when I was sick, neither on a mule nor on a camel, he came on foot.” (Bukhari, Marda, 27; Muslim, Feraiz: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4224-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) asked for forgiveness for me on the camel night twenty-five times.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib authentic. The meaning of the night: According to what is reported from Jabir, he sold his camel to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) while he was with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) on a journey and made it a condition to ride on it until Madina. Jabir says: The night I sold the camel to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), he asked me for forgiveness twenty-five times. Father: Abdullah b. Amr b. Haram left behind many girls who were martyred in the battle of Uhud. Jabir used to make a living for them and spend them. That's why the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) did good to Jabir and took pity on him. It is narrated from Jabir's narration exactly as it is here.
4225-) According to the narration from Habbab (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “We migrated to gain Allah's approval. Our reward was from Allah. Some of us died without receiving the reward of their good deeds in this world. And some of you have ripened fruits and are now harvesting them. Mus'ab b. Umair was one of those who died leaving a dress behind. When they cover their head with that dress as a shroud, their feet are exposed. When they covered their feet, their head remained uncovered.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "Cover your head with that dress, and put Izhir grass on the feet of your feet." (Bukhari, Cenaiz: 27; Muslim, Cenaiz: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4226-) Hennad, from A'mesh through Ibn Idris, from Abu Vail, from Shakik b. From Salama, Habbab b. He narrated a similar hadith from Eret to us.
4227-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: There are many people in clothes like rags, covered with dust and dust, that they are not taken care of. But if such people take an oath by Allah, Allah will not make them liars in their oaths. Berâ b. Malik is one of them. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is sound hasan as it is.
4228-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Abu Musa, you have been given a mizmar from the mizmars of the Dawud family.” (Bukhari, Fedail: 27; Muslim, Salt-ül Musafirin: 17) This hadith is strange. A hadith has also been narrated from Burayda and Abu Huraira on this subject.
4229-) Sahl b. According to a narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were digging trenches with the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and he was digging a trench and we were carrying his soil, and we were all covered with dust. In this case, the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) was saying: "O Allah, life is only the life of the Hereafter, forgive the Ansar and their Muhajirs..." (Bukhari, Manakîb: 27; Muslim, Jihad: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih in its form. Abu Hazim's name is Salama b. He is Dinar al A'rec ez Zahid. In this regard, Enes b. Hadith was also narrated from Malik.
4230-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Allah, life is only the life of the Hereafter. Give treats to the Ansar and their emigrants…” (Bukhari, Jihad: 27; Muslim, Jihad: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib. It has also been narrated from Enes in a different way.
4231-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) saying: "Fire will not touch a Muslim who sees me or anyone who sees me." Talha says: "I am Jabir b. I saw Abdullah.” Moses says: "I saw Talha". In Yahya: Moses said to me: "You saw me too, so we have hope in Allah." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith is related to Musa b. We know it through the narrations of Ibrahim al-Ansari. Ali b. al-Madini and many hadith scholars have conveyed this hadith to us from Moses.
4232-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The best of people are those who live in my century. Then those who follow them… Then those who follow them… Then there will be societies that will not pay attention to their oaths, so that their oaths will exceed their testimony or as soon as they will testify to everything, their testimony will exceed their oath. In other words, they will not consider the responsibility of witnessing or oath.” (Bukhari, Menakîb: 17; Muslim, Fedail: 27) In this regard, Ömer, Imran b. Hadith was also narrated from Husayn and Burayda. This hadith is authentic.
4233-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “None of those who pledge allegiance under a tree will enter Hell.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4234-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Do not insult my Companions, I swear by Allah, Who has control over my whole being, that if any of you spent gold as much as the mountain of Uhud, cannot reach a scale or even half of what they spend.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. The "nasıfehu" in the hadith means half of the scale.
4235-) Hasan b. Ali al Hallal (he was a hafiz) conveyed a similar hadith to us from A'mash, Abu Salih, and Abu Said al-Khudri through Abu Muawiya.
4236-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mugaffel (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Fear Allah about my Companions! Fear Allah about my Companions! Do not target and criticize them after me. He who loves them loves me because he loves me. Whoever hates them also hates me because he hates me. Whoever torments them is tormenting me. Whoever harms me is hurting Allah. And the one who hurts Allah can be punished immediately by Allah.” (Musnad: 16201) This hadith is garib. We only know this way.
4237-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Those who pledge allegiance under a tree other than the owner of the red camel will definitely enter Paradise.” (Muslim, Adjective-il Hypocrite: 279 This hadith is hasan garib.
4238-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiyallahu anh), Hatib b. A slave of Beltaa came to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and complained about Hatib and said: "O Messenger of Allah! Hatib will definitely go to Hell.” Thereupon, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “You are wrong or you are lying, Hatib will not enter Hell. Because he was involved in the events of Badr and Hudaybiyya." (Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4239-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Burayda (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “If any of my Companions dies in any region, they will be brought to the Day of Judgment as a leader and light for the people of that country.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. This hadith is Abdullah b. It has been narrated by Muslim from Abu Tayba and Abu Burayda as mursal, which is more authentic.
4240-) According to the narration from Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “When you see those who insult my Companions; Say, "May Allah's curse be on you evil ones." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is munkar. This hadith is related to Ubeydullah b. We only know that it is from the narration of Omar. One of the narrators of the hadith, Nadr b. Hammad and Seyf b. Omar are unknown people.
4241-) Misver b. According to what is reported from Mahram (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say on the pulpit: “Hisham b. The sons of Mughira gave their daughters to Ali b. They asked me for permission to marry Abi Talib as the second wife. I will not allow it, I will never allow it, but if Abu Talib's son Ali wants to divorce my daughter and marry their daughter, that is different. it would be upsetting.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic. b. Dinar, from Ibn Abi Mülayke and Misver b. They have conveyed a similar hadith to us from Mahreme.
4242-) According to the narration from Buraydah (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Fatima was the most beloved of women to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and Ali was the most beloved of men.” Abraham b. Said said: "I mean, from the family." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. We only know this way.
4243-) Abdullah b. It was narrated from Zubayr (radiyallahu anh). Ali also talked about marrying Abu Jahl's daughter; When this situation reached the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), he said: “Fatima is a part of me; Whoever upsets him upsets me; Whoever wears him out makes me tired.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic. It says from Ibn Abi Mulayka and Ibn Zubayr, as here. Many narrators; Ibn Abi Mülayke and Misver b. They say from Mahreme.
4244-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Erkam (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about Ali, Fatima, Hasan and Husayn: “I will fight with those you fight and make peace with those you make peace with.” (Ibn Majah, Mukaddime: 27) This hadith is strange. We only know this way. She is not a well-known person who is the freed slave of Umm Salama.
4245-) According to the narration from Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) covered Ali, Fatima, Hasan and Husayn with a veil and said: “My God, these are my family and relatives. Remove their evil from them and make them pure.” Thereupon, Umm Salamah said: “O Messenger of Allah! Am I with them too?” said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "You are also on the good side." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan. It is the most beautiful hadith reported on this subject. 'Umar b. Ebi Seleme, Enes b. Malik, Ebû'l Hamra, Ma'kil b. Hadith was also narrated from Yasar and Aisha.
4246-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the mother of the believers, she said: “I have never seen anyone who resembles the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) more than his daughter Fatima in terms of shape, life and way of standing and sitting. When Fatima entered the Prophet's (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) presence, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) would get up, kiss her and make her sit down. When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) entered her, Fatima would get up from her seat and kiss the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) in the same way and make him sit in her place. When the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) fell ill, Fatima came to him, bent down, kissed him, raised his head and wept, then bent down again and raised his head and smiled. Thereupon, I thought this Fatima was one of the wisest of our women, but I said that she was an ordinary person too.” When the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) died, I asked him; When you bowed to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) and raised your head, you cried, and when you bent down the second time, you laughed. What was the reason for this? Fatima replied: “I am a vain, a person who does not know how to keep a secret. At my first bow, he said that he would die from this disease. That's why I cried. In the second inclination, he said that I would be the first to meet him from the household, and he was the reason why I laughed.” (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan gaib as it is. It was also narrated from Aisha in a different way.
4247-) Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anh) told us that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) called Fatima on the day of the conquest of Mecca and spoke to her secretly. Thereupon, Fatima wept and then said some things that made her laugh. Umm Salamah says: "When the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) died, I asked him why he was laughing and crying, and he replied: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said he was going to die, I cried. He later informed me that I was the master of the ladies of Paradise after Mary, so I laughed.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
4248-) Cümey b. According to the narration from Umayr et Taymi (radiyallahu anh), he said: I went to Aisha with my aunt. Aisha was asked: "Who was more beloved to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) among his close relatives?" “Fatima,” he replied. “Who are the men?” When he was asked, he said: "He is Fatima's husband because he prayed a lot at night and mostly fasted during the day." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Abu'l Cahhaf's name is Dâvûd b. Ebi Avf. It is quoted from Sûfyan es Sevrî: “Ebûl Cahhaf told us, he was an acceptable person.”
4249-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: “I was never jealous of anyone as much as I envied the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) from their wife, Khadija. What if I had caught up with Hatice? The only reason for this was that the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) remembered him a lot. Even when he slaughtered a sheep, he would go around Hatice's friends one by one and give them that meat as a gift.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4250-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: "I did not envy anyone as much as I was jealous of Khadija, whereas the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) married me after Khadija's death. The reason for this is this: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) gave Khadija the glad tidings of a mansion with precious jewels that she will acquire in Paradise, where there is neither noise nor fatigue..." (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasen. means pearl columns.
4251-) Ali b. According to the narration from Ebî Talib (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: I heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “The best woman in your era is Khadija, the daughter of Huveylid. The best of the women in the past century is Meryem, the daughter of Imran.” (Bukhari, Ehadith-ul-Anbiya: 27; Muslim, Fedail-us Sahabe: 17) Hadiths were also narrated from Enes, Ibn Abbas and Aisha on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
4252-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The following are enough for you as an example among the women living on earth: Imran's daughter Mary, Huveylid's daughter Khadija, Muhammad's daughter Fatima and Asiye, the wife of the Pharaoh…” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is authentic.
4253-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha) she said: Hekes was waiting for the day when the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would be with him for the gifts they would send to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). So my partners (kumas) gathered near Umm Salama and said: “O Umm Salama! Everyone watches Aisha's day for their gifts. We do charity work as Aisha did. They said to the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) that he should order any wife to send him a gift no matter who he is with. Umm Salama explained this, but the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) did not compliment it. Then, when it was Umm Salama's turn to watch, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) repeated the same word again and said: "O Messenger of Allah! My partners (my servants) said that they were watching Aisha's day for everyone's gifts. Order the Muslims to send their gifts wherever you are…” When her third watch came, Umm Salama said the same things to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam). Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "O Umm Salama! Don't upset me about Aisha! The truth is, no revelation came to me while I was with any of your wives except Aisha.” (Bukhari, Grant: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. Some say this hadith by Hammad b. Zayd, Hisham b. They narrated from Urwa and his father. b. Urwa also reported this hadith from Awf b. He narrated from Haris, Rumaysa and Umm Salama as a small part of what is here. This hadith was written by Hisham b. It is a hadith narrated from Urwa in various ways. Suleiman b. Bilal, Hisham b. From Urve, from his father, from Aisha, from Hammad b. Similar to Zayd's hadith, he narrated this hadith to us.
4254-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), Gabriel brought a picture of himself on a green silk cloth to the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and said: "This is your wife in this world and in the hereafter." (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan garib. Abdullah b. Amr b. We know from the narration of Alkame. Abdurrahman b. Mahdi reported this hadith from Abdullah b. Amr b. He narrated from Alkame as a mursel with this deed and did not say "from Aisha". Usama de Hisham b. They narrated this hadith closely from Ucre, her father, and Aisha.
4255-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiy-Allâhu anha), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Aisha! This is Jibril, who is greeting you.” I said: "May Allah's peace, mercy and blessings be upon him as well." (Bukhari, Bad-il folk: 279 This hadith is hasan.
4256-) Again, according to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: Jibril is greeting you. I said: "May Allah's peace, mercy and blessings be upon him as well." (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 27; Muslim: Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan.
4257-) According to the narration from Abu Musa (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: If we, as the Companions of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), had a problem about which hadith, we asked Aisha about it, we obtained information from Aisha. ” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4258-) Musa b. According to the narration from Talha (radiyallahu anh), she said: "I have never seen anyone who speaks fluently than Aisha (radiyallahu anha)." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4259-) Amr b. According to the narration from As (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) appointed himself the commander of the army of Zat-as-Salasil, saying: "I came to the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), O Messenger of Allah, which of the people do you think? Is it cuter?" said. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said: "Aisha". "And from men?" said. “Father,” they said. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4260-) Amr b. According to the narration from As (radiyallahu anh), he said: “O Messenger of Allah! Who among the people is very dear to you?” said. “Aisha” he said. "And from men?" said. “Father,” they said. (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 27) This hadith, as it is, was written by İsmail b. As the narration of Qays, it is hasan garib.
4261-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Aisha's superiority over other women is like the superiority of tirit meal to other meals.” (Bukhari, Menakîb: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 27) A hadith was also reported from Aisha and Musa on this subject. This hadith is hasan. Abdullah b. Abdurrahman b. Ma'mer is Abu Tubala al-Ansari. He is from Madinah and is a reliable person. From Malik b. Anas narrated hadith.
4262-) Amr b. According to the narration from Galib (radiyallahu anh), a man, Ammar b. He cursed Aisha next to Yasir, but Ammar said to her: “Disappear from my sight as a low and vulgar one! How can you upset the beloved wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh)? (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan.
4263-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Ziyâd al-Asadî (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: Ammar b. I heard Yasir say: "Aisha is the wife of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) both in this world and in the Hereafter." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27) This hadith is hasan. A hadith has also been narrated from Ali on this subject.
4264-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam): “Which of the people is the most beloved to you?” It was said: "Aisha" he said. "Which of the men?" When it was said, they said: "His father". (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan gharib as it is narrated by Anas.
4265-) According to the narration from Ikrima (radiyallahu anh), he said to Ibn Abbas, after the morning prayer, that one of the wives of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) passed away for one of the wives of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). It was said: Ibn Abbas fell in prostration. Thereupon, he asked him: "Why is this prostration you are doing at this hour?" It was said. He replied, "Didn't the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) command you to prostrate when you see a verse, a sign or a sign? What could be a greater misfortune, a sign than the death of one of the wives of the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam)? (Abu Dawud, Salat: 27) This hadith is hasan garib. But this is how we know it.
4266-) According to a narration from Safiye bint Huyey (radiy-Allâhu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) entered me. I also informed him of a word that Aisha and Hafsa said against me. They said: "You should have said: How can you be better than me? My husband, Muhammad (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) is my father, Harun (alaihis-salâm), and my uncle is Musa (alaihis-salâm). According to Safiyya, the word that reached Safiyya was their saying: "We are more valuable to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) than you. (Reported by Tirmidhi.) A hadith was also reported from Anas on this subject. This hadith is garib. We know this Safiyya hadith only through the narration of Hashim al-Kufi, and its script is not very solid.
4267-) Umm Salama (radiy-Allâhu anha) reported: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) called Fatima in the year of the conquest of Mecca and she secretly said something in her ear, but Fatima wept, then said something, and Fatma smiled. When the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) died, I asked Fatima the reason for her crying and laughing, and she replied: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) informed me that he would die. I cried and then he informed me that I am the lady of Paradise after Imran's daughter Meryem, and I laughed.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
4268-) According to the narration from Anas (radiyallahu anh), he said: Safiye got the news that Hafsa called her "Jewish girl" and Safiye started to cry. He was crying when the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) entered him. Rasûlullah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), what is the event that made you cry? Safiye: Hafsa said she calls me "Jewish girl". The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "You are the daughter of a Prophet, your uncle was also a Prophet, and now you are married to a Prophet. What is he bragging about against you?" Then to Hafsa: “O Hafsa! Fear Allah” he said. (Musnad: 11943) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is.
4269-) According to the narration from Aisha (radiyallahu anha), she said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "The best of you is the one who is best to his family. I am the best person to my family. When a friend (kuma) dies, stop counting his bad deeds.” (Ebû Dâvûd, Adab: 27; Dârimî, Nikah: 17) Although the narration of this hadith from Sevri is small, it is hasan sahih as the narration of Sevri. In the same hadith, Hisham b. It was narrated from Urwa and his father as mursal.
4270-) Abdullah b. According to a narration from Mas'ud (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “No one should send me anything bad for any of his Companions. Because I like to come among them, freed from all evil and resentment.” Abdullah said: A property was brought to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) and the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) divided that property among his Companions… Then I came to the two men sitting next to them and they were talking: “By Allah, what did Muhammad do in this division? He did it by thinking about the pleasure of Allah and the Paradise in the hereafter. Moses was persecuted more than that, and he endured all that persecution.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27) This hadith is strange in its form. A man has been added to the hadith.
4271-) Abdullah b. According to the narration from Mas'ud (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "Do not convey anything to me from anyone." (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27) This hadith is Abdullah b. He narrated from Mas'ud in a similar way in different ways.
4272-) Ubey b. It was narrated from Ka'b (radiyallahu anh); The Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to Ubay: "Allah ordered me to recite the Qur'an to you," and recited the chapter of Beyna and said: "The true religion in the sight of Allah is true Islam. Judaism is not Christianity and Magus. Whoever does good will definitely be rewarded.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) continued his speech as follows: “If the son of Adam had a valley full of property, he would want to add a second to it, or if he had a second, he would want to acquire the third. Only earth fills the void of Adam's son. Allah accepts the repentance of those who repent.” (Musnad: 20257) This hadith is hasan. This hadith has also been narrated in another way. Abdullah b. Abdurrahman b. Ebza from his father Ubey b. Narrated by Ka'b, he said: "Allah has ordered me to recite the Qur'an to you." Narrated by Qatada, Ubay b. He said about Ka'b: "Allah has ordered me to recite the Qur'an to you."
4273-) Ubey b. According to a narration from Ka'b (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If there was no migration, I would like to be one of the Ansar." (Musnad: 20294)
4274-) Berâ b. Azib (radiy-Allâhu anh) heard the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) say: “The believers love Ansar. Only hypocrites hate the Ansar. Whoever loves them, Allah loves them, and whoever hates them, Allah hates them.” Thereupon, Adiy b. to Fixed; “Are you from Bara this hadith? did you hear?" we asked. Adiyy said: “He told me personally”. (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) This hadith is authentic.
4275-) It is narrated that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said in this year: "If people were to gather in a valley, I would be with the Ansar." This hadith is hasan authentic.
4276-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “He gathered some people from the Ansar and are there any among you who are not among you?” he commanded. They said, "No, we only have one sister's child." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The children of the sisters of a society are considered to be from that society." He then continued: "The Quraysh have just emerged from a calamity like ignorance. I wanted to win their hearts by giving abundantly from the spoils of Havaz and to warm them to Islam. While everyone is returning home with worldly goods, is it not pleasing to you that you return with the Prophet of Allah?” Thereupon, the Ansar replied, "Yes, it will please you". The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If all the people entered one valley and another valley in the Ansar, I would definitely cross into the valley of the Ansar." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Zakat: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4277-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Erkam (radiyallahu anh); Zayd, Enes b. to Malik; He sent a letter of condolence to those he lost from his family and uncles in the Hare case, and wrote in the letter: “I give you the good news of divine good news. I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) praying: O Allah! Forgive the Ansar, their descendants and their descendants.” (Muslim, Fedail: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4278-) Ahmed b. Menî', through Hüseym Ali b. Zayd b. Ced'an and Nadr b. They have transmitted this hadith from Enes to us. Qatada de Nadr b. From Enes and Zayd b. He narrated from Arkam.
4279-) According to a narration from Abu Talha (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to me: "Say greetings to the people of Ansar, as far as I know, they are chaste and patient." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib.
4280-) According to the narration from Abu Said al-Khudri (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Beware, the people I took refuge in are my Ahl al-bayt. Ansar is also my confidant. Forgive the bad ones. Accept the apologies of the good ones as well.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan. A hadith has also been narrated from Anas on this subject.
4281-) According to the narration from Sa'd (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Whoever wants Quraysh to be humbled, Allah will humble him." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form.
4282-) Abd b. Humayd, Yakub b. Abraham b. Sa'd said: My father Salih b. He conveyed a similar hadith to us from Kaysan and Ibn Shihab with the same deed.
4283-) According to a narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “No one who believes in Allah and the Last Day hates Ansar.” (Musnad: 2679) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4284-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The Ansar are my group and my refuge. People will multiply; Ansar will decrease, accept their apologies from their good ones, and turn a blind eye to the evils of their wicked ones.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4285-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “O Allah! You made the previous ones of Quraysh taste the punishment, and increase your blessings to the next ones.” (Musnad: 2062) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4286-) Abdulvehhab el Verrak, Yahya b. Said al-Umayyad narrated a similar hadith to us from A'mash.
4287-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) prayed as follows: “O Allah! Forgive the sons of the Ansar, the sons of the sons of the Ansar, and the women of the Ansar.” (Muslim, Fedail: 27) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
4288-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Beware! Shall I inform you of the best of the Ansar families?" he commanded. The Companions said: Yes, O Messenger of Allah. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The sons of Najjar, then Haris b. Khazrecoğulları. Then Haris b. Khazrecoğulları. Then the Saideoğulları…” Then he first gathered his fingers, then spread them, like a person who throws something with his hands, pointing with his hand, and said: “There is good in all the families of the Ansar.” (Muslim, Fedail: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. The hadith is also narrated from Anas, Abu Usayd es Saidi and the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam).
4289-) According to the narration from Abu Usayd es Saidi (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "The best of the Ansar sons, Neccaroğulları, then Abduleşheloğlu, then Haris b. The Hazrecoğulları are then the Saideoğulları. There is goodness in all the families of the Ansar.” Sa'd b. Ubade says: "I see that the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) preferred many of us." It was said, "He has made you superior to many." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic. The name of Abu Useyd es Saidi is Malik b. It is Rabia. A similar hadith was narrated from Abu Huraira. Zuhri, Abu Salama, Ubeydullah b. Abdullah b. He narrated this hadith from Ubayda and Abu Huraira.
4290-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: "The best of the Ansar sons are the sons of Najjar." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form.
4291-) Jabir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: "The best of the Ansar are the sons of Abduleshhel." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange in its form.
4292-) According to the narration from Ali (radiyallahu anh), he said: We went out with the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) Sa'd b. When I arrived at Harret-us Sukya, which belonged to Ebî Vakkâs, the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: "Bring me the water for wudu." He performed ablution, turned to the qibla and prayed: “O Allah! Ibrahim was your servant and friend, and he prayed for you for the people of Mecca. I am also your servant and Prophet, for the people of Medina; I pray to you, make the scales of the people of Medina twice as blessed as you blessed the people of Mecca. Make two blessings with every blessing.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan authentic. In this regard, Âisha, Abdullah b. Hadith was also narrated from Zayd and Abu Huraira.
4293-) Ali b. According to a narration from Abu Talib and Abu Hurairah (radiy-Allâhu anhuma), they said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Between my house and my pulpit is a garden from the Gardens of Paradise.” (Bukhari, Friday: 27; Muslim, Hajj: 17) As such, this hadith is hasan garib as Ali's hadith. It has also been narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways.
4294-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Between my pulpit and my house; It is a garden from the gardens of Paradise.” It is narrated that the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said in this year: "The prayer in my mosque is a thousand times better than the prayers performed in other mosques other than Masjid al-Haram." (Bukhari, Friday: 27; Muslim, Hajj: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4295-) It has been narrated from Abu Huraira in different ways.
4296-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Whoever can settle in Medina and die there, let him die there; because I will intercede for those who died in Medina.” (Ibn Mâce, Menasik: 179 A hadith was also narrated from Sübey'a bint-l Haris al-Aslemiyye on this subject. As the narration of Eyyub es Sahtiyani, this hadith is hasan garib.
4297-) It was narrated from Ibn Omar (radiyallahu anh): "I am having a hard time coming to the woman whom Ibn Omar liberated and liberated, so I want to go to Iraq." Thereupon, Ibn Umar replied: “Why not to Damascus, which is the gathering place… Be patient, foolish woman… I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) say: Whoever puts up with the hardship and famine in Madina, I will meet him on the Day of Judgment. I will be a witness and an intercessor.” (Muslim, Hajj: 27) In this regard, Abu Said, Sûfyan b. A hadith was also narrated from ebî Zuhayr and Sübey'a al-Aslemiyye. This hadith is hasan sahih as it is narrated by Ubaydullah.
4298-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “The last country to be destroyed among the Islamic countries is Medina.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. Only Hisham b. We know it from the narration of Urwa from Cunade. Muhammed b. Ismail was astonished at this hadith of Abu Huraira.
4299-) According to the narration from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh): A Bedouin told the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam); He pledged allegiance to being a Muslim. He got malaria in Medina and came to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) and said: "Return my allegiance." The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not accept it. Then he came again and said, "Give back my allegiance." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) still did not accept it, but that bedouin left Medina. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Madinah is like a crucible, it throws away its dirt and leaves the clean one." (Bukhari, Hajj: 27; Muslim, Hajj: 17) A hadith was also reported from Abu Huraira on this subject. This hadith is hasan authentic.
4300-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: If I see the Medina gazelles spreading, I will not frighten them; because the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The area between the two stone quarries of Medina is sacred and unlawful." (Bukhari, Hajj: 27; Muslim, Hajj: 17) Said, Abdullah b. Zeyd, Enes, Ebû Eyyûb, Zeyd b. Sabit, Rafi' b. Hadîç, Sehl b. Hadith was also narrated from Hunayf and Jabir. The hadith of Abu Huraira is hasan authentic.
4301-) Enes b. According to the narration from Malik (radiy-Allâhu anh), Mount Uhud appeared to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam), upon which he said: “This is a mountain that loves us and we love it. my god! Abraham made Mecca haram. I also forbid the area between two stony rocks in Medina.” (Bukhari, Hajj: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4302-) Cerir b. According to the narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) said: Allah informed me when I was about to emigrate: “Which of these three cities you go to is your home of migration; Medina, Bahrain and Kinnasrîn.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Only Fadl b. We know from the narration of Moses.
4303-) According to the narration from Abu Huraira (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever is patient and endures all kinds of troubles in Madina, I will be a witness and intercessor for him on the Day of Judgment.” (Muslim, Hajj: 27) In this regard, Abu Said, Sûfyan b. Hadith was also narrated from Abi Zuhayr and Subayatel Eslamiyye. This hadith is hasan garib as it is. Salih b. Abu Salih; Süheyl b. He is the brother of Abu Salih.
4304-) Abdullah b. Adiy b. According to the narration from Hamra az-Zuhri (radiyallahu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) stood in a place called Hazwara and said: "O Mecca! By Allah, you are the best country on earth and the most beloved to Allah, I would not have left if I had not been expelled from you.” (Ibn Majah, Menasik: 279 This hadith is hasan garib authentic. He narrated this hadith similarly from Zuhri. Muhammad bin Amr also narrated this hadith from Abu Salama and Abu Hurayra. From Abu Salama and Abdullah b. I think the narration from Adiyy b. Hamra is more authentic.
4305-) According to the narration from Ibn Abbas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said about Mecca: “What a beautiful country you are, how lovely you are to me. If my people had not driven me out of you, I would not have lived in anyone but you.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib as it is.
4306-) According to the narration from Salman (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to me: “O Salman! Do not resent me, or you will be separated from your religion.” Thereupon he said: “O Messenger of Allah! How can I hate you; Allah has guided us through you.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "If you hate the Arab, you will hate me". (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan garib. This hadith was only reported by Abu Badr, Şüca b. We know from Walid's narration. Muhammed b. I heard from Ismail, he was saying: Abu Zabyan did not catch up with Salman. Selman passed away before Ali.
4307-) Osman b. According to the narration from Affan (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Whoever deceives an Arab cannot gain my intercession and my love will not reach him.” (Musnad: 488) This hadith is garib and only Husayn b. We know it from the narration of Omar al-Ahmesi from Muharik. Husayn is not a solid person in the company of hadith scholars.
4308-) Muhammed b. According to the narration from her mother through Abî Ruzeyn (radiy-Allâhu anh), she said: Ummul Jarir had a hard time when an Arab died. It was then said to him that when an Arab dies, he is going through a difficult situation. I heard my master say: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "One of the signs of the Doomsday approaching is the breaking of an Arab." (Tirmidhi narrated it.) b. Rezin says: The master of the narrator Talha b. He is Malik. This hadith is garib. Suleiman b. We know from Harb's narration.
4309-) Jabir b. According to a narration from Abdullah (radiyallahu anh), Umm Shurayk told me that the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) said to me: "People will seek refuge in the mountains by escaping from the evil of the Dajjal." Umm Shurayk said: “O Messenger of Allah! Where are the Arabs that day?” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "They will be very few on that day." (Muslim, Fitan: 27) This hadith is hasan garib.
4310-) Samura b. According to a narration from Jundub (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “Sam; He is the ancestor of the Arabs. Yafis: He is the ancestor of the Greeks. Ham is the ancestor of the Abyssinians.” (Musnad: 19240) This hadith is hasan. Yafis is also called Yafit or Yefit.
4311-) According to a narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “Non-Arab societies were mentioned in the presence of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) but the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “They or some of them against me; I trust you and some of you more than I am.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. Only Abu Bakr b. We know from the narration of Ayyaş. Salih b. Abu Salih, Salih b. It is called in Mehran. Amr b. He is the freedman of Hureys.
4312-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We were with the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) when the chapter of Friday was revealed; The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) recited this surah, and when he came to the third verse, a man said: O Messenger of Allah! Who are the people who have not reached us? The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) did not answer. Salman-i Farisi was among us. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) placed his hand on Salman and said: “I swear by Allah, in whose hand is my life, that if Iman was in the star of Sureyya; some of these people would get it.” (Bukhari, Tafsir-ul Qur'an: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan. It is also narrated from Abu Huraira in a different way. Abu'l Gays's name is Salim. Abdullah b. He is the freed slave of Muti and is from Medina.
4313-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) looked towards Yemen and said: “O Allah! Turn their hearts towards us, and bless all our scales.” (Musnad: 20625) This hadith is Zayd b. As the narration of Sabit, it is hasan sahih garib. We know this hadith only as the narration of Imran al-Kattan.
4314-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The people of Yemen have come to you. Their hearts are softer, their hearts are more sensitive. Faith is from Yemen, and wisdom is from Yemen.” (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 27; Muslim, Faith: 17) A hadith was also reported from Ibn Abbas and Ibn Mas'ud on this subject. The hadith is hasan authentic.
4315-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The head of state is in the Quraysh, the kadi is in the Ansar, the muezzin is in the Abyssinians, and the trust is in Ezd, that is, the Yemenis.” (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
4316-) Muhammed b. Beşşar, Abdurrahman b. Mahdi through Muaviye b. They have narrated a similar hadith from Salih, Abu Meryem al-Ansari, and Abu Huraira without any excuse. This narration is Zayd b. It is stronger than the narration of Hubab.
4317-) According to the narration from Anas (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The Azd tribe are the lions of Allah on earth. Even if people try to humiliate them, God will elevate them. There will come a time when people will say: I wish my father was from Ezd, I wish my mother was from Ezd.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We only know this way. This hadith was narrated from Anas in the same vein: I think this narration is more reliable.
4318-) Gaylân b. According to the narration from Jarir (radiyallahu anh), he said: Enes b. I heard from Malik that he was saying: "We cannot be human beings in a perfect sense if we are not from the tribe of Ezd." (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4319-) According to the narration from Abu Hurairah (radiyallahu anh), he said: We were in the presence of the Prophet (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam), then a man came. This man, who I thought was from the Qays tribe, said: “O Messenger of Allah! Curse Himer.” The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) turned away from him, then that person came to the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) from the other side. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) turned away from him again. Then the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Allah, spare Himyer, their mouths do not utter bad words, they always give, and food comes out of their hands. They have security and faith.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is strange and we know it only as Abdurrazak's hadith. Munkar hadiths are narrated from Mina, one of the narrators of the hadith.
4320-) According to the narration from Abu Ayyub al-Ansari (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “The descendants of Ansâr, Müzeyne, Juheyna, Gifâr, Eşca' and Abduddar are my allies and friends. They have no friends other than Allah. Allah and His Prophet are also their friends.” (Muslim, Fedail: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4321-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “The tribe of Aslam, whom Allah converted to Islam. The tribe of Ghifar, may Allah forgive them. The Usayya tribe rebelled against Allah and His Messenger." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4322-) It was narrated from Jabir (radiy-Allâhu anh) that he said: During the siege of Taif, the soldiers said: “O Messenger of Allah! Sakîf's arrows burned us, curse them.” However, the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) prayed, “O Allah, guide the tribe of Sekîf.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is hasan sahih garib.
4323-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: “The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) died while serving three tribes; Sakif, Beni Hanife and Beni Umayya.” (Reported by Tirmidhi.) This hadith is garib. We only know this way.
4324-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "There is a liar and an oppressor who will emerge from the tribe of Sakif." (Tirmidhi narrated it.)
4325-) Abdurrahman b. Waqid narrated a similar hadith from Sharik through Abu Muslim. Abdullah b. Asım is known as Abu Ulvan, he is from Kufa. This hadith is hasan garib. We know only from Sharik's narration. Sharik: “Abdullah b. Asim,” he says. Israel narrated a hadith from this old man and said, “Abdullah b. Usme," he said. A hadith has also been narrated from Asma bint ebÎ Bakr on this subject.
4326-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), one of the Bedouins presented a young camel to the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) returned his gift by giving him six camels instead. But the Bedouin was not satisfied with this and became angry. When the situation reached the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), he praised Allah, praised him, and said: “So-and-so gave me a camel. And I answered him with six camels; but still not satisfied. Because of this, I felt like this: I will not accept gifts from anyone other than Quraysh, Ansar, Sekif and Devsli.” (Abu Dawud, Magic': 27) This hadith is longer than the one here. This hadith was also narrated from Abu Huraira in another way. Yazid b. Harun narrates from Abu Ayyub, from Abu'l A'la. This person was Abu Ayyub b. It is sluggish. He is also called Ibn Abi Miskin. Ayyub b. Miskin is Ayyub Abu'l A'la.
4327-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A man from the sons of Fezare gave the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) one of the camels they had taken as booty in the case of Elgabe. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) gave some gifts in return for this. But the man was angry and dissatisfied. Then, I heard the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) say, over the pulpit: "There are some Arab people: One of them gives a gift as a gift, and I respond to him as best I can, and he doesn't like it and gets offended. I swear by Allah that from now on, I will no longer accept gifts from any Arab other than Quraysh, Ansar, Sekifli, and Devsli.” (Abu Dawud, Magic': 27) This hadith is hasan. Yazid b. It is more authentic than the hadith that Harun narrated from Ayyub.
4328-) According to the narration from Abu Amir al-Ash'ari (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: What good tribes Asad and Ash'aris are. They do not flee from the war and do not betray the booty, they are from me and I am from them. When I narrated this hadith to Muawiya, the Prophet (sallallahu 'alaihi wa sallam) did not say this; He said, "They are from me and me." I replied: But my father told me this way, he told me this way: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh): "They are from me and I am from them." Thereupon, Muawiya said, "You know your father's hadith better." (16540) This hadith is hasan garib. Wahb b. We know it as Cerir's narration. It is also said to be "Ezd".
4329-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Prophet (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “May Allah give peace to the tribe of Aslam. May Allah forgive the tribe of Ghifar.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is authentic. On this subject, hadiths were also narrated from Abu Zer, Burda, Burayda and Abu Hurayra.
4330-) Abdullah b. A similar hadith was reported from Dinar (radiy-Allâhu anh) and he added the following: “Usayya, on the other hand, rebelled against Allah and His Messenger.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4331-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “I swear by the one who has control over Muhammad (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam)’s whole being, that I am Gifâr, Eslem, Muzayna. and Juheyne people -or Juheyna- said. The people of Müzeyne are better in the sight of Allah than the tribes of Asd, Tay and Ghatafan on the Day of Judgment.” (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4332-) Imran b. According to the narration from Husayn (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: A group of the sons of Tamim came to the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam): "O sons of Tamim! Good news to you” he said. They said: "You gave us the good news, so give it to us". Thereupon, the color of the Prophet (sall-Allâhu 'alaihi wa sallam) changed. Then, a group of people from Yemen came and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said to them: "You accept the gift that the sons of Tamim did not accept." And they said: "We accept". (Bukhari, Bed-ül Halk: 27) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4333-) According to the narration from Abu Bakr (radiyallahu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sallallahu alaihi wa sallam) said: “Aslem, Gıfar and Müzeyna; Temim, Esd, Ğatafan, Beni Âmir b. They are better than Sa'saa (he raised his voice in these words)". Thereupon, the Companions said: "These tribes are in loss and loss." The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said again: "They are better than these." (Bukhari, Menakib: 27; Muslim, Fedail: 17) This hadith is hasan authentic.
4334-) According to the narration from Ibn Umar (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (sall-Allâhu ’alaihi wa sallam) said: “O Allah, bless our Sham and our Yemen.” Thereupon, the Companions said: "And also our Najd". The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "O Allah, bless our Damascus, bless our Yemen." The Companions again said: "And also our Necid". The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "The tremors and strife are there. The devil's horn will come out either there or there.” (Bukhari, Bad-il Halk: 27) This hadith is hasan sahih garib as it is narrated by Ibn Avn. This hadith is similar to Salim b. Abdullah b. It was also narrated from Omar.
4335-) Zayd b. According to the narration from Thabit (radiy-Allâhu anh), he said: We were compiling the Qur'an from written parts in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh). The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said: "Blessed is Sham." We said: "For what reasons, O Messenger of Allah!" we said. The Messenger of Allah (sallallahu 'alayhi wa sallam) said, "The angels of the Most Merciful have stretched their wings over Damascus." (Musnad: 20621) This hadith is hasan garib. Yahya b. We know from the narration of Ayyub.
4336-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Some communities should stop boasting about their deceased ancestors, because they are the coal of Hell, otherwise they will be worth less in the sight of Allah than an insect in the dirt. Allah removed the pride of ignorance and the evil of boasting about their ancestors. After that, there is the pious believer and the unfortunate sinner. All humans are sons of Adam. Adam was also created from dust.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27) A hadith was also narrated from Ibn Umar and Ibn Abbas on this subject. This hadith is hasan garib.
4337-) According to the narration from Abu Hurayra (radiy-Allâhu anh), the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: “Allah has removed from you the pride of ignorance and the evil of boasting about your ancestors. People are divided into two groups as taqwa believers and unfortunate sinners. People are the sons of Adam, and Adam is from the earth.” (Abu Dawud, Adab: 27) This hadith is more authentic than the first hadith. Said al Makburi heard hadith from Abu Huraira, many hadiths were narrated from Abu Huraira through his father.