10. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having one day appeared to the public, a man came and said to him: “O Messenger of God! what faith?". - "It is, he replied, to believe in God, in His angels, in His Book, in His encounter, in His Prophets and in the Resurrection". - "O Messenger of God! What is Islam?", resumed the man. - "Islam, says the Prophet, consists in worshiping God without ever giving Him associates, in performing the prescribed prayer, in paying legal alms (Az-Zakâ), in fasting Ramadan". - "O Messenger of God! What is perfection (al-'ihsân)?", asked the man. - "It is, replied the Prophet, to adore God as if you were seeing Him. For although you do not see Him, He certainly sees you". - "O Messenger of God! When will the Supreme Hour take place?", resumed the man. “The person questioned, he says, knows no more than the questioner. I will rather speak to you of his prodromes: When the slave will give birth to his master; and that the shepherds of the sheep will wallow in their lofty buildings. This Hour is one of the five (events) that only God holds the secret". And the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to recite this verse: The knowledge of the Hour and with God; and it is He who causes the saving rain to fall; and He knows what is in the wombs. And no one knows what he will acquire tomorrow, and no one knows in what land he will die. Certainly God is Omniscient and Perfectly Knower. The man immediately left and when the Prophet (peace be upon him) ordered him to come back, no one could detect the slightest trace of the man. "This man, said the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), is Gabriel; he came to teach men their religion". Prayers considered one of the pillars of Islam
12. Talha Ibn 'Ubaydillah (may God be pleased with him) said: A man from Nejd with shaggy hair came to the Prophet (peace be upon him). We heard the sound of his voice without distinguishing what he was saying. When he approached the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him), we found that he was asking him about Islam. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) answered him: "Five prayers to perform during the day and the night". - "Should I perform other prayers?" asked the man. - "No, unless you want to do extra work". - "There is also the fast of Ramadan", resumed the Prophet. - "Should I observe other fasts?", added the man. - "No, unless you want to do extra work", said the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), who then mentioned legal alms (Az-Zaka). - "Do I have to pay other alms?" asked the man. - "No, unless you want to do extra work", repeated the Prophet. The man went away saying, "By God! I won't do anything more or anything less." The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said: "He will succeed if he is sincere". Questions about the pillars of Islam
13. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: We were forbidden to ask useless questions to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him); so we were pleased that a sensible Bedouin came to him (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to ask for clarification and we to hear his answers. It happened that a Bedouin came to the Prophet and said: "O Muhammad! Your messenger has come to inform us that you claim that God has entrusted you with a Mission". - "He spoke the truth", replied the Prophet. - "Who is the Creator of the sky?", resumed the Bedouin. - "God". - "Who is the Creator of the earth?". - "God". - "Who erected these mountains and put the useful things there?". - "God". - "So! By the Creator of heaven and earth, who erected these mountains, is it God who sent you?". - "Yes". - "Your messenger also claimed that we should perform five prayers throughout the day and night". - "He said the truth". - "By Him who sent you! Is it God who prescribed them to you?". "Yes" - "Your messenger also claimed that we had to pay legal alms (Az-Zakâ) taken from our goods (to purify them)". - "He said the truth". - "By Him who sent you! Is it God who prescribed it to you?". - "Yes". - "Your messenger also claimed that we should fast annually during the month of Ramadan?". - "He said the truth". - "By Him who sent you! Is it God who prescribed it to you?". - "Yes". - "Your messenger again claimed that each of us should perform Hajj if he had the means". - "He said the truth". - "Well!, concludes the man, by Him who sent you with the Truth, I will conform to these prescriptions without adding or omitting anything". - "If this man is sincere, finally said the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he will surely enter Paradise". He who observes what he has been commanded will enter Paradise
14. According to Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari (may God be pleased with him), a Bedouin came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) during one of his journeys, seized the halter of his camel, then said : "O Messenger of God (or "O Muhammad") Tell me what will clear the way for me to Paradise and lead me away from Hell". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) stopped, turned to his companions and said: "It is a goal he is looking for. Repeat what you have just said!". To the repeated question, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "Worship God, without associating anything with Him; observe prayer; pay legal alms (Az-Zaka) and heal your blood ties... Release the camel!".
16. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), a Bedouin came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God! Show me a work that will clear the way for me to Paradise ". - "You have only to adore God, answered the Prophet; without associating anything with Him, to observe the prescribed prayer; to pay the legal alms (Az-Zakâ) and to fast during Ramadan". - "By Him who holds my life in His hands! I will do nothing more or less", replied the Bedouin. As soon as the man left, the Prophet said: "Let him who rejoices to see one of the guests of Paradise, look at this man". Pillars and Foundations of Islam
19. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (the Most High) said: "Islam is built on five pillars: the oneness of God; the practice of prayer (As- Salâ); the payment of legal alms (Az-Zakâ); the Ramadan fast (As-Siyam) and the performance of Hajj". Order to believe in God the Most High, in His Messenger, and in the law of religion, to induce to embrace this religion, to inquire about it, to observe it, and to communicate it to him who didn't know about it
23. Narrated Ibn 'Abbas ( رضي الله عنهما ): A deputation from 'Abd Al-Qays came to the Prophet (peace be upon him). The deputies said, "O Messenger of God! We are the people of Rabi'a. It is impossible for us to come to you except during the Holy Months because of that disbelieving tribe of Mudar who came between you and us. Point out to us some prescriptions so that we will follow them and preach them at home (on our return)". The Prophet answered: "I prescribed four things for you and forbade you four others. I enjoined you to believe in God, - he explained this by saying - This consists in declaring that there is no other divinity but God and that Muhammad is the Messenger of God". He then ordered them to practice prayer, to pay the legal alms (Az-Zakâ) and to pay one-fifth of the booty. He forbade them the use of the calabash, the hantam (container made of mud, hair and blood), the trough (naqîr, palm tree trunk dug into a barrel) and the muqayyar (receptacle coated with resin). (NB: These utensils were intended to ferment intoxicating drinks). Order to testify that there is no god but God and that Muhammad is the Messenger of God
27. According to Mu'adh Ibn Jabal (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) entrusted me with a mission in Yemen. (Before leaving), he said to me: "You will go to the people of the Book. When you are among them, invite them to testify that there is no other divinity but God, and that Muhammad is the Messenger of God. If they comply with this invitation, inform them that God prescribes five prayers for them to perform day and night. If they consent, inform them that God prescribes for them an alms which will be collected from the rich among them to be spent on the poor among them. If they submit to all this, be careful not to touch their precious goods and fear the complaint of the oppressed, for nothing comes between God and it". Order to fight people until they testify that there is no god but God and that Muhammad is the Messenger of God to perform prayers, to give legal alms, to believe to the whole of the prophetic mission. Whoever bends to these rules will protect his soul and his property. What his heart hides will be a matter to be settled before God, the Exalted. Order to fight those who neglect legal alms or other Islamic law. The imam is concerned with the rites of Islam
29. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: On the death of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), when Abu Bakr was invested with the caliphate and a certain number of Arabs renounced their faith, said to Abu Bakr: "How are you going to fight them when the Messenger of God (the Most High) said: I have been ordered to fight the idolaters until they confess that there is no god but God. He who testifies to the oneness of God, make his life and property inviolable, except in case he should be found guilty, and it is to God that he will belong to settle his account". Abu Bakr replied: "By God! I will fight anyone who makes a distinction between prayer and legal almsgiving (Az-Zaka); for the latter is the due of goods (i.e. the right of God over our goods like prayer and fasting are the right of God on our body.) By God, if they refuse me a halter which they delivered in tax to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), I will fight them for this refusal".
30. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "I have been ordered to fight the idolaters until they confess that there is no other divinity but God. He who confesses it has nothing to fear from me: his life and his property shall remain inviolable, except in case he should be accused by law, and c It is God who will take care of settling his score".
33. According to Abdullah Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "I have been ordered to fight the idolaters relentlessly until that they profess that there is no god but God and that Muhammad is the Messenger of God, that they perform prayer and that they pay legal alms (Az-Zaka). they do so, their lives and their property will be inviolable to me, except in the event that they are condemned by law and it is God who will take care of settling their accounts”. Validity of the Islam of the dying person if he is not yet at the point of death. Repeal of permission to seek forgiveness in favor of polytheists and proof that whoever dies a polytheist will be damned and can never be redeemed
35. Al-Musayyab Ibn Hazn (may God be pleased with him) said: When Abu Talib was near death, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came to see him and found at home Abu Jahl and 'Abdallâh Ibn 'Abi 'Umayya Ibn Al-Mughîra. The Messenger of God spoke to Abu Talib saying: "O my uncle, testify that there is no other divinity but God. This is a word that I will witness in your favor with God. ". Immediately Abu Jahl and 'Abdallâh Ibn 'Abi 'Umayya exclaimed: "O Abu Talib, are you going to deny the faith of 'Abd Al-Muttalib?" The Messenger of God kept suggesting that he pronounce the profession of faith by repeating the same words (while the two others repeated the same words to him). But, the last words of Abu Talib were that he persisted in the faith of 'Abd Al-Muttalib by refusing to attest that there is no other deity but God. - "By God!, cried the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), I will ask God to forgive you, as long as it is not forbidden to me". It was on this occasion that God, the Most High, revealed this verse: It is not for the Prophet and the Believers to implore forgiveness in favor of the polytheists, even if they were parents when it became clear to them that they are the people of Hell. Then, God, the Almighty, revealed about Abu Talib, addressing the Messenger of God this verse: You (Muhammad) do not direct the one you love: but it is God who guides whom He wants. He knows better, however, the well-guided. Whoever testifies to the oneness of God and dies in this state will surely enter Paradise.
41. According to 'Ubada Ibn Sâmit (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever bears witness that there is no other divinity but God, the Unique who has no associates; that Muhammad is his worshiper and his messenger; that Jesus ('Isa) is the worshiper of God, son of his worshiper, his word which he sent to Mary and his spirit; and that Heaven is true and Hell is true, God will cause him to enter Paradise at will through any of these eight gates."
43. Mu'adh Ibn Jabal (may God be pleased with him) said: One day when I was behind the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), separated from him only by the end of the saddle, he said to me: "Hey! Mu'adh!". - "O Messenger of God! At your service! At your orders!". After we move forward for a while, he will call me again: "Hey! Mu'adh!". - "O Messenger of God! At your service! At your orders!". We walked another moment and there he repeated to me again: "Hey! Mu'adh!". - "O Messenger of God! At your service! At your orders!!" - "Do you know, he resumed, the rights of God over His worshippers?". - "God and His envoy know it better than anyone", I said. - "The rights of God over the adorers, he says, is that they adore Him without associating anything with Him". We continued walking for another moment, then he said to me: "Hey! Mu'adh!" - "O Messenger of God! At your service! At your orders!". - "Do you know what God will owe to men if they act in this way?". - "God and His envoy know it better than anyone", I answered. And he adds: "It's not to punish them".
47. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him): Mu'âdh Ibn Jabal was one day sitting on the back of a camel behind the Prophet. The latter addressed him saying: "O Mu'adh!". - "O Messenger of God! At your service! At your orders!", answered Mu'âdh. The Prophet repeated his appeal twice and always received the same answer. Then he said: "Anyone who testifies that there is no god but God and that Muhammad is the Worshiper and the Messenger of God will not fail to be preserved - by God - from the fire of Hell". - "O Messenger of God!, resumed Mu'âdh, should I not inform the faithful to rejoice them?". - "No, replied the Prophet, they risk relying on it (to suppress all religious practice)". (Mu'adh transmitted this tradition when he was at the chapter of death, lest he commit a sin by concealing a teaching of the Prophet).
48. According to 'Itbân Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him): Mahmûd Ibn Ar-Rabî' said: "I came to Medina to find 'Itbân Ibn Mâlik whom I asked to transmit to me the words that the Prophet had with him" . This one then told the following story: "I can no longer trust my sight. I then sent the Messenger of God to ask him to come and pray at my house, in a place which I will then use as a place of prayer. The Messenger of God then came to my house, escorted by his companions. While the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was praying at my house, a group of his companions gathered and made Mâlik Ibn Dukhchum a subject of talk and condemnation because of his hypocrisy. They wanted the Prophet to have called upon God to destroy him or that an evil had overtaken him. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who had just finished his prayer answered them: "Hasn't this man testified that there is no other divinity but God and that I am the Messenger of God?" - "That is what he said with his tongue, but which does not necessarily emanate from his inner self", they exclaimed. - "Whoever attests, continued the Prophet, that there is no other divinity e God and that I am his Messenger, will not enter Hell and will not be consumed by its flames". Number of the branches of faith and their superimposition in degrees. Modesty is part of it
50. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Faith has seventy-some branches including modesty (timidity curbing all blameworthy tendencies)".
52. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having one day heard a man preaching modesty to his co-religionist, he said: "Modesty is part of faith".
53. According to 'Imrân Ibn Husayn (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Modesty brings only good". The best deeds in Islam
56. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr (may God be pleased with him), a man who asked the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) what was the best Islam, he replied: "Give food and greet those whom you you know and those you don't know".
57. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr Ibn Al-'As (may God be pleased with him), a man asked the Prophet (peace be upon him): "Who is the best Muslim?" and the Prophet replied: "The one whose tongue and hand none of the Muslims need fear".
59. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), I asked the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) what was the best act of Islam, he replied: "It is that of the faithful whose Muslims need fear neither the hand nor the tongue". Qualities required in one who will find the sweetness of faith
60. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There are three qualities, whoever possesses them, will be able to savor the sweetness of faith: to devote a love exclusive to God and to his Messenger; if one loves someone else, that it will be only for the love of God; finally to fear the return to unbelief - a condition from which one has been saved by God - as one fears being thrown into Hell". The love of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) must supplant that of the parents, of the child, of the father and of everyone. Whoever does not love him to this degree will he be called an unbeliever or not?
62. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "No Worshiper - or according to the version of 'Abd Al-Wârith no man - will be a perfect Believer unless he has more affection for me than he has for his relatives, his possessions and for all the rest of the human race. It is one of the aspects of faith to love for one's co-religionist what one loves for oneself.
64. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "None of you will truly have faith unless he desires for his co-religionist (or for his neighbour) what he desires for himself". Incitement to honor the neighbor and the host, and to contain one's tongue unless it is for good. This is part of the faith
67. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Let him who believes in God and in the Day of Judgment speak only good or be silent. Let him who believed in God and the Doomsday treat his neighbors with respect. Let him who believed in God and the Doomsday give hospitality to his guest".
69. According to Abu Churayh Al-Khuzâ'î (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Let him who believed in God and in the Day of Judgment treat his neighbor with respect. Let him who believed in God and the Day of Judgment give hospitality to his guest. And let him who believed in God and the Day of Judgment speak only well or be silent." The prohibition of blameworthy acts is part of the faith. Faith increases or decreases. The order to do good and the prohibition of blame are two obligations
70. According to Abou Sa'îd Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him): Tariq Ibn Chihâb transmits that Marwan was the first to advance prayer to the day of the feast by the sermon. A man intervened at the moment and said to him: "The prayer must be done before the sermon (according to the practice of the Prophet)!". - "This is no more", replied Marwan. Abu Sa'id then said: This man has thus fulfilled his duty. I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "Whoever of you who witnesses any blameworthy action, let him intervene to change it with his hand; if not, with his tongue; if not, with his heart, and that is the weakest manifestation of faith". Superposition of the degrees of the Believers. The people of Yemen are the most devoted to the faith
72. Abu Mas'ud 'Uqba Ibn 'Amr (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), pointing with his hand in the direction of Yemen, said: "Faith lies there- down! But hardness and coarseness of heart are found in those who bawl while driving their camels, and who dwell where the two horns of the devil rise, among the tribes of Rabî'a and Mudar".
73. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: “You have been visited by the people of Yemen who have the most tender hearts. Faith, jurisprudence and wisdom are all Yemeni". Religion has good advice
83. Jarir Ibn 'Abdillah (may God be pleased with him) said: "I took an oath of obedience to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and I pledged myself to practice prayer, to pour legal alms (Az-Zakâ) and to advise all Muslims". Sins diminish faith: faith is imperfect when they are committed
86. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The fornicator does not remain a believer when he fornicates, the thief does not remain a believer when he steals, the drinker does not remain a believer when he consumes the alcohol". Distinguishing marks of the hypocrite
88. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr ( رضي الله عنهما ) reports that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There are four defects which when they taint someone, make him a perfect hypocrite. who has one, is affected by one of the characteristics of hypocrisy, unless he gets rid of it, namely: To speak untruthfully; to betray his oaths; to fail in his promises and to be in bad faith in course of disputes".
89. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Three faults characterize the hypocrite: To speak falsely; to fail in his promises and to deceive the confidences of other". The man who says to a Muslim: "O infidel!", is he a believer?
91. According to Abdullah Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: When a man accuses another of disbelief, one of them deserves this accusation (if the accuser is telling the truth, the disbelief of the other will therefore be attested, otherwise the one who has tainted his co-religionist with disbelief, will deserve it). Whoever knowingly denies his paternal filiation, is he a believer?
93. Abu Dharr (may God be pleased with him) heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: “Any man who knowingly claims to be descended from any father other than his will be (considered a) disbeliever. As for him who claims possession of what does not belong to him, he is not one of us and let him seek his place in Hell. enemy of God, this does not fail to turn against him".
94. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Do not disavow your fathers (out of contempt for your lineage). Whoever does so will be (considered a ) disbeliever".
95. Sa'd Ibn Abi Waqqas (may God be pleased with him) heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "Paradise will be forbidden to any Muslim who knowingly claims to be descended from a father other than the his". About the words of the Prophet: "To insult a Muslim is to do an act of impiety; to fight him is to do an act of perversity"
97. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The fact of insulting a Muslim is perversity; that of to fight it is disbelief". Interpretation of the words of the Prophet: "Beware, after my death, of acting as infidels by killing one another".
98. Jarir (may God be pleased with him) said: During the farewell Hajj, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered me to ask people to listen to him, then he addressed to them saying: "Beware, after my death, of denying your faith and killing one another". Disbelief of the one who says: "We received rain thanks to such a star"
104. Zayd Ibn Khâlid Al-Juhanî (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) guided us during the subh (morning) prayer at Al-Hudaybiya, at the following rain that had fallen during the night. When the Prophet had finished the prayer, he turned to the devotees and said, "Do you know what your Lord has said?" - "God and his Messenger are the most informed", they answered. - This morning, God said, replied the Prophet, there are among My worshipers who believed in Me and others who did not. Those who said: "We received the rain by the grace of God and His blessing" believed in Me and did not believe in the stars. But those who said that it was thanks to such and such a star (to which the Arabs attributed the fall of the rains before Islam), had not believed in Me and had believed in the stars. Loving the 'Ansar (Helps of the Prophet) is a sign of faith, and hating them is a mark of hypocrisy
108. Anas (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "To hate the 'Ansar is the sign of hypocrisy; to love the 'Ansar is the sign of faith".
110. Al-Barâ (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said about the 'Ansâr: "Only the Believer loves them and only the hypocrite hates them. God loves those who love them; and hate those who hate them". Decreasing acts of obedience diminishes faith. Use of the expressions: "disbelief in benefits (ingratitude)" and "disbelief in rights (lack of recognition)"
114. Abdullah Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "O women! Give alms and seek forgiveness more frequently from God, for I have seen you form the majority of the reprobate of Hell". A woman - among them having the judicious spirit - exclaimed: "And why that, O Messenger of God?". - "It is, he replied, that you multiply your curses and you are ungrateful towards your husbands. mind to a sensible man". - "In what, O Messenger of God, does the defect of our intelligence and of our religion consist?" - "The testimony of two women is equivalent to that of a man... So much for the lack of intelligence, replied the Prophet, and when they have their periods, do women not stop praying and fasting for lasting nights?... Well! So much for that of religion". Belief in God the Most High is the best act
118. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace be upon him) was asked what was the most meritorious work. "It is, he replied, faith in God". - "And what else?", they say to him. - "Jihad", he added. - "And then?", we asked again. - "A piously accomplished Hajj", he replied.
119. Abu Dharr (may God be pleased with him) said: I asked the Prophet (peace be upon him) what were the most meritorious works. “Faith in God, he replied, and jihad”. - "And which of the slaves is the one whose emancipation is the most meritorious?", I asked him. - "The one that cost the most, he replied, and to which his master is most attached". - "And if I am incapable of it?", I resumed. - "So, he replied, help someone to accomplish his work or work for the account of another who does not know how to do anything". - "And if I am incapable of it?". - "Then you will abstain from harming people and it will be a kind of alms from which you will benefit".
120. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: I asked the Prophet (peace be upon him) what was the most meritorious work. “Timely prayer,” he replied. - "And what else?", I resumed. - "Filial piety". - "And what else?". - "Jihad", he replied. Ibn Mas'ûd added: "I stopped asking him more questions for fear of embarrassing him". Polytheism is the most infamous sin. What sin ranks next?
124. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: I asked the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) what was the most serious sin in the sight of God and he replied: "It is that you give him a partner, because it is he who created you". - "Certainly, I resumed, this is serious. And what is the sin that comes second?". - "It is, he replied, to kill your child in fear of sharing your food". - "And what else?", I asked again. - "To fornicate with your neighbour's wife", he answered. Deadly sins and the most serious of them
126. According to Abu Bakra (may God be pleased with him), We were gathered at the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), when he said to us: "Well! Do you want me to informs about the most serious of the deadly sins?... There are three of them: polytheism, ingratitude towards one's parents and false witness -or following a variant: lying words-". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), who was leaning on his elbows, sat up and kept repeating these last words to the point that we said to ourselves: Ah! If it had ceased". (This repetition has, in fact, struck fear into the hearts of the faithful)
127. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said of the deadly sins: "These are: polytheism, ingratitude towards parents, murder and falsehood. testimony".
129. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Avoid the seven turpitudes!". - "What are they, O Messenger of God?" asked the faithful. - "These are, he replied, polytheism, magic; the murder which God has forbidden except with good reason; the usurpation of the property of the orphan; usury; flight from the front on the day of jihad and the false accusation (of fornication) of virtuous, chaste and believing women".
130. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr Ibn Al-'As ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Among the deadly sins is the fact that a man insult his parents". - "Does it happen, O Messenger of God, that a man insults his parents?", they exclaimed. - "Yes, it's when you insult the father of another who in turn responds by insulting the father of insulting him and when you insult the mother of someone who takes revenge by insulting that of the insulter" . Whoever dies without associating anything with God will enter Paradise, and whoever dies a polytheist will go to Hell
134. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), The Prophet said: "Will enter Hell whoever dies by invoking an associate besides God". And I ('Abdallâh) add: "And will enter Paradise whoever dies while devoting an exclusive worship to God".
137. From Abu Dharr (may God be pleased with him): The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Gabriel (peace be upon him) came to announce this good news to me: “ Whoever of your Community dies without associating anything with God, will enter Paradise". - "Even, I exclaimed, if he had committed fornication or theft?". - "Even if he had fornicated or stolen", he assured me. Prohibition against killing a polytheist after he testifies that there is no other god but God
139. According to Al-Miqdâd Ibn Al-'Aswad (may God be pleased with him) I said to the Messenger of God: "Can you imagine that I came up against a polytheist who, having fought me , would amputate my hand with his sword, then take refuge behind a tree where he would pronounce the profession of faith. Would I have the right to kill him or not (in revenge) after he had pronounced the profession of faith? . The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) answered me in the negative. - "But, I resumed, he cut off my hand, and it was only after that that he declared his conversion to Islam. Could I therefore kill him?". - "Do not kill him, repeated the Messenger of God, because if you kill him, he will be in the state where you were before executing him (Muslim), and you will be in the state where he was before to convert (unbeliever)".
140. Usâma Ibn Zayd ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sent us at the head of a squadron against the Al-Huraqât of the tribe of Juhayna. We surprised them in the morning and routed them. I caught one of the enemies who immediately exclaimed: "There is no other god but God!". Still, I killed him; but for all that I cannot remain with my conscience at peace. On our return (to Medina), I related this event to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who said to me: "Did he say that there was no god but God and you did you still kill?!". - "He only said it to avoid death!", I justified myself. - "Have you probed his heart to verify if he is sincere or not in this attestation?". The Prophet kept repeating this rebuke to the point that I wished that I would have embraced Islam only on this day (so that such a severe fault would not be inscribed in his liabilities as a Muslim). Sa'd commented (seeing Osama lined with bitter regrets): "I, by God! I will not judge that a man should be killed without Dhû Al-Bûtayn (he meant Osama who was a fat pot-bellied man) not finding him such ". Now a man exclaimed: Did not God say: {And fight them until there is no more association, and religion is entirely God's...! } And Sa'd adds: "Obviously we have fought so that there is no association; do you and your companions seek to fight so that there is association?" About the words of the Prophet: "He is not one of us who bears arms against us"
143. According to Abdoullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ): the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever directs a weapon against us is not one of us".
145. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who bears arms against us is not one of us". Prohibition of slapping the cheeks, tearing the necklines of dresses and uttering pre-Islamic words
148. Narrated 'Abdullâh ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "He is not one of us who slaps his cheeks, who tears the necklines of his clothes and who utters invocations of the pre-Islamic era (extravagant ways of expressing his melancholy following some misfortune)". Ban on the peddling of gossip
151. Hudhayfa (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: “Never will a bad tongue enter Paradise”. Prohibition of dragging the izâr, of reminding someone of the alms given to him and of selling off his merchandise by an oath, and the three categories of people whom God will not look at on the Day of Resurrection, who will not purify and who will suffer a painful punishment
157. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "There are three people to whom God will not speak on the Day of Resurrection. , nor will he look at them, nor purify them, and for which He has reserved a painful chastisement. The man, finding himself in the desert and having surplus water, refuses it to a traveler in distress. A second selling his goods to a another from whom he swears by God - after the hour of the 'asr - that he had bought it at such and such a price (in view of an increase in profit), thus taking the buyer for a dupe. who, taking an oath of fidelity to a sovereign, does so only with a view to temporal gain, and who remains faithful as long as it is given to him, otherwise he does not hold to his commitments at all. Prohibition of suicide, whoever kills himself by means of something, will be tortured in Hell. Only a Submissive (Muslim) soul will enter Paradise
158. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever commits suicide with a sharp edge will stab his stomach incessantly in the fire of the Gehenna, where he will dwell forever. Whoever poisons himself, will immediately absorb this poison in the fire of Gehenna, where he will dwell forever. Whoever kills himself by throwing himself from the top of a mountain, will quickly throw himself into the fire of Gehenna. where he will dwell forever.
159. According to Thâbit Ibn Ad-Dahhâk (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever deliberately swears by a religion other than Islam, will be judged according to the terms of his oath (i.e. as a Jew, a Christian or an idolater) Whoever kills himself by any means will be tortured on the Day of Resurrection. Man should never give away what he does not possess".
162. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: We were witnessing the battle of Hunayn alongside the Messenger of God who pointed to a so-called Muslim saying: "This is one of the damned of Hell". However, this man showed, in the fray, a great courage and received a serious wound. The Prophet is then told: "O Messenger of God! The man whom you said will be among the damned, fought gloriously today and succumbed". - "Succumbed to go to Hell!", retorted the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him). Some Muslims were on the point of doubting the words of the Prophet, when it was said: "The man is still alive, but he is seriously injured". But, at nightfall, unable to suffer his wound, the man committed suicide. When the news was told to the Prophet, he exclaimed: "God is the greatest! I testify that I am His worshiper and His messenger!". Then, he gave the order to Bilâl to go and shout among the Muslims: "He will only enter Paradise for truly submissive souls! And God strengthens this religion, (even) with the help of an impious man".
163. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd As-Sâ'idî (may God be pleased with him), After a fight against the polytheists, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) headed for his encampment, and the enemies did the same. There was under the banner of the Messenger of God a man who never ceased to pursue any isolated member of the enemy troop with a view to executing him with his sword. One then says: "Certainly, so-and-so has surpassed us today in merit (because of his bravery)". - "However, this man will go to Hell", said the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "Me, cried one of the faithful, I will follow this man closely". And to tell the truth, he was able to follow in the footsteps of this man, until the latter, being seriously injured; hastened to end his suffering and thrust his saber into the ground so that its point was directed within his chest, and locked himself. And so he found death. The other man returned to the Messenger of God and said, "I testify that you are the Messenger of God." - "Why are you saying it now?" asked the Prophet. - "The man of whom you said just now that he will be among the damned of Hell, replied the man; which aroused the astonishment of the faithful, and so I decided to follow him. (to discover his secret.) So I pursued him until he had received a serious wound. breast of his breast and he thus breathed his last. At that moment, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) commented saying: "It may be that a man apparently follows the conduct of the people of Paradise , but verily he shall be among the damned of Hell; and that another apparently follows the conduct of the people of Hell, while he will be among the blessed in Paradise".
164. According to Jundab (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: There was, among those who preceded you, a man who had an inflammatory tumor. Unable to bear the pain, he drew an arrow from his quiver and pierced his tumor. The bloodshed did not cease then and he died of it. God says about him: "I have deprived him of Paradise". Loot stealing prohibited. Only believers will enter Paradise
166. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: We went out with the Prophet (peace be upon him) to conquer Khaybar and God granted us victory. However, our booty was neither gold nor silver, but above all objects, food and clothing. We then took the direction of Wâdî Al-Qurâ with the Messenger of God. This one (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was accompanied by a slave given to him by Rifâ'a Ibn Zayd, originally from the Judhâm of the Banû Ad-Dubayb tribe. At Wâdî Al-Qurâ, this slave was hit by an arrow while he was removing the saddle of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). The faithful then exclaimed: "Happy man! He is a martyr, O Messenger of God!" - "Not at all, answered the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him). I swear by Him who holds the soul of Muhammad in His power, certainly the cape that he stole from the spoils on the day of Khaybar -before the division- will consume his body!". At these words, the faithful were shocked. A man then came to the Prophet, holding in his hand one or two straps of sandals. “O Messenger of God! Here, said this man, is what I stole on the day of the capture of Khaybar”. - "It is a belt of fire (or it is two belts of fire)", said the Prophet. The believer's fear of losing the fruits of his works
170. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: After the revelation of this verse: O you who believed! Do not raise your voices above the voice of the Prophet,... Thâbit Ibn Qays retired to his house and said: "Ah! I shall be among the damned!" He refrained from going to see the Prophet (peace be upon him). Realizing his absence, the Messenger of God inquired about him from Sa'd Ibn Mu'âdh, saying: "O Abu 'Amr! Is Thâbit sick?". - "He is my neighbour, replied Sa'd, and I have not heard that he is suffering". Sa'd immediately went to his neighbor and informed him of what the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) had said. Thâbit expressed himself thus: "Do you not see that I am referred to by this verse because it is my voice which most often rises above that of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)? I I shall therefore be one of the damned!". Sa'd returned to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and told him what Thâbit had said. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "No, he will be among the blessed in Paradise". Will the Believer be punished for what he had done in pre-Islamic times
171. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), Some people addressed the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) saying: "O Messenger of God! punish us for what we did in the time of idolatry?" - "He, he replied, who does good after his conversion to Islam, will not be punished. But he who sins (after his conversion to Islam), his faults committed before and after Islam will all be punished." Islam, emigration and Hajj cancel the sins that preceded them
174. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), Polytheists who had committed many murders and many adulteries, came to Muhammad (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "What you tell us and what you invite us to do is good; but please tell us how to redeem our faults". It was then that this verse was revealed: Who do not call on another god with God and do not kill the life which God has made sacred, except with good reason; and who do not commit fornication - for whoever does this will incur punishment and this verse: O My servants who have committed excesses to your own detriment do not despair of the mercy of God... Judgment passed on the works of the polytheist before that he converts to Islam
175. According to Hakîm Ibn Hizâm (may God be pleased with him) I asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "What do you think of certain devotions that I practiced at the time polytheism? Will I be rewarded for it? - "By adopting Islam, replied the Prophet, you keep to your credit all the good that you have done previously". Sincerity and Fidelity of Faith
178. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may Allah be pleased with him) said: "When the following verse was revealed: {Those who believed and did not disturb the purity of their faith by any iniquity (association).. .} the companions of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) were grieved and said: "Who is there among us who does not have some injustice to reproach himself with? The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) blessing of God upon him) answered them: “It is not a question of what you believe; but rather of what Luqmân had thought of when he said to his son: {O my son, do not associate with God, for association (with God) is truly an enormous injustice.}"". God leaves the (evil) thoughts and cares of the heart unpunished until they are rooted in the mind.
181. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "God will excuse the faithful of my Community for the evil that their souls have caused them, as long as it is will not be translated into words or deeds". If the Servant intends to do a good deed, it will be credited to him, and when he intends to do a bad one, it will not be written.
183. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) transmitted these words from his Lord, the Exalted: "When one of My worshipers wants commit a bad deed, do not write it down as a liability until he has done it; if he does it, add a single bad deed to his liability. On the other hand, if he wants to do a good deed, and even if he does not do it, add to his credit one good deed; but if he does it, add to him ten good deeds".
187. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), transmitting these words from his Lord, the Exalted, said: "God wrote the good and the bad deeds" . Then, he (peace and blessings of God be upon him) clarified this by saying: "Whoever forms the intention to do a good deed, even if he does not carry it out, God will write down to him his full reward; and if he puts it into execution, God - may His omnipotence and His glory be exalted - will write to his credit a reward equivalent to ten good deeds, which could increase to the equivalent of seven hundred and even several pious works. On the other hand, whoever intends to do a bad deed but does not carry it out, God will write down for him the full reward of a good deed; and if he carries it out, God will write down for him the punishment of 'one bad deed. Scruples in matters of faith and what to say at this time
190. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: People will not stop questioning each other until they come to ask this question: "This is that God created the whole universe; who then is the creator of God? In case you come up against this question, invoke divine protection by saying: "I have faith in God!".
195. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) transmitted these words from God, the Exalted, who said: The men of your Community will keep asking: "Who created this? And who created this?" To the point that they will come to say: "It is God who created the universe; but who therefore created God?". He who seizes the right of a Muslim by a false oath, will be one of the reprobate of Hell
197. Narrated 'Abdullâh ibn Mas'ud (may God be pleased with him) that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever deliberately takes a false oath for the purpose of 'appropriating the property of a Muslim man, will find God angry with him on the Day he meets Him'. Proof that the life of someone who unjustly seizes the property of others is not inviolable. If he is killed, he will be in Hell. He who is killed defending his property is a martyr
202. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "He who succumbs while defending his property is a martyr". Hell will be the retribution of the governor who deceives his subjects
203. Ma'qil Ibn Yasar (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Prophet (peace be upon him) say: "Any worshiper whom God entrusts authority over Muslims and who dies after deceiving them, God will deprive him of Paradise". The disappearance of the Responsibility of certain hearts and the trials that we must undergo
206. Hudhayfa (may God be pleased with him) said: the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) told us two stories that I saw one and I expect the other. He tells us: "Honesty (to do good and to avoid evil) was deposited in the depths of men's hearts; then, they knew of its existence thanks to the Koran and the Sunna". Then he explained to us how this Honesty will disappear, in these terms: "Honesty will be removed from the heart of man, while he sleeps, so that only the trace of it will remain. Then, while he is still asleep, his remnant will be removed, of which only a trace will remain, like a blister—comparable to the vesicle produced by burning coal when it rolls over the leg which is covered. then pustules that you see swollen with air". He then took a pebble and rolled it over his leg, then continued: In the morrow people will wake up and go about their business (business) and hardly anyone will apply Honesty to it; to the point of being able to say: "There is among the Banû such and such a man worthy of trust!"; and to judge of a man, saying: "How tough he is! How lovable! How reasonable!"; and yet this man will not have the weight of a mustard seed of faith in his heart. There came to me a time when I did not care to know with whom I contract acts of commerce: if he is a Muslim, he will be retained by Islam; if he is a Christian or a Jew, he will be retained by his chief. But, today I only make contracts with so and so among you". Islam, born "foreign", will become "foreign" again and will concentrate in Medina.
207. Hudhayfa (may God be pleased with him) said: One day when we were at 'Umar (may God be pleased with him), he asked us: "Which among you has heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God about him) talk about trials?". Some answered: "We heard it". - "It may be, he replied, that you mean the test of the man in his family and his neighbor". They replied in the affirmative. "Sins arising from such hardships can be expiated by prayer, fasting and almsgiving. But who among you has heard the Prophet (peace be upon him) speak of hardships (many and widespread ) which move like the waves of the sea?". Houdhayfa continued: The men were silent, while I answered him: "I (heard it)". - "You?; said 'Omar, may God keep your father!". Hudhayfa then said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "Disturbing trials will be exposed to the hearts (of the believers) and goods will mark like the traces left by the rushes of the mat on the side of the sleeper. Every heart that is passionately in love with them will be marked with a black dot, and every heart that rejects them will be marked with a white dot. So that in these trials, two hearts will face: the first white-pointed will be like the rock (steadfast and smooth), so no hardship will ever harm it as long as the heavens and the earth last, while the other black-pointed will turn almost grayish and be like an upside-down jug , unable to distinguish right from wrong so long as neither corresponds to his own desires".
210. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Faith will take refuge in Medina as the snake takes refuge in its hole". Silence your faith in case of fear
213. According to Hudhayfa (may God be pleased with him), While we were with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he said to us: "Tell me all those who profess Islam". We answered then: "What do you regret for us, whereas we count from six to seven hundred faithful?". - "You don't know! You may be tested". Houdhayfa added, "And indeed, we have gone through troubling trials to the point that the devotee only prays quietly." Encouragement to win the hearts of uncertain faith and prohibition to judge the degree of anyone's faith without decisive proof
214. Sa'd (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was sharing, when I addressed him saying: "O Messenger of God! Give to so and so, for he is a Believer". - "He's more of a Muslim!" replied the Prophet (peace be upon him). To my request repeated three times, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) gave the same answer; then, he added: "Sometimes, I give to a man, whereas I prefer to give to another, in fear that God does not precipitate that one in the fire of Hell". (NB: The sincere believer does not covet anything; but he is above all a neophyte whose faith is not yet stable, who deserves material help to gradually grow his faith) Proofs reassure the heart
216. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: We have more rights than Abraham ('Ibrahim) (peace and blessings of God upon him) to doubt as he did saying, "Lord! Show me how You raise the dead", God (the Most High) said, "Do you not believe yet?" - "Yes! said Abraham ('Ibrâhim); but let my heart be reassured..." May God have mercy on Lot because (in adversity) he sought refuge with a solid support (God). And if I had stayed in prison as long as Joseph (Yûsuf), I would have accepted (in a hurry) the release (Joseph had demanded a certain investigation to prove his innocence before leaving prison). Obligation to believe in the of our Prophet intended for everyone, and abrogation of all religions by one
217. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: All the Prophets were endowed with (almost miraculous) similar proofs capable of making people believers. As for me, I received Revelation from God. So I hoped to be followed by the greatest number (of believers) on the Day of Resurrection.
219. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There are three people who will have a double reward: a man of the People of the Book who - having believed in his Prophet and survived until the advent of Muhammad - sincerely believed in him and followed him; a slave who discharges his duties towards God and towards his master, finally a man who, owning a slave, feeds her well, gives her a good education, then frees her and marries her". Descent of Jesus, son of Mary, applying the religion of our Prophet Muhammad
220. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "I swear by Him who holds my soul in His power, far from soon enough the son of Mary (peace be upon him) will come down to judge you fairly. He will break the crucifix, kill the pigs, make the poll tax disappear. Then wealth will overflow until no one will want it anymore. to receive". The time when repentance will not profit
226. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: The Hour will not come before the sun has risen from the setting sun. At that time, all people will have faith; but, {Faith in Him shall not profit any soul which had not believed before or had gained no merit from its belief...}
228. According to Abu Dharr (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) once said: "Do you know where the sun goes (at sunset)?". - "God and His Messenger know best", we replied. - "Well!, he resumed, he continued his course until he reached his lodging under the divine Throne; then prostrated himself and remained thus until he was told: "Return to the place from which you came. 'have risen'. The sun obeyed and the next day it rose from the east (as usual). And so on. "Arise from the setting sun. And he will obey. Do you know when that will happen? That is when faith in Him will not benefit any soul who has not believed before or who does not had acquired no merit from his belief...} Beginning of the Revelation to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)
231. 'Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (raa) said: Revelation first came to the Prophet (peace be upon him) in the form of pious visions which he saw during his sleep. They all appeared to him with very vivid clarity. Then he had an inclination to retreat. He then retired to the cave of Hirâ', where he engaged in the practice of acts of adoration during consecutive nights, before he returned home to provide himself with food. He then returned to Khadija and took the necessary provisions for a new retreat. This lasted until the Truth was finally revealed to him in the cave of Hirâ'. The archangel then came to say to him: "Read!". - "I am not one of those who read", he answered. The Prophet recounted this event in these terms: The archangel seized me immediately, pressed me against him to the point of making me lose all my strength, then finally released me, repeating: "Read!". - "I am not one of those who read", I replied again. This scene repeated itself twice more. At the third time, the archangel said to me: {Read, in the name of your Lord who created, who created man from an adhesion. Lily! Your Lord is the Most Noble, who taught by the pen (the pen), taught man what he did not know}. After hearing these verses, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), trembling and quivering, returned to his wife Khadija and cried: "Wrap me! Wrap me!" They hastened to cover him until his fear was dissipated. So, speaking to Khadîja, he informed her of what had happened, then he added: "Ah! I thought I was going to die!". - "On the contrary, rejoice!, answered Khadija, certainly God will never plunge you into ignominy; for you maintain your family ties, you speak only the truth, you support the weak, you give to the needy, you give shelter to the guests, and you come to the aid of the tried". Then Khadîja took Muhammad to Waraqa Ibn Nawfal Ibn 'Asad Ibn 'Abd Al-'Uzzâ This man, who was Khadîja's paternal cousin, had embraced Christianity in pre-Islamic times. He knew Arabic in writing, and had translated into Arabic passages of the Gospel as much as God had wanted. At that time, he was old and had become blind: "O my cousin, said Khadîja to him, listen to what your brother's son is going to tell you". - "O son of my brother!, answered Waraqa Ibn Nawfal, what is it about?". The Prophet (peace be upon him) then told him what he had seen. "He is the archangel, said Waraqa Ibn Nawfal, whom God sent formerly to Moses (Mûsa) (peace and blessings of God be upon him). Would to God that I were young at this time! Ah! How I would like to be still alive at the time when your fellow citizens will banish you!". - "So they will exile me?" exclaimed the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "Yes, continued Waraqa Never has a man brought what you bring without being persecuted! If I still live in that day, I will help you with all my strength".
232. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdillâh Al-'Ansârî ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having spoken of the interruption of the Revelation, said: "While I was walking, I heard a voice coming from the sky. Then raising my eyes, I saw the Archangel who had come to find me in Hirâ'; he was seated on a seat between heaven and earth". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) continued: "Frightened at the sight of him, I returned home crying: 'Wrap me up! Wrap me!". And I was clothed with a cloak. It was on this occasion that God - to Him the power and the glory - revealed these verses: {O, you (Muhammad)! Rise up and warn. And of your Lord, praise the greatness. And your garments purify them. And from all sin, depart} - by (all sin) is meant (idols). Revelation followed in a row: Night Journey of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and prescription of the Sala
234. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Al-Burâq" - a white mount, bigger than a donkey and smaller than a mule, who was suddenly where her gaze stopped, was brought to me. I mounted it and was transported to Jerusalem. There, I attached it to the ring intended for the use of the Prophets. I entered the mosque where I prayed two rak'ahs. When I left, Gabriel (peace be upon him) offered me two containers: one containing wine, the other milk. I choose the milk; and Gabriel then declared to me that I had chosen the primordial way. Carried by him, I rose to the celestial regions. Gabriel asked permission to access it. - "Who is it?", one asked. - "It's Gabriel", he answered. - "And who accompanies you?". - "It's Muhammad". - "Has he then received the Mission?". - "Yes". We were opened and I immediately saw Adam who welcomed me and invoked (God) on my behalf. Then, I was carried to the second heaven, Gabriel (peace be upon him) asked that we be opened. - "Who is it?", one asked. - "It's Gabriel", he answered. - "And who accompanies you?". - "It's Muhammad". - "Has he then received the Mission?". - "Yes". We were opened and I immediately saw the two maternal cousins: Jesus ('Isa), the son of Mary and John the Baptist, son of Zacharias (may God grant them His blessings) who wished me welcome and well. Then I was taken to the third heaven, and Gabriel also asked permission to enter it. - "Who is it?", one asked. - "It's Gabriel", he replied. - "And who accompanies you?". - "It's Muhammad". - "Has he then received the Mission?". - "Yes". We were opened and I immediately found Joseph (Yûsuf) (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to whom half of human beauty has been assigned. He wished me welcome and well. I was then carried to the fourth heaven and Gabriel (peace be upon him) asked to be opened to us. - "Who is it?", one asked. - "It's Gabriel", he replied. - "And who accompanies you?". - "It's Muhammad". - "Has he then received the Mission?". - "Yes". We were opened and I found Anoch ('Idris) who bade me welcome and well. God - to Him the power and the glory - said about it: {And We raised him to a high station}. I was then carried to the fifth heaven and Gabriel asked to be opened to us. - "Who is it?", one asked. - "It's Gabriel", he answered. - "And who accompanies you?". - "It's Muhammad". - "Has he then received the Mission?". - "Yes". We were opened and I found Aaron (Hârûn) (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who wished me welcome and well. I was then carried to the sixth heaven and Gabriel (peace be upon him) asked to be opened to us. - "Who is it?", one asked. - "It's Gabriel", he answered. - "And who accompanies you?". - "It's Muhammad". - "Has he then received the Mission?". - "Yes". We were opened and I found Moses (Mûsa) (peace and blessings of God on him) who wished me welcome and good. I was finally taken to seventh heaven and Gabriel (peace be upon him) asked to be opened. - "Who is it?", one asked. - "It's Gabriel", he answered. - "And who accompanies you?". - "It's Muhammad". - "Has he then received the Mission?". - "Yes". They opened the door to us and I found Abraham ('Ibrahim) (peace and blessings of God be upon him), his back leaning against the Populated House into which a new group of seventy thousand angels enter daily. Then, he took me to "Sidrat al-Muntaha" (the Lotus of the extreme limit) whose leaves resembled the ears of elephants and the fruits were (large) like jugs. The moment that -by God's command- the lotus was covered with what covered it, it was transformed and none of God's creatures could describe its splendor. God revealed to me, then, what He willed, and prescribed the performance of fifty prayers a day. I went back to see Moses (Mûsa) who asked me: "What did the Lord prescribe to your Community?". - "About fifty prayers", I told him. - "Return to your Lord and ask Him to reduce this number, because your Community will not support this prescription. I know the Israelites well; I had put them to the test and I had worked to bring them back to the right way". The Prophet continued: I returned to my Lord and asked Him to reduce the number of prayers for the favor of my Community. He answered me by diminishing them with five prayers. I then went to find Moses (Mûsa) to inform him of the reduction of the five prayers. However, he repeated to me: "Return to your Lord and ask Him to reduce this number, because your Community will not bear it". I then kept shuttling between my Lord (to Him the power and the glory) and Moses (Mûsa) (peace be upon him) to ask for even more reduction until God decreed to me: "O "Muhammad! I irrevocably prescribe five prayers day and night, each of which is equal to ten, then that makes fifty. Whoever intends to do a good deed and does not do it, a reward will be written down for him; if he performs, a reward equivalent to ten good deeds will be recorded for him. Whereas anyone who intends to perpetrate an evil deed and does not perform it, nothing will be recorded as a liability; if on the contrary he performs it , the punishment of a single bad deed will be written down on him". I went back down and came to Moses (peace be upon him) to inform him of the thing, but he said to me: "Return to your Lord and ask Him for a new reduction". "I have already returned several times to my Lord, until I found it improper to make this request to Him again." I replied to Musa.
238. According to Mâlik Ibn Sa'sa'a (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: While I was near the Sacred House (the Ka'ba) in an intermediate state between waking and sleeping, I heard someone call: "The man standing between the other two!". (there were, according to the commentators, two men next to the Prophet). I answered it. I was taken away and then offered to me a golden basin filled with Zamzam water. They split my chest from here to there. Another transmitter, Qatâda, inquires: "And what did he hear by (from here to there)?". - "To the lower abdomen", replied Anas. - They will extract my heart, said the Prophet, and after having washed it with Zamzam water, they put it back in its place, stuffing it with faith and wisdom. Then, "Al-Burâq" was brought to me -a white mount, bigger than a donkey and smaller than a mule, who jumped where his gaze stopped-; on which I was made to climb. Then, I went away with Gabriel, until reaching the nearest sky where he asked that we be opened. - "Who is it?", one asked. - "It's Gabriel", he replied. - "And who accompanies you?". - "It's Muhammad". - "Has he then received the Mission?". - "Yes". So we were let in, saying: "Welcome he is! What a happy arrival his is!". I then found Adam (peace be upon him) there". ) and John the Baptist (Yahiya) (peace be upon them both); to the third, Joseph (Yûsuf); to the fourth, Anoch ('Idris); and to the fifth, Aaron (Hârûn) (may the blessing of God be them all). - We finally reached the sixth heaven, continued the Prophet, there I saw Moses (Musa) (peace be upon him) whom I greeted. And he answered me: "Welcome, brother virtuous and virtuous Prophet!". No sooner had I passed him than he began to cry. "Why are you crying?", he was asked. - "O Lord, he replied, this young man , you sent it after me; and yet a multitude of his Community will go to Paradise, while those who will reach it among my Community will be less numerous". Then, we ascended to the seventh heaven where I saw Abraham ('Ibrâhim). However, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him) related that he had seen four rivers: two apparent and two others underground. "O Gabriel! What are these rivers?" he asked. The Archangel answered: "The two underground rivers are from Paradise; as for the other two, they are the Nile and the Euphrates". The Prophet continued his story: Then, I was shown the Populated House in its place, about which I asked Gabriel who said to me: "It is the Populated House where every day, seventy thousand angels make the prayer for once in their life". Then two vessels were brought to me: one containing wine and the other milk. I chose this one. "You there you are! May God bless you for the favor of your Community! You have opted for the primordial way", noted Gabriel. Also, I was prescribed to perform fifty prayers a day..." And the Prophet related what had happened on this subject.
239. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) referring to his Night Journey, said: "Moses (Mûsa) was dark and tall; he looked like a man of the Chanû'a tribe. As for Jesus ('Isa), he was of a fleshy body and of medium height". The Prophet also mentioned Malik, the guardian of Hell and the Antichrist.
241. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), as the Prophet (peace be upon him) passed through the valley of Al-'Azraq, he asked: "What is this valley?". - He was answered: "It is the valley of Al-'Azraq". The Prophet then said: "I seem to see Moses (Mûsa) (peace be upon him) coming down from the top of the crease while doing the Talbiya aloud". Then, having passed through the folding of Harchâ, he asked: "What is this folding?". - "It is the folding of Harchâ", one answered him. The Prophet then said: "I seem to see Jonas (Yûnus) son of Amittaï (peace be upon him), dressed in a woolen tunic and straddling a big red camel whose bridle is made of fiber, trying to do the Talbiya".
245. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: During my Night Journey, I met Moses (Musa) (peace be upon him). He was a feverish man, with neither very smooth nor very bristling hair, who looked like a man from the Chanû'a tribe. I also met Jesus ('Isa); he was a man of average height, ruddy like the man who has just come out of the bath. I also saw Abraham ('Ibrâhim) (peace be upon him), of his descendants it is I who resemble him the most. Then I was offered two containers: one containing wine and the other milk. “Drink whichever of the two you want,” I am told. I took the milk and the bus. "You have chosen the primordial way, he added; if you had taken the wine, your Community would have been lost". Mention of Jesus, son of Mary, and the Antichrist
246. According to Abdoullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: One night, I saw myself (in a dream) near the Ka'ba where I saw a dark-haired man, the prettiest dark-haired man you could see; he had the finest hair falling behind his ears; they were still dripping with water as if he had just combed them; he was supported on two men or, -according to a variant-, lifted on the shoulders of two men and thus made the Tawâf (the ritual rounds around the House). I asked who he was, and I was told: "He is the Messiah, son of Mary". I then saw a working man with frizzy hair; he was blind in his right eye; this one looked like a protruding grape. I asked who was he; and I was answered: "It is the Antichrist".
251. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: I saw myself (in a dream) within the enclosure of the Ka'ba (the Hijr) , while the Quraysh questioned me about my Night Journey. They then questioned me about details concerning the Temple of Jerusalem that I had not retained; which caused me an affliction which was hitherto unknown to me. The Prophet added: "God then made the monument appear in my sight, and so I could answer all their questions". I then saw myself among a group of Prophets including Moses (Musa) who was praying. Then, I saw a tall man, one would have said of the Chanû'a tribe, it was, in fact, Jesus the son of Mary (peace be upon him), saying the prayer; of all men it is 'Urwa Ibn Mas'ûd Ath-Thaqafi who most resembles him. I then saw Abraham ('Ibrâhim) (peace be upon him) standing, praying; your friend is the most like him (he was referring to himself). The hour of prayer having come, I presided over the Prophets. Once having finished it, I was told: "O Muhammad! Here is Mâlik the guardian of Hell, salute him". As I turned to him, he greeted me first. Interpretation of these words of God: "He saw him, however, during another descent". Did the Prophet see his Lord on the night of Ascension?
259. Masrouq said: One day when I was leaning on 'Aisha, she said to me: "O Abu 'Aisha! Three things, whoever claims one of them will have forged a big lie about God". I said, "Which ones?" - "Whoever claims that Muhammad, (peace and blessings be upon him) has seen his Lord, will have forged a great lie about God". Leaning on my elbows, Masrouq added, I sat up and said: "O Mother of Believers! Give me time (to understand) and do not hurry me: God, the Exalted, has not - He didn't say: {He actually saw it, on the clear horizon, and yet He saw it, during another descent} - Among the people of this Community, she answered, I was the first to ask this question to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who then answered me: "It is about Gabriel whom I have seen in his original form only twice: once when I saw him descend from the sky covering with his great stature all that is between heaven and earth". Then, 'Aisha added: Have you not heard this verse which God revealed to His Prophet: {Looks cannot reach him, yet He catches all looks. And he is the Meek, the All-knowing}. Have you not heard this verse either: {It was not given to a mortal whom God speaks to him otherwise than by revelation, or from behind a veil, or that He (him) sends a messenger (Angel) who reveals, by His permission, what He (God) wills. He is Sublime and Wise.} 'Aisha continued: Whoever presumes that the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) had hidden anything from the Book of God would have fabricated a great lie about God. God indeed says: {O Messenger, convey what has been sent down to you from your Lord. If you did not, then you would not have imparted His }... Moreover, one who presumes that the Prophet foresees the future, will have forged a great lie about God; God (the Most High) said: {Say: None of those in the heavens and on the earth knows the Unknowable except God}. (Muslim n°259) These sayings of the Prophet: "God does not sleep. His veil is the light, if He removes it, the splendor of His mine will burn all that His vision will reach"
263. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: One day the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) arose among us and reported five things, he said: God, the Exalted, does not sleep not and it is not fitting for Him to sleep. He lowers the Libra and raises it. He takes cognizance of the nocturnal deeds (performed by His creatures) before day breaks, and of the diurnal deeds before night falls. Light, or according to Abu Bakr "fire", is His veil; if He removes it, the splendor of His countenance will certainly burn any of His creatures who may have seen it. Affirmation that believers will see their Lord Most High in the future life
265. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: There will be two gardens whose vases and all that exists in them will be of silver, and two other gardens whose vases and everything in them will be of gold. In the Garden of Eden, nothing will be interposed between the blessed and the sight of the Lord, except the veil of greatness over His face.
267. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), people once asked the Prophet (peace be upon him) if they would see the Lord on the Day of Resurrection. And the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "Do you find it difficult to see the moon when it is full?". - "No, O Messenger of God" - "Do you find it hard to see the sun when no cloud hides it?". - "No, O Messenger of God!". - Well, he resumed, in the same way you will see the Lord. On the Day of Resurrection, God will gather the people together and say to them: "Let everyone follow what he worshipped!". Those who worshiped the sun will follow him; those who worshiped the moon will follow her; and those who worshiped the taghût (all false divinity), will follow them. Everyone will therefore go away, except this Community, including its hypocrites. Then God (may be exalted His almightiness and greatness) will incarnate to her in a form which she does not know and will say to them: "I am your Lord". - "We take refuge against you with God, they will say, we will stay here until our Lord comes, and then we will recognize Him". God (may be exalted His almightiness and greatness) will then come to them in the form they know and will say to them: "I am your Lord". - "Surely, You are our Lord", they will answer; and they will follow Him. At that time, the Sirat (a bridge as thin as a thread) will be established between the two extremities of Hell. My Community and I will be the first to cross it. On that day, no one will speak except the Prophets who will implore God in these terms: "O Lord! Save us, save us!". In Hell, there will be hooks like the thorns of the Sa'dân (thorny plant), have you seen the Sa'dân? - Certainly yes, O Messenger of God. - These grappling hooks will therefore look like the thorns of Sa'dân but no one - except God - knows their size. They will seize the people according to their actions: the believers will escape there while the culprits will remain there until the expiation of their faults. Then, when God completes the judgment of His servants, and He wants to bring out by His mercy and according to His will some of the reprobate of Hell, He will order the angels to bring out of the Fire, whoever does not associate Him with Him. nothing among those to whom He would give His mercy because they testified that there was no deity but God. The angels will recognize them by the traces of prostration (marked on their foreheads), because the Fire will devour the body of the son of Adam entirely, except for this part, because God has forbidden him to do so. They will therefore come out of Hell consumed by Fire; but thanks to the water of life that will be poured on them, they will be reborn as the purslane is reborn in the silt of the flood. When God will finish settling the accounts of men and there will remain only one man, with his face turned towards the Fire. This one will enter Paradise the last. He will exclaim: "Lord! Turn my face away from Hell whose breath suffocates me and the flames burn me!". Man will implore God as much as He inspires him. - "But, He will say to him then, if I grant your wish, will you ask Me for another one?". - "No, I will not ask you for anything else", the man will say, making many promises and making many commitments vis-à-vis God who will then turn his face away from Hell. But when he arrives at the threshold of Paradise and sees it, man will remain silent as long as God wills and will end up saying: "Lord! Bring me near the door of Paradise". - "Have you not taken, God will reply, the formal commitment never to ask Me anything again after what I have already given you. Woe to you, O son of Adam! How perfidious you are!" . - "If Lord", will say the man who will continue to invoke and implore God until He says to him: "Do you promise me not to ask Me anything if I grant your wish?". Man will promise Him and confirm his promise by as many formal commitments as God wills. Then, God will approach him to the gate of Paradise, which will then open before him. Seeing the goods and felicities it contains, he will first keep silence as long as God wills, then cry out: "Lord! Let me enter Paradise". - "Did you not make a formal commitment not to ask Me anything more. Woe to you, O son of Adam! How treacherous you are!". "O Lord! Don't let me be the most unhappy of Your creatures", will say the man who will continue his implorations until God laughs (may His almightiness and His greatness be exalted). God will then make him enter Paradise and will then say to him: "Ask what you desire". Man will not stop asking and formulating his desires, God, likewise, will remind him of forgotten wishes, until man has no wishes to express and it will be then that God will say to him: " It's all yours and so much more."
269. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him): As people asked the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "O Messenger of God! Will we see the Lord on the Day of the resurrection?". He answered them: "Yes, do you find it difficult to see the sun when it is at its zenith in clear and serene weather and do you find it difficult to see the full moon when it is clear and serene?". - "No, O Messenger of God", they answered. - Well, you won't have any trouble seeing the Lord on that day either, just as you don't have any trouble seeing one of these two stars. On that day, a herald will come to shout: "Let each community follow what it adored". Thus those who associate another divinity with God by worshiping fetishes or standing stones, will all be thrown into the Fire. There will remain only those who worshiped God, pious or perverse, and the remnant of the People of the Book (who followed the non-interpolated religion revealed to their Prophets). We will say to the Jews: "What did you worship?". - "We adored, they will answer, 'Uzayr, the son of God". - "You are lying, we will answer, God has neither companion nor child. What do you want?". - "We are thirsty, O Lord. Give us to drink", they will answer. - "Well, drink", they will be told. And then they will be hurled in a row into Hell, which will spread out before them like a mirage. We will then address the Christians and we will say to them: "What did you worship?" - "We adored, they will answer, the Messiah, son of God". - "You are lying, they will be answered, God has neither companion nor child. What do you want?". - "We are thirsty, O Lord. Give us to drink", they will answer. - "Well drink", they will be told. And then they will be hurled in a row into Hell, which will spread out before them like a mirage. It will be so until there will remain only those who worshiped God, whether pious or perverse. The Almighty will then incarnate to them in a lower form than that in which He had shown Himself to them before and will say to them, "What are you waiting for, as each community has joined what it worshiped ". They will answer: "O Lord! We have parted from them although we have great need to cling to them". He will say to them: "I am your Lord". - "We take refuge against you with God. We associate nothing with God", they will repeat two or three times. Some of them will be tempted, and then they'll say, "Have you got any sign that you can know Him by?" - "Yes", they will answer. They will then be exposed to great horror and all who bow down to God willingly will be allowed to bow down while those who bow down to God out of fear (of people) or ostentation; when they want to prostrate, their backs will remain stiff and they will fall backwards each time they try to prostrate. Then they will all raise their heads and see God returning to His form that they saw the first time. He will then say to them: "I am your Lord". And they answer: "Yes, certainly, You are our Lord!". At that moment, the bridge will be suspended between the two extremities of Hell, intercession will be permitted and people will hear God's salvation implored. They asked him, adds the transmitter: "O Messenger of God! What will this bridge be?". - "It will be, he replied, a quagmire where one risks slipping, bristling with harpoons, grappling hooks and thorns like those found in Nejd, which is called Sa'dân. The Believers will pass over this bridge (gradually) with the swiftness of the blink of an eye, lightning, wind, birds, swift horses and other herds, some will escape unharmed, others will escape scratched , and others finally will be thrown into the fire of Hell. And this will last until the believers are delivered from Hell. Well! By Him who holds my soul in His power! None among you 'imagine how the (saved) Believers will go to great lengths pleading with the Almighty to save others who could not have escaped the Fire. , prayed and performed the Hajj like us". - "Bring out those you know", God will say to them. Their faces will not be affected by the and fire. Some of them will be burned up to their mid-legs and others up to their knees. The believers will then say, "O Lord! There is none left among what You commanded us to bring out." - "Go back there and bring out whoever has the weight of a dinar of good in his heart", will say God. So they'll bring out a lot of the damned, then say, "O Lord, there's none left of what You commanded us to bring out." - "Go back there and bring out whoever has in his heart the weight of half a dinar of good", will say God. So they'll bring out a lot of the damned, then say, "O Lord, there's none left of what You commanded us to bring out." - "Go back and bring out anyone with an atom's weight of good in their hearts", God will say. So they will bring out many of the damned, then say, "O Lord! We find no good there." Abou Sa'îd Al-Khoudri added: "If you do not believe me, refer to these words of the Koran: {Certainly, God does not harm (anyone), even by the weight of an atom. If it is a good deed, He doubles it, and grants a great reward from Him.} God, the Exalted, continued the Prophet, will then say: "The Prophets, the angels and the Believers have interceded and it is now the turn of the Most Merciful of the merciful". God will then take a handful (of the reprobate) from Hell, who had done no good and who will then be all charred. He will throw them into a river near the entrances to Paradise and "the river of life is called; and so they will be reborn as the grain sown in the silt of the flood is reborn. You see it beside the rock and beside the trees; what is exposed to the sun is green and yellow; while what is in shadow is white. - "You speak of it like a wandering herdsman, O Messenger of God," they said. - "These men," added the Prophet, "sor fired like pearls and bearing seals around their necks. They will enter Paradise and, seeing them, the blessed will say: "These are the freedmen of the Clement; He brought them into Paradise although they had never done good". They will then be told: "Enter Paradise, what you see there is yours". - "O our Lord! You have given us what You have given to no one else in the worlds", they will say. - "I reserve you better than that", will say God. - "O our Lord! Is there anything better than that?", they will say. - "I will be satisfied with you and will never be angry with you". The last Forsaken to come out of Hell
272. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Certainly, I know well the one who will come out of Hell the last and who will enter the last in paradise. He is a man who will drag himself out of Hell and God (blessed and exalted be His name) will say to him: "Enter Paradise". Man will go there and having the impression that Paradise is cluttered, he will return to say to God: "Lord, I found it cluttered". - "Go, God will repeat to him, and enter Paradise". The man will go there again; and still feeling he is cluttered, he will return to say to God, "Lord, I found him cluttered." - "Go, will repeat God, and enter Paradise; you will have there what is equivalent to temporal goods and ten times more still or, according to a variant, what is equivalent to tenfold of temporal goods". - "You are laughing at me or, according to a variant, You are laughing at me You who are the Sovereign Master", will reply the man. - "I saw then, adds 'Abdallâh, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) laughing out loud. And it was said that this man would occupy the lowest rank among the blessed in Paradise". Those of the hosts of Paradise who occupy the minor places
278. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdillâh ( رضي الله عنهما ): Abu Az-Zoubayr transmitted that Jabir Ibn 'Abdillah had been asked about the Gathering. He replied: We will be gathered together on the Day of Resurrection and we will occupy a larger space than that occupied by the other communities. These will be called one after another, according to the idols they had worshipped. As for us, God will come and ask us: "Who are you waiting for?". - "We are waiting for our Lord", we will say. - "I am your Lord", will reply God. - "Show Yourself to us so that we can see You", they said. God will then come to them, laughing, and ask them to follow Him. Then He will give light to each one of them, whether faithful or hypocritical. They will follow Him; and will then cross the bridge established between the two extremities of Hell "As-Sirât" covered with grappling hooks and large thorns which will catch whoever God wants. The light granted to the hypocrites will be extinguished while the faithful will pass safe and sound, the first to cross the Sirat will have their faces illuminated like the full moon. They will number seventy thousand and will not be accountable. Those who follow them will have bright faces like the brightest star. And so on. Then, it will be time for intercession, thanks to which will be saved from Hell all those who testified that there is no other divinity but God, and who had in their hearts even the weight of a grain. of barley. These will be gathered to the court of Paradise; the hosts of Paradise will sprinkle them with water which will revive them and make them reborn just as the flood makes a seed reborn and their burns will then disappear. They will not cease to implore God until they obtain all the good of the lower world as well as its tenfold. Invocation reserved by the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)
293. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Every Prophet has an invocation that will be answered. I want to keep mine for s use it to intercede in favor of my Community on the Day of Resurrection".
299. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Each Prophet had an invocation answered in favor of his Community. I keep mine for his use it to intercede in favor of my Community on the Day of Resurrection". These words of God: "And warn the people who are closest to you"
303. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), when this verse was revealed: {And warn those who are closest to you.} the Messenger of God called the Quraysh to meet. Going from the general to the specific, he addressed them in these terms: "O Banû Ka'b Ibn Lu'ay, save yourselves from the Fire; O Banû Murra Ibn Ka'b, save yourselves from the Fire; O Banû ' Abd Chams, save yourselves from the Fire; O Banû 'Abd Manâf, save yourselves from the Fire; O Banû Hâchim, save yourselves from the Fire; O Banû 'Abd Al-Muttalib, save yourselves from the Fire; O Fatima, save yourselves you of the Fire. For I can do nothing for you all with God except the maintenance of our ties of kinship which I will maintain".
307. From Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ): When this verse was revealed: {And warn those who are closest to you} the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went towards Mount As- Safa and the climb, then gave a warning cry. People then wondered who was calling that. Knowing that it was Muhammad, they went to find him. - Hey! the Banû so and so! Hey! the Banû so and so! Hey! the Banû so and so! Hey Banu 'Abd Manaf! Hey! the Banû 'Abd Al-Muttalib. When they had all assembled, the Prophet said to them: "Well! Can you imagine that I am announcing to you that there are riders at the foot of this mountain who want to attack you, would you believe me?". - "Certainly yes, they answered, because, you never lied". - "Well! he resumed, I warn you that you are threatened with a terrible punishment". - "May you perish!, cried Abou Lahab, is that why you gathered us together?". It was then that this verse was revealed: {Let the two hands of Abu Lahab perish}, and in fact he perished. Intercession of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) in favor of his uncle Abu Talib, and alleviation of the punishment of the latter thereafter
308. Al-'Abbâs Ibn 'Abd Al-Muttalib (may God be pleased with him) said: "I asked the Messenger of God: "Have you made yourselves useful in any way to Abu Talib? who - during his lifetime - favored you and protected you against your enemies?" - "Yes, answered the Prophet, he is in a kind of shoal of Fire; but without my intercession, he would have been in the bottom of Hell".
310. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him), as his paternal uncle Abu Talib was mentioned one day before the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him), he said: "Perhaps that on the Day of the Last Judgment my intercession will be useful to him, so that he will only be put in the shoal of the Fire which will reach his ankles and will boil his brain". The people who will suffer the slightest punishment
313. An-Nu'mân Ibn Bachîr (may God be pleased with him) heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "On the Day of Resurrection, the most lightly punished reprobate will be the man to whom we will put under the soles of the feet two embers that will boil his brain". Ally with the faithful and break with the unbelievers
316. 'Amr Ibn Al-'As (may God be pleased with him) reports that he heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say publicly: "Certainly, my relatives are not among my allies. God alone is my Protector and righteous believers are my allies." Troops of Muslims who will enter Paradise without accountability or punishment
317. According to Abu Hurayra (peace be upon him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: “Seventy thousand of my Community will enter Paradise without judgement”. A man then said: "O Messenger of God! Call on God to be one of them". - "Lord, cried the Prophet, let him be among them!". Another man stood up and said, "O Messenger of God! Call on God to be one of them." But, the Messenger of God answered him: "'Oukkacha has preceded you".
322. According to Abu Hazim, Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him) transmits that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Seventy thousand or seven hundred thousand of my people will enter Paradise. Community (Abou Hâzim does not know which of the two numbers is the more correct) linked to each other so that their first will not cross the threshold (of Paradise) without the last also crossing it. the moon when it is full.
323. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: The various (religious) communities were paraded before me. I then saw a Prophet passing, being accompanied by a small troop of faithful (almost a dozen), another who was passing while having only one or two men in his company, and a third who was passing alone. Then, I saw a multitude of people and I believed that it was about my Community; but I am told that it was Moses (Musa) (peace be upon him) and his people. I was then asked to look at a large mass that blocked the horizon. - "Look also from the other horizon", they added. I also saw another large mass there, it was then that I was told: "Here is your Community and there will also be seventy thousand who will enter Paradise without being asked for any account and without they suffer punishment". Having said this, the Prophet got up and went home. The assistants, they began to discuss about those who will enter Paradise without being asked to account and without suffering any punishment. Some then said: "Perhaps they are the companions of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". Others said: "It is rather those who are born Muslims and who have never associated any deity with God, etc.". As the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came back and learned the subject of their discussion, he said: "It is about those who do not exorcise themselves and do not practice exorcism, those who are not not superstitious and of those who put all their trust in their Lord". 'Ukkâcha Ibn Mihsan then stood up and said: "O Messenger of God! Invoke God to be one of them". - "You will be", replied the Prophet. Another Muslim then stood up and asked the same thing of the Prophet, who replied: "You have been preceded by 'Ukkâcha". The Muslim Community will constitute half of the hosts of Paradise
324. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Would you be satisfied to be a quarter of the inhabitants of Paradise?". And we (as a sign of rejoicing) to do the takbîr (to say God is Great). - "Would you be satisfied to be the third of the hosts of Paradise?". We did the takbîr again. - "I hope, he added, that you will be half of the guests of Paradise. Indeed, the Muslims are only among the polytheists like a white hair on the skin of a black bull or like a black hair on the skin of a white bull". Regarding these sayings: God said to Adam: Bring out of Hell out of every mile, nine hundred and ninety-nine
327. According to Abu Sa'id (may God be pleased with him) the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "God - may He be Exalted! - will call Adam. "O God! Here I am answering Your call, from You we hold our happiness and in Your hands You hold all the good", Adam will answer. - "Bring out those who are destined for Hell", ordered God. - "And what is part of Hell?" - "Out of every thousand men nine hundred and ninety-nine", He will say to him. horror of that day), that {every pregnant female will miscarry what she was wearing. And you will see the people drunk, when they are not. But God's punishment is severe}". Pained, the faithful asked: "O Messenger of God! Who among us will be this man (the thousandth)?". - "Rejoice, he replied, while there will be a thousand of Gog and Magog (destined for Hell), there will be only one of you". Then he added: "I swear by Him who holds my soul in His power, I hope that you will form a quarter of the hosts of Paradise". As we praised God and made the takbîr, he added: "I swear by Him who holds my soul in His power, I hope that you will form the third of the hosts of Paradise". As we praised God and made takbîr again, he continued: "I swear by Him who holds my soul in His power, I hope that you will form half of the hosts of Paradise. You are in the midst of the other communities like a white hair on the skin of a black bull or like a white spot on the pastern of a donkey". The authentic Muslim 2 - Purification Obligation to perform minor ablutions (wudû') for prayer
330. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When one of you is defiled by any impurity, it is essential for him to repeat his ablutions, for his prayer to be accepted". Manner of performing ablution and performing it in its entirety
331. The account of 'Othmân Ibn 'Affân (may God be pleased with him): Having asked for water to perform ablution (Wudû'), he washed his hands three times, rinsed his mouth and inhaled the water through the nostrils. Then he washed his face three times, both arms up to the elbows three times as well, starting with the right side. Then he passed his wet hand over his head, washed his feet to the ankles three times while starting with the right foot; finally he said: I saw the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) performing his ablutions in the same way and I heard him say afterwards: “Whoever performs his ablutions as I have just performed them; then prays two rak'ahs without his mind being distracted at the time, will obtain forgiveness for his previous sins". Merit of minor ablutions and prayer
337. The account of 'Uthman (may God be pleased with him): According to Abu Anas, one day when 'Uthman was doing his ablutions at Al-Maqa'id (place located near the mosque), he said : "Do you want me to show you how the Prophet (peace be upon him) performed his ablutions?". Having said this, he began to perform ablution, washing each of his limbs three times. Ablutions of the Prophet (peace be upon him)
346. 'Abdallâh Ibn Zayd Ibn 'Asim Al-Ansâri (may God be pleased with him) transmits that some people asked him to show them how the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) performed his ablutions. A basin of water was then brought to him and he performed ablution as follows: he poured water on his two hands which he washed three times. Then he put his hand in the basin, scooped up water in the palm of his hand, rinsed his mouth and sucked the water through his nose, all three times. Plunging his hand into the basin again, he drew water from it to wash his face three times; then drawing water again from the basin, he washed his hands each twice up to the elbows. This done, he drew more water and passed his hand over his head, going back and forth; finally, he washed his feet up to the ankles and said: "Such was the ablution of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". Squeeze water in through the nose and expel it and wipe off several odd times
348. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever cleans the natural orifices of the body after natural needs (using water or of the earth), do it an odd number (i.e. one, three, five, etc. times); and let him who performs ablution reject the water which he has inhaled through his nostrils" .
351. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When one of you wakes up, let him suck water through his three nostrils times; then let him reject it each time; for the devil spends the night on his nose". Obligation to wash feet
354. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: On our return from Mecca to Medina in the company of the Prophet (peace be upon him), passing near a source of water; Shortly before the 'asr prayer, some of them hurriedly performed their ablutions. When we joined them, we realized that they had not washed their heels, the Prophet said: "Woe to the heels when they are exposed to the fire of Hell! Complete your ablution!"
356. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) having seen a man who had not washed his talents while making ablutions, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "Woe to the heels when they are exposed to the fire of Hell!" Recommendation to Perform Ablution Perfectly
362. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "On the Day of Resurrection, you will have bright marks on your forehead, hands and feet, traces of your perfect ablutions. Let him who among you can enlarge his brilliant marks, do so (by perfecting more and more of his ablutions)".
367. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) going one day to the cemetery, he said: "Peace be upon you, O believers of this abode. We others, God willing, we will join you, I regret not seeing our brothers". The faithful then asked him: "Are we not your brothers, O Messenger of God?". - "You are rather my companions, he replied to them, our brothers are those who have not yet come into the world". - "How, O Messenger of God, will you know (on the Day of Resurrection) those of your Community who have not yet come into the world?". - "What do you think of a man who owns horses with white spots on their foreheads and feet, will he be able to recognize them if they are among black horses?". - "Certainly yes, O Messenger of God!". - Thus, my brothers will come (on the Day of Resurrection) with white marks on their foreheads, hands and feet because of their ablutions and I will go ahead of them to the Pool. And there will be, on the other hand, men who will be pushed away from my Basin as one pushes back a stray camel. And I call them: "Come on!". But they will answer me: "After your death, they abjured your religion". I will then say: "Exterminate them! Exterminate them!" Use of the siwak
370. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If it had not been too imposing on the Believers - or, according to Zuhayr, on my Community - I would have ordered them to make use of the siwâk (instrument for cleaning their teeth) before each prayer".
373. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: "One day when I went to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), I found him cleaning his teeth with the siwak".
374. Hudhayfa (may Allah be pleased with him), said: "The Prophet (peace be upon him) used to rub his teeth with the siwak, when he woke up at night to perform the Tahajjud prayers. ". Features of the fitra
377. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Fitra (primordial nature) has five requirements - or, alternatively, there are five requirements of the fitra-: circumcision, shaving of pubic hair, trimming of nails, waxing of armpits and trimming of mustaches".
380. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "Cut the mustaches short and let the beards grow". Good practices
388. Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "When you go to satisfy a natural need, do not face the Qibla or face it. neither turn your back, but face east or west".
390. Abdoullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "There are people who claim that one should not face neither the Ka'ba nor Jerusalem by satisfying a natural need. But I, added 'Abdallah , one day when I was mounted on the roof of a house, I saw the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sitting crouching on two dry bricks to satisfy a natural need; while facing Jerusalem". Prohibition to clean oneself using the right hand, after excretion
392. Abu Qatadah (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Do not hold your penis with your right hand while urinating; do not wipe yourself with your right hand after satisfaction of natural needs and do not breathe into the vessel (while drinking)". Start from the right to do different things
395. According to 'A'isha (raa), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) preferred to begin with the right side, whether it is a question of doing his ablutions, combing his hair, or even putting on his shoes. Cleanse with water after excretion
398. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), one day the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) entered a garden, followed by a boy carrying a basin filled with water. The boy who was the youngest among us put the basin near a jujube tree; the Prophet (peace be upon him) then satisfied his natural needs; then wiped with water. Run wet hands over the boots
402. According to Hudhayfa (may God be pleased with him): One day when I was in the company of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he went to a heap of garbage where he urinated while standing . I then moved away, but the Prophet called me. So I approached, standing behind him. He then performed his ablutions and passed his damp hand over his slippers.
404. According to Al-Mughîra Ibn Chu'ba (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having gone out to satisfy a natural need, Al-Mughîra followed him carrying a small vase full of water. When the Prophet had finished, he poured water for her. And the Prophet to do his ablutions; while running his wet hand over his slippers. Immerse the hand of doubtful purity in a vase of water before washing it three times
416. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When one of you wakes up, let him not put his hand in the water (for his purification) unless he has washed it three times; for the sleeper does not know where he has laid his hand during the night". Judgment passed on the lapping of the dog in a vase of water
418. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If a dog laps into the vase of one of you, 'he pours out its contents and washes it seven times'. No urination in stagnant water
424. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Let no one urinate in stagnant water; then draw water from it for ablution". Obligation to wash away traces of urine and other impurities with water if they are found in the mosque. The earth can only be purified with water
427. According to Anas (may God be pleased), a Bedouin began to urinate in the mosque; a few people rushed upon him, but the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) cried out, "Leave him alone and do not interrupt him." When the man had finished urinating, the Prophet ordered a bucket of water and poured it on the defiled place. Judgment on infant urine and how to wash it off
430. 'Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (raa), said: "Newborns were often brought to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). rubbed the inside of their mouths with a chewed date, and one day, as a child was brought stained part ".
432. 'Umm Qays bint Mihsan (raa) narrates that she once brought to the Prophet (peace be upon him) one of her sons who was then an infant and put him in her lap. As the child urinated on the Prophet's clothes, the latter asked for water and merely sprinkled the soiled area. Judgment on sperm
434. The story of 'Aisha (raa): According to 'Alqama, a man spent the night at the house of 'Aisha. In the morning, when he woke up, he began to wash his clothes (because he had had nocturnal pollution). Having seen him, 'A'isha said to him: "If you see the stain, wash it; if not, sprinkle water on the place (which you think is soiled) of your clothes. I still remember having dry rubbed the stains (of ejaculation) of the clothes of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who then went to pray; dressed in these same clothes". Blood impurity and how to remove it
438. Asma (raa) said: A woman came to the Prophet and asked him: "What should we do with our clothes if they happen to be stained with the blood of our menses?" . - "Rub the soiled area dry, then completely wet the garment while rubbing it, wash it finally. You can then wear it while praying". he answered. Impurity of urine and obligation to purify oneself
439. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) passed one day by two graves he said: "Those who are buried there, suffered tortures and yet it is not not for capital sins. In fact, one peddled slander; as for the other, he did not wipe himself after urinating". Having said this, he had a wet palm brought to him, divided it in two, planted each of the two parts in front of a grave, then said: "I hope their torments will be alleviated as long as these two parts (of the palm) remain fresh" . The authentic Muslim 3 - Menstruation Contacts, above the izâr, with his wife when she has her period
440. 'Aisha (raa) said: When one of us had her period and the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) wanted to have sexual intercourse with her, he ordered her to wrap herself an 'izâr (a kind of loincloth fitted around the loins above the navel).
442. According to Maymoûna (raa), "Whenever the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) wished to have sexual intercourse with one of his women, who was having her period, he enjoined her to wrap herself in an 'izâr (a kind of loincloth fitted around the loins above the navel)". Sleeping under the same blanket next to his wife when she has her period
444. Um Salama (raa) said: "While we were lying down, me and the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), under a woolen blanket, I had my period. I fled immediately and went put on my period costume". “Do you have your period?” asked the Prophet. - "Yes", I answered. So he called me and I got back with him under the blanket. She added that she washed herself with the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) in the same basin of the impurities of coitus. Permission to the woman who is menstruating to wash her husband's head and comb it; purity of the other parts of his body. It is permissible for her husband to lay his head in her lap and then recite the Quran
445. 'A'isha (raa) said: "When he was in spiritual retreat (I'tikâf), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) held out his head to me to comb his hair; and he never returned home. only to satisfy a natural need".
454. 'A'isha (raa) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) leaned on my lap while I was having my period; and recited the Qur'an". oozing
456. 'Ali (may Allah be pleased with him) said: I was often subject to [Madhi], but as I was ashamed to ask the Prophet (peace be upon him) about it, for I was his son-in-law, I instructed Al-Miqdad Ibn Al-'Aswad to ask him the question. The Prophet then replied: "Let him wash his rod and perform ablution". Wash hands and face after waking up
459. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "One night the Prophet (peace be upon him) got up to fulfill his natural needs. He then washed his face and hands and went back to sleep". Permission to the person soiled by the impurities of coitus to sleep (without making lotion); she is recommended to perform ablution and wash her genitals when she wants to eat, drink, sleep, or have sexual intercourse
460. According to 'A'isha (raa), when the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) wanted to sleep while he was defiled as a result of sexual intercourse, he first performed his ablutions as for prayer.
462. Narrated Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) 'Umar asked the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him): "Can one sleep being defiled as a result of sexual intercourse?". - "Yes, answered the Prophet, on condition that he performed ablutions". The woman must do major ablution if she ejaculates
469. According to Oum Sulaym (raa), I asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) what the woman should do if she sees an erotic dream, just like the man. - "If she ejaculates, answered the Prophet, she will have to wash herself". Feeling a little ashamed, I asked the Prophet: "Does the woman ejaculate?". - "Yes, replied the Prophet, otherwise thanks to what would his child resemble him. The liquid emitted by the man (the sperm) is thick and whitish, while that of the woman is fluid and yellowish. The resemblance (of the child to one of its parents) then depends on which of the two liquids reaches the uterus first".
471. According to Oum Salama (raa), I came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and asked him: “O Messenger of God! Certainly, God is not embarrassed by the truth. Eh good! Should the woman wash herself if she sees an erotic dream?". - "Yes, answered the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him), provided that she notices the ejaculation". - "O Messenger of God! Does the woman ejaculate?". - "Yes, replied the Prophet, otherwise, thanks to what would his child resemble him?". How to carry out purification after coitus
474. According to 'Aisha (raa), said: "When the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) washed after coitus, he first washed his hands, then with his right hand, drew water which he poured into his left hand to wash his penis. Then he performed his ablutions as for prayer. Then he took water and ran his wet fingers through his hair to the roots. Once sure that the water had reached his whole body, he drew more water in the palm of his hand, which he poured over his head three times, then flooded his body with it, and finally washed his hands. feet".
476. Maymoûna (raa) said: "One day when I brought the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) a basin of water to purify himself after coitus, he washed his hands twice or three times, drew water from the basin and poured it on his rod, which he washed with his left hand. Then he rubbed his left hand strongly against the ground, performed his ablutions as if for prayer, drew three water and poured it over his head, then he washed the rest of his body. This done, the Prophet went away from where he was standing and washed his feet. When at last I handed him the bath towel, he refused to use it". Amount of water used for washing following coitus. A man and his wife can perform major ablution using the same vessel of water.
481. The story of 'Aisha (raa): Abu Salama Ibn 'Abdurrahman said: One day, I went to 'Aisha with his foster brother. The latter asked him how the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) washed himself after coitus. She then ordered a basin filled with nearly a bucket of water. Hidden from our sight by a curtain, she began to perform her major ablutions and poured water three times over her head. The transmitter adds that the wives of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) arranged their hair in a ponytail.
486. The account of Maymoûna, wife of the Prophet (raa): Ibn 'Abbas said: "Maymoûna informed me that she performed major ablutions with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) by drawing water in one vessel".
487. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made his major ablutions with the remaining water of Maymoûna, once this one having finished its own".
489. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) washed himself with five makuk of water (one makuk equals two handfuls) and performed his ablutions with only one makuk. Recommendation to run water three times over the head and other parts of the body
493. According to Jubayr Ibn Mut'im (may God be pleased with him), Being at the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the Believers discussed about major ablutions (ghusl). One of them says: "I wash my head so many times". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) answered him: "As for me, I pour on my head three handfuls of water".
495. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdillâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), the delegation of Thaqîf asked the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him): "The region where we live is cold, how should we perform our ablutions? major (ghusl)?" - "As for me, answered the Prophet, I pour the water three times on my head". Judgment on the braids of a woman doing her major ablutions
498. Narrative of 'A'isha (raa): According to 'Ubayd Ibn 'Umayr, 'A'isha heard that 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr ordered the women to straighten their hair while doing major ablution. 'A'isha then exclaimed, "How strange Ibn 'Amr! He commands the women to comb their hair when doing major ablution! Why does he not also command them to shave their hair?! As for I did my major ablutions with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) by drawing water from the same vessel as him, and I only (to wash my hair) sprinkled the water three times on my head". Recommendation to a woman who is purifying herself to use cotton soaked in musk and wipe her external genital area
499. According to 'A'isha (raa), a woman asked the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) how she should wash off her period. He therefore gave him instructions on how to wash himself and added: "Then take a rag scented with musk by means of which purify yourself". - "How do I purify myself with this cloth?" she added. - "Glory to God! retorted the Prophet, purify yourself". At this moment, the Prophet turned his face away; Sufyân Ibn 'Uyayna then pointed to his face (grimacing to simulate the attitude of the Prophet at that time). 'Aisha added: I drew this woman towards me and, having understood what the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) meant, I said to her: "Follow with this cloth the traces of blood" . Major ablution and prayer of a woman who has a bleeding vein
501. According to 'A'isha (raa), Fatima bint 'Abi Hubaysh came to say to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "O Messenger of God! I am suffering from bleeding apart from my menstruation and I can't purify myself, should I give up prayer?". - "No, replied the Prophet, this blood comes from a vein, it is not about menstruation. When you are indisposed, stop praying and once this period is over, wash yourself and pray" .
502. According to 'Aisha (raa), Umm Habiba bint Jahch came to tell the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "I am suffering from blood loss apart from my menstruation". - "It comes from a vein, it is not your menstruation, answered the Prophet, wash yourself and say the prayer". As a result, she washed herself before each prayer. The woman must fast for a number of days equivalent to the number of days she did not fast in Ramadan (because of her menses), but she must not perform the missed prayers during these days.
506. According to 'Aisha (raa), a woman asked him: "When one of us is purified of her menses, should she make the prayers that she did not make during this period?". - "Are you then a Harûriyya? (Al-Harûriyya: a sect of the Schismatics belonging to the place of Harûrâ'), answered 'Aisha; in the time of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), none of us was ordered to make up for the prayers she missed during her period". Whoever performs major ablution must hide behind a garment or something else
509. Umm Hâni' bint 'Abi Talib (raa) said: "The year of the conquest (of Mecca), I went to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and found him doing his major ablutions, while his daughter Fâtima concealed him from view with the help of a dress".
511. Maymoûna (raa) said: "One day, I brought water to the Prophet (for him to use in his major ablutions) and while he was washing, I hid him from view" . Permission to wash naked when alone
513. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: The Israelites washed themselves naked, some looking at the private parts of others; while Moses (Musa) (peace be upon him) went aside to wash. - "By God, said the Israelites, what prevents Musa from washing among us is that he has a varicocele". One day when he had gone to wash, he put his clothes on a stone. She grabbed her clothes and fled, and Musa chased after her, shouting: "Pierre, my clothes! Pierre, my clothes!". The stone stopped and it was then that the Israelites could see Musa's private parts; So they said, "By God! Musa has no infirmity." He (Musa) took up his garment again and then began to strike the stone. Abu Hurayra added: "By God! These blows imprinted on the stone six or seven marks". Hide your private parts
514. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdillâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), while the Messenger of God was transporting with Al-'Abbâs stones for the reconstruction of the Ka'ba, Al-'Abbâs said to him: "Why not take off your izâr (loincloth) and put it on your shoulders under the stones?”. The Prophet took off his garment; placed it on his shoulders, but he soon fell unconscious; fixed his eyes on the sky; then stood up, exclaiming: "My izâr! My izâr". He then put it back around his queens. Major ablutions in case of ejaculation
521. According to Abou Sa'îd Al-khudrî (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having sent for a man of the 'Ansar; he arrived with his head dripping with bath water. - "Perhaps then said the Prophet, did we hasten you (while you were sleeping with your wife)?". - "Yes", replied the man. - "When you are in such a hurry or when you have not ejaculated, you do not have to wash yourself, but only do your ablutions".
522. 'Ubayy Ibn Ka'b (may God be pleased with him) said: "I asked the Prophet (peace be upon him) about coitus interruptus (before ejaculation).-" In this case, replied the Prophet, let the man wash the parts that have been in contact with the woman and perform ablution to perform the prayer".
524. 'Uthmân Ibn 'Affân (may God be pleased with him) reports that Khalid Ibn Zayd Al-Juhanî asked him: "What do you think of the case where the man accomplishes a coitus interruptus?" - "He must, replied 'Uthmân, make ablution as he practices it for prayer and wash his rod; this is what I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say on this subject. Abrogation of this rule: Major ablutions in case of ejaculation Obligation of major ablutions following any kind of coitus
525. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "If the man places himself between the thighs and the legs of the woman and there is At penetration, the Ghusl (major ablution) will therefore be obligatory". Repeal of performing ablution after eating roast meat
531. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) after eating the shoulder of mutton, prayed without redoing his ablutions.
533. 'Amr Ibn 'Umayya (may God be pleased with him) relates that he saw the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) butchering a shoulder of mutton and eating it; then he prayed without redoing his ablutions.
535. According to Maymoûna, the wife of the Prophet (raa), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ate shoulder of mutton at her house and then prayed without redoing her ablutions.
537. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having drunk milk, had water brought to him and rinsed his mouth; then said: "It is because milk contains fat". The fact of doubting a minor impurity does not oblige to redo its ablution
540. 'Abdallah ibn Zayd ibn 'Asim Al-Ansari (may God be pleased with him) said: pray. “Let him not interrupt the prayer until he hears a noise or smells a smell,” replied the Prophet. Purity of the skin of a dead animal after tanning
542. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) spent one day near a dead sheep which had been offered as alms to a freedwoman of Maymoûna. "Why," said he, "don't you take advantage of his skin; tan it and make use of it?" - "It's a dead animal", we answered. - "It is forbidden only to eat it", resumed the Prophet. Dry ablutions (tayammum)
550. 'Aisha (raa) said: We had left with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) for one of his expeditions when, having arrived at Al-Baydâ' - or at Dhât Al-Jaych, my necklace cut itself and fell off without my knowledge. The Prophet stopped to look for him and everyone else stopped too. It happened that we were not near a water point and that we were in lack of water. Then the devotees went to Abu Bakr and said to him, "Don't you see what 'Aisha has done; she has compelled the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) and his companions to stop although they are not at a water point and have not brought any with them". Abu Bakr then came to find me when the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), his head resting on my thigh, had fallen asleep. - "You have retained, he said to me, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him) and everyone although they are not on a water point and that they do not have any not brought with them". And Abou Bakr to continue to scold me and address me all the reproaches that it would please God to let him say, and to give me a hand on the waist. He only prevented me from moving (the fear of disturbing) the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who was sleeping on my thigh. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) got up the next morning and, as we were without water, God revealed the verse concerning dry ablutions and they performed them. - "O family of Abu Bakr, cried 'Usayd Ibn Al-Hudayr, one of the nobles, this is not the first of your blessings!". Then, added 'Aisha, when we raised the camel which served as my mount, we found the collar under the animal".
552. According to 'Ammar (may God be pleased with him), Shaqiq said: I was sitting with 'Abdallah and Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari. Abou Mûsa says to him: "O Abou 'Abdourrahmân! If a man is in a state of major impurity and that he does not find water during one month, how will he make to accomplish the prayer?". - "He must not perform ablution when dry, even if he does not find water for a month", replied 'Abdallah. - "And then, resumed Abou Moûsa, how do you conceive this verse of sura Al-Mâ'ida: {and that you do not find water, then resort to the pure land...}, replied Abou Moûsa. - "If, replied 'Abdallah, we accept this tolerance, we will hasten, when the water is cold, to perform ablutions dry", said 'Abdallah. Abu Musa resumed: "Did you not hear what 'Ammar had said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sent me on a mission for a business. As I found myself in a state of major impurity and I did not find any water, I began to wallow on the earth like an animal. When I came back, when I told the thing to the Prophet, he said to me: "It would have been enough for you to do this". , saying, he struck the ground with his palms once, then rubbed against each other; then the backs of his hands and his face".
554. Abu Al-Juhaym Ibn Al-Hârith Ibn As-Samma Al-Ansâri (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was advancing from the direction of Bi 'r Jamal, when he met a man who saluted him. The Prophet did not return the salutation to him, until he touched a wall, and his hands, then he returned the greeting". The Muslim never defiles
556. The account of Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him): Abu Rafi' transmitted from Abu Hurayra that one day, being still defiled as a result of coitus, he met the Prophet in one of the streets of Medina. He then slipped away and went to do his major ablutions. When he returned, the Prophet said to him: "Where did you go, Abu Hurayra?". - "O Messenger of God! When you met me, I was still defiled following coitus and did not want to remain in your company, I replied, only being purified". - "Glory to God!, cried the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), know that the Believer never defiles". What to say before going to the bathroom
563. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: Whenever the Prophet (peace be upon him) went to the toilets: - according to the version of Huchaym, went to the latrines - he said "Lord! I take refuge with You from demons and demonesses". A man who sleeps sitting down doesn't have to do his ablutions again.
564. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: The second call to prayer was made, while the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had an aside with a man. When he finally came to preside over the prayer, his companions were already asleep. The authentic of Muslim 4 - Prayer The call to prayer, at the beginning
568. 'Abdallâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: At the beginning of their arrival in Medina, the Muslims gathered waiting for the prayers as long as no one called there. One day, as we were discussing this subject, one of the faithful said: "Use a bell, following the example of the Christians". - "No, said another, do you use a trumpet like the Jews". - "Why, asked 'Omar, don't you ask a man to make the call to prayer?". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said: "O Bilâl! Arise and call for prayer". Order to make the first call by repeating each sentence twice and to make the second only once
569. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: "Bilâl received the order to make the first call to prayer at even and the second call at odd". Recommendation to have two "muezzins" for a single mosque
573. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had two muezzins: Bilâl and Ibn Oum Maktûm, the blind. Recommendation to repeat the formulas of the call to prayer after the muezzin, then to ask the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him) for grace and eminent place
576. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When you hear the call to prayer, repeat exactly what the muezzin says". Merit of the call to prayer and flight from Satan upon hearing it
582. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When the call to prayer is made, Satan flees by releasing winds so as not to hear him. Once the first call is over, he returns and tries to insinuate until the moment when the second call to prayer (al-'iqâma) is made. so again not to hear him; but when this last call is over, he returns and seeks to insinuate". Raising the hands to the shoulders at the same time as the takbîr before and after the bow: At the prostration, the case is not applied: "God listens to those who praise Him"
586. 'Abdallah Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "I saw the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him), beginning the prayer, raising his hands to the height of his shoulders. He do the same before and after the bow; but not between the two prostrations".
588. According to Mâlik Ibn Al-Huwayrith (may God be pleased with him), Abu Qilâba transmits that he saw Mâlik Ibn Al-Huwayrith, while beginning the prayer, pronounce the takbîr, then raise his hands. And when he wanted to bow, he raised his hands; and did the same when he raised his head after the bow. He added that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) acted in this way. Takbîr by bowing, prostrating and rising from prostration. When rising from the inclination, one says: "God listens better to those who praise Him"
590. The story of Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him): Abu Salama Ibn 'Abdurrahman transmitted that Abu Hurayra, having led the prayer of the faithful, pronounced the takbîr each time he stooped or stood up. When the prayer was over, he would say: "By God! I am the one among you who makes the prayer most exactly similar to that made by the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)".
594. According to 'Imrân Ibn Husayn ( رضي الله عنهما ), Mutarrif Ibn 'Abdillâh said: "I made with 'Imrân Ibn Husayn the prayer led by 'Ali Ibn 'Abi Tâlib. He pronounced the takbîr each time prostrate himself, raise his head or stand up after the two rak'ahs. At the end of the prayer, 'Imran took me by the hand and said: "The prayer that this man has just made for us is that of Muhammad" - or, according to a variant - "This man has just reminded me of the prayer of Muhammad (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". Obligation to recite Al-Fâtiha in each rak'a and if one does not know this surah, we recite others from what we know from the Koran
595. According to 'Oubâda Ibn Sâmit (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The prayer of the one who has not recited Al-Fâtiha (the first chapter of the Koran) is not valid".
599. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Prayer is never valid without the recitation of the Koran".
602. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) being at the mosque, a man entered, made his prayer, then greeted the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). The latter returned his greeting and said to him: "Go and start your prayer again, because you have not said it". The man went back to praying as he had done the first time, then returned to greet again the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who repeated to him: "Go and start your prayer again, because you do not didn't do". This scene happened three times. The man finally said, "By Him who sent you with the Truth, I can do no better; teach me what to do." - "When you get up to pray, replied the Prophet, first pronounce the takbîr, then recite what you know from the Koran, then bow quietly, get up and stand upright. Then, prostrate yourself quietly; finally straighten up and remain seated well upright. Act thus in all the prayer". Argument against raising your voice saying, "In the name of God, the Most Merciful, the Most Merciful" during prayer
605. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: "I was led in prayer in turn by the Messenger of God, Abu Bakr, 'Umar, and 'Uthman and I did not hear any of them recite aloud: {In the name of God, the Most Merciful, the Most Merciful}". Argument for considering: "In the name of God, the Most Merciful, the Most Merciful" as a verse of every sura, except "At-Tawba"
607. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), one day when the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was among his companions he dozed off, immediately he raised his head smiling. - "O Prophet of God, we said, why are you smiling?" He said: - "A sura had just been revealed to me", he recited We have certainly granted you Abundance (Al-Kawthar). Perform Sala for your Lord and sacrifice. He who hates you will certainly be without issue. - "Do you know what Kawthar is?" asked the Prophet. - "God and His Messenger know best", we answered. - "It is a river that God - to Him the power and the glory - has promised me, where goods abound; it is a basin where my Community will arrive to drink, on the Day of the Resurrection and whose jugs will be number of the stars. Some of my Community will be denied access to it, and when I cry out saying: O God! He is part of my Community. God will answer me: You don't know what they have done after your departure". Testimony of the oneness of God during the prayer (the tachahhud)
609. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: When we prayed the prayer presided over by the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), we said: "Peace be upon God , peace be upon so and so". One day, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) turned to us and said: "Certainly God is Peace. When you sit down (to make the taslîm) at the end of the prayer, say: Greetings, prayers and good works, all go to God. Peace be upon you, O Prophet, and the mercy of God and His blessings. Peace be upon us and upon all the righteous servants of God. invocation shall be on behalf of every righteous servant of God on earth as it is in heaven- I testify that there is no god besides God; and I testify that Muhammad is His Servant and His Messenger. Finally, ask to God what you will". The prayer for the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) after the testimony of the uniqueness of God
614. According to Ka'b Ibn 'Ujra (may God be pleased with him), 'Abdallâh Ibn 'Abi Laylâ said that having met Ka'b Ibn 'Ujra, he said to him: Do you not want me to give you a present? Well! The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having come one day to find us, we said to him: "O Messenger of God, you taught us how to greet you; but how should we do to pray for you". - "Say, he answered us: Great Lord! Pray for Muhammad and for the family of Muhammad as You prayed for the family of Abraham ('Ibrâhîm). You are truly worthy of praise and glorification! Great God! Bless Muhammad and the family of Muhammad as You have blessed the family of 'Ibrâhîm. You are truly worthy of praise and glorification".
615. Abu Humayd As-Sâ'idî (may God be pleased with him) relates that the companions said: "O Messenger of God, how should we pray for you?". - "Say, replied the Messenger of God: Great Lord! Pray for Muhammad, for his wives and for his posterity, as You prayed for the family of Abraham ('Ibrâhîm). And Bless Muhammad, his wives and his posterity , how You have blessed the family of 'Ibrâhîm. You are truly, worthy of praise and glorification!". Saying "God hears those who praise Him", praising God and saying "Amen"
617. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: When the imam says: "God listens to the one who praises Him", say: "O God , our Lord, to You is the praise". He who speaks these words; together with the angels, will obtain the remission of his previous sins.
618. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: As soon as the imam says: "Amen!". Say it also, for the angels say it; and he who says "Amen" together with the angels, God will forgive him all his former sins. Those who pray behind an imam must follow him
622. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) reports that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having fallen from his horse, scratched his right side. And we go to visit him. The hour of prayer having come, he led it while remaining seated and we ourselves prayed while seated. At the end of the prayer, the Prophet said: "The Imam was appointed to be followed. When he pronounces the takbîr, pronounce it; if he prostrates, prostrate yourself, and when he raises lift your head up. Finally, when he says: "God hears those who praise Him", say: "Lord and to You is the praise". And if he prays seated, all pray seated".
623. According to 'Aisha (raa) the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having fallen ill, was visited by a number of his companions. He led them in prayer while remaining seated. As they rose to pray, he motioned for them to sit down. So they sat down and when the prayer was over, he said to them, "The Imam was instituted to be followed: When he bows, bow; if he straightens; straighten and if he prays while seated, pray also while seated".
625. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: The Imam was established to be followed. So closely imitate his acts: if he pronounces the takbîr, pronounce it; if he says: "God listens to him who praises Him", say: "God, our Lord! Yours is the praise"; if he bows down, bow down; and if he prays seated, all pray seated. Substitution of the imam if necessary. Behind the imam who, being sick, makes the prayer seated, the faithful stands if he can and repeal of sitting in this case
629. The story of 'Aisha (raa): 'Ubayd-God Ibn 'Utba said: I entered 'Aisha's house and said to him: "Won't you tell me about the illness of the Messenger of God (peace and blessing of God upon him)?” - "Yes!", she replied. She then began in these terms: "The condition of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had worsened under the effect of the disease. However, he asked if the faithful had made the prayer. - "No, We answered him, they are waiting for you, O Messenger of God". - "Let some water be put in the basin", he said. fell fainting. Returning to himself, he asked again if the faithful had said the prayer. - "No, we answered him, they are waiting for you, O Messenger of God". He ordered us to put water in his basin; washed, tried to get up; but fell back in a faint. Having then regained his senses, he asked again: "Have the faithful said the prayer?" - "No, we replied, not yet, they are still waiting for you". He ordered water to be put in the basin; washed, tried to get up and again fell into a faint. Once he came to, he said: "Did the faithful pray - "No, we answered, they are waiting for you, O Messenger of God!". Gathered in the mosque, the faithful awaited the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) to make the 'isha' (evening) prayer". Then, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him) sent to seek Abu Bakr to preside over the prayer. The messenger went to find him and said to him: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) enjoins you to preside over the prayer of the faithful". Abu Bakr, who was tender of heart, then addressed 'Umar, saying to him: "Preside over the prayer yourself". - "No, resumed 'Umar, you have more Then, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him), feeling one day a slight improvement, left his home, leaning on two people including Al-'Abbas and went to the prayer of zhuhr (midday Abu Bakr was presiding. At the sight of the Prophet, Abu Bakr wanted to step back, but, with a gesture, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered him not to move and addressed himself to Shouting to the two people supporting him, he said, "Make me sit next to Abu Bakr." This order was obeyed: Abu Bakr, standing, followed the prayer of the Prophet and the faithful followed that of Abu Bakr. During this time, the Prophet (peace be upon him) remained seated.
636. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), Abu Bakr directed the prayer of the faithful during the illness which had carried off the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). One Monday, while they were lined up for prayer, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) lifted the curtain of the room and began to look at them. He was standing, his face looked like parchment paper, and he was smiling. We were so moved by the joy of seeing him again. As for Abu Bakr, he began to step back to take his place among the row of the faithful, thinking that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was coming to lead the prayer himself. But, with a gesture, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made a sign to us to finish the prayer and then let the curtain fall. The same day the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) breathed his last.
638. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) fell seriously ill. He then said: "Give the order to Abu Bakr to lead the faithful in prayer". - "Abou Bakr, observed 'Aisha, is a man with a tender heart; when he stands in your place he will be incapable of leading the faithful in prayer". - "Give the order to Abu Bakr to lead the faithful in prayer, he continued. Really you are like the ladies of Joseph (you discuss too much and you insist too much)!". Abu Bakr thus led the faithful in prayer during the lifetime of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). In case the imam is late in coming to preside over the prayer, the faithful can entrust someone, if they do not find in this act a derogation from tradition.
639. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd As-Sâ'idî (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had gone to the Banû 'Amr Ibn 'Awf to restore the peace among them. As the hour of the prayer had arrived, the muezzin came to find Abu Bakr and said to him: "Do you want to preside over the prayer so that I can make the second call?". - "Yes", he answered. Abu Bakr presided over the prayer, but during which, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) arrived at the mosque. He pushed his way through the faithful and took the front row. The worshipers clapped their hands (to get the Imam's attention), but Abu Bakr did not turn around and continued his prayer. Then, as the faithful were making more noise, he turned around and saw the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). He motioned for him to remain in his place. Abu Bakr raised his hands and praised God, to Him the power and the glory, for the order that the Messenger of God had just given him (peace and blessings of God be upon him). Then he stepped back and took his place in the front row among the faithful. Then the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came forward, made the prayer and when it was finished he said: "O Abu Bakr, what prevented you from staying at your place since I gave you the order?". - "It is, answered Abou Bakr, that it did not belong to the son of Abou Quhâfa (nickname of Abou Bakr) to lead the prayer in the presence of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him)" . Then, addressing the faithful, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: “Why did you clap your hands so loudly? thing, let him glorify God because this glorification attracts the attention of the imam. Only women are allowed to clap their hands for this purpose". In an emergency while praying, the man should celebrate the glory of God while the woman can clap
641. Abu Hurayrah (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "(To attract the Imam's attention), men are allowed to say: " Glory be to God"; as for women, let them clap their hands". Make the prayer to perfection, complete it and collect oneself in it
642. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) led us one day in prayer. After he finished it, he said to one of the devotees, "Aren't you improving your prayer?! Doesn't the devotee observe the way he performs his prayer? It's for his own good let him pray. By God! Certainly I see you from behind my back as I see you from across the way".
644. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Complete your inclinations and your prostrations. By God! I see you from behind me - or may -be, according to a variant: (Behind my back) -, each time you bow and prostrate". Prohibition of bowing or prostrating before the imam
647. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that Muhammad (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Does he not fear, he who raises his head before the Imam, that God will change his head into a donkey's head?" Equalization of ranks for prayer, merit of the first ranks
656. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: pray".
657. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Complete the ranks, for I see you from behind my back".
658. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: prayer".
659. According to An-Nu'mân Ibn Bachîr (may God be pleased with him), I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "Equalize your ranks, otherwise God would make your each other's faces (alluding to the hatred and hostility that risk being sown in hearts)".
661. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If the faithful knew the benefits of the call to prayer and the first rank (in the community prayer) and that they found no other means of benefiting from it than drawing lots, certainly they would have drawn lots. If they knew the benefits of waking up early, they would have hastened to And finally, if they knew the benefits of making the prayer of 'isha' (evening) and that of subh (morning), they would have returned even while dragging on the ground ".
663. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If you know the benefits of occupying the first rank (during the community prayer); you will try to take place there even by resorting to drawing lots". Prohibition of women raising their heads (after bowing or prostration) before men who pray in front of them
665. Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him) said: "I saw men who had tied their 'izârs (loincloth which should be fitted around and above the loins) around their necks, like children do so, because of the shrinkage of these garments, while praying behind the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him); and women were recommended not to raise their heads until the men had completely sat down". Women can go to mosques to pray if they do not arouse any temptation and they must go there without wearing perfume
666. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "When the wife of one of you asks him for permission to go to the mosque, let him not prevent it". Women can go to mosques to pray if they do not arouse any temptation and they must go there without wearing perfume
676. 'A'isha, the wife of the Prophet (raa) said: If the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had seen the innovations of women, he would have forbidden them the mosque as it had been forbidden for women. wives of the Israelites. - "As, added Ibn Sa'îd, I asked 'Amra (the narrator of the story of 'Aisha) if it was forbidden for the wives of the Israelites to go to the synagogues, she replied in the affirmative. ". Moderation of tone while reciting in prayers
677. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), These divine words: In your Sala, do not recite aloud; and do not lower it too much, were revealed while the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) professed Islam in muted in Makkah. When he celebrated the prayer with his companions, he raised his voice while reciting the Koran. The polytheists, hearing it, blasphemed the Koran, the One who had revealed it and the one who transmitted it. So God said to His Prophet: In your Sala, do not recite aloud so that the polytheists do not hear your recitation and... do not lower it too much so that your companions can hear you. But seek the happy medium between the two; that is to say, make sure that your voice while reciting is neither very high nor very low.
678. 'Aisha (raa) said: In your Sala, do not recite aloud; and do not lower it too much, This verse was revealed about invocations (in prayer). Listen to the recitation
679. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) this Koranic verse: Do not move your tongue... was revealed because the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), when Gabriel brought him the Revelation , for fear of forgetting, tried to repeat (what the archangel reveals to him) by moving his tongue and his lips. Then God revealed to him these verses: Do not move your tongue to hasten its recitation: then Its gathering in your heart and its fixation (in your memory) is incumbent on Us, as well as the way of reciting it. -That is to say that it is incumbent upon God to collect the Qur'an in the heart of the Prophet and make him recite it-. As for this verse: When therefore We recite it, follow its recitation, it is a question of exhorting the Prophet to lend an attentive ear to the revealed verses. And in this verse: On us then shall be his explanation shows that the explanation of the Qur'an will also be revealed to the Prophet. Since that time, each time Gabriel came to find the Messenger of God, he listened to him attentively, then after his departure, he was able to recite the Koran exactly as God had promised him. Recitation of the Quran aloud during the dawn prayer and recitation to drive away the jinn
681. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) never saw jinn nor recited Quran for them. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had set out for the fair of 'Ukaz, with a group of his companions. At that time, the devils, who came to surprise the secrets of Heaven, had been removed and chased away by flames directed against them. These devils having returned to their companions, the latter asked them what had happened to them. - "We have been kept away from Heaven and prevented from discovering its secrets, they replied, and flames have been launched against us". - "It is necessary, replied the others, that a new event has arisen for you to have been removed from the secrets of Heaven. So travel the whole earth and see who is the one who has interposed himself between you and the secrets of Heaven. ". The devils began to search and those of them who had gone towards Tuhama found the Prophet at Nakhl while he was on his way with his companions to the fair of 'Ukazh. Upon their arrival, the Prophet and his companions were performing the fajr (dawn) prayer. When the devils heard the recitation of the Koran, they listened and then said: "By God! here is the one who has come between us and the secrets of heaven". Immediately they returned to their companions and said to them: "Brothers, We have certainly heard a marvelous Reading (the Koran), which guides towards righteousness. We have believed in it, and we will never associate anyone with our Lord. It was then that God revealed to His Prophet (peace be upon him) the following words: Say: It was revealed to me that a group of jinn listened and said:...... Recitation of the Quran to the prayer of zhuhr (noon) and to that of 'asr
685. Abu Qatadah (may God be pleased with him) said: "During the first two rak'ahs of the zhuhr and 'asr prayers, the Prophet recited the first chapter of the Qur'an (Al-Fatiha) and two other suras. , he recited the verses aloud. He lengthened the first rak'ah of the zhuhr prayer, and shortened the second. He did the same during the two rak'ahs of the subh (morning) prayer". Quran recitation at fajr (dawn) prayer
702. According to Abu Barza (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him), during the subh (morning) prayer, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him) recited from sixty to one hundred Koranic verses. Recitation of the Quran at the 'isha' (evening) prayer
706. According to Al-Barâ (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) while traveling, recited during one of the two rak'ahs of the prayer of 'isha' the sura beginning with: "By the fig tree and the olive tree".
709. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdillah (may God be pleased with him), Mu'âdh Ibn Jabal used to pray with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), then went to lead the prayer of his own. However one evening, after having made the prayer of 'isha' with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him), he went to find his family and presided over the prayer, beginning it with the surah of Al-Baqara. A man immediately left the communal prayer, made the taslîm and performed the prayer alone. Having completed it, he is accused of hypocrisy. And he replied: "No, by God! I will go and find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to tell him what happened". Arrived at the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he said: "O Messenger of God, we kept camels which are used to distribute water, we worked all day; and Mu'âdh made the prayer of 'isha' with you; then by presiding over us in the prayer, he began it by reciting the surah of Al-Baqara". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went to find Mu'âdh and said to him: "O Mu'âdh, do you want to discourage the faithful from praying? Recite such and such Surah! Sufyan transmits having told 'Amr that, according to Abu Az-Zoubayr, Jabir said that the Prophet advised to recite: "By the sun and by its brightness!" (sura n° 91, Ash-Shams); "By the rising day! " (sura n° 93, Ad-Duhâ); "By the night when it envelops everything!" (sura n° 92, Al-Layl); "Glorify the name of your Lord the Most High! (sura n° 87, Al-'A'lâ)"; 'Amr adds that it was almost that. Obligation made to the imams to lighten the prayer, while doing it to perfection
713. According to Abu Mas'ûd (may God be pleased with him), a man came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "I do not attend the community prayer of subh (in the morning) because of so-and-so who lengthens it too much". Never in my life have I seen the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) get so angry and admonish. - "O people!, he cried, some of you make the faithful flee! He who leads the people in prayer must lighten it; for, among them, there are old people, weak people and others who have concerns."
714. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever among you directs the prayer of the faithful, let him lighten it, for he is among them: the little ones, the elderly, the weak and the sick. If he prays alone, let him stretch him out as much as he wants".
719. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) shortened the duration of the prayer, while fulfilling it to perfection.
722. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: "If the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) heard the crying of a child accompanying his mother (during community prayer), he would preferably recite short surahs (in order to finish the prayer quickly)". Moderation in the application of acts of prayer. Perfection always targeted
724. Al-Barâ Ibn 'Azib (may God be pleased with him) said: "In considering the prayer of Muhammad (peace and blessings of God be upon him), I found that he made it last almost equally the time of his station (to recite the Koran), of his inclination and of his recovery from the inclination, of his two prostrations and of the interval which separates them. Likewise, he remains as much, seated, after having made the final greeting (taslîm) and before leaving".
726. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: "I will do my best to lead you in prayer, as I saw the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) do while presiding ours". Thâbit said: So Anas prayed in a way that you people do not follow: When he raised his head, after the bow, he remained standing so long that one would say: "He forgot (the rest of the prayer) ", and when he raised his head after the prostration, he remained seated so long that one would say: "He forgot". Following the imam and what to do after him
728. Al-Barâ (may God be pleased with him) said: "The faithful prayed in common presided over by the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). When he raised his head after the inclination, I did not see any of us bowing his back until the Prophet stretched out his forehead to the ground. Only then did all the devotees fall prostrate." What to say in bowing and prostration
746. 'Aisha (raa) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said frequently, during his bowings and prostrations: "Glory to You, O God, our Lord! By Your praise, Lord, forgive me!". He thus made an application of the Koran. Parts on which one prostrates oneself, prohibition to bring back the hair, to collect the clothes and to hold the hair during the prayer
755. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was ordered to prostrate himself on seven limbs (of the body) and not to collect his hair nor to join the tails of his clothes". Stand in balance during the prostration, put the hands on the ground, spread the arms to both sides and the belly of both thighs
762. Anas (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: arm like a dog (which extends the legs, that is to say the whole forearm on the ground, from the fingers to the elbows)". Different parts of the prayer, what you start and end your prayer with
764. According to 'Abdallâh Ibn Mâlik Ibn Buhayna (may God be pleased with him), when the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) prayed, he held his hands apart from each other at such so much so that you could see the whiteness of his armpits. The sutra in front of the one who prays (even virtual separation, so as not to be disturbed)
773. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), when he went out on the feast day, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) gave the order to bring a pike which he planted in front of him and began to pray, while the faithful lined up behind him. He did the same during his travels; and the emirs had afterwards followed his example.
775. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) used to pray while putting his camel across in front of him in the direction of the Qibla.
777. Abu Juhayfa (may God be pleased with him) said: I went to meet the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) while he was in Al-'Abtah, camping in a red leather tent . Bilal brought the water for the Prophet's ablutions and the companions then hastened to collect this water. All those who had managed to take a few drops, sprinkled some on those who had not been able to get any. The Prophet (peace be upon him) came out, dressed in a red tunic; I still seem to see the whiteness of her legs. He performed his ablutions, Bilal called for prayer and I began to follow the direction of his mouth here and there, right and left, while he called: "Come to the prayer! Come to the success!". Then, a pike was given to the Prophet who came forward, stood in front of it and made the prayer of zhuhr in two rak'ahs. During this time, I saw a donkey and a dog pass in front of the faithful in prayer without being held back. The Prophet then made the 'asr prayer in two rak'ahs as well. He continued to shorten the prayers from four rak'ahs to just two, during his journey and until his return to Medina.
780. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "I rode on a donkey when I approached the age of puberty. At that time, the Messenger of God (peace and blessing of God upon him) presided over the prayer at Mina. I then passed in front of one of the rows of the faithful; and having let go of the donkey which went to graze, I took my place in the row; and no one proved me wrong". Prohibition made to pass or appear in front of a man who prays
782. According to Abou Sa'îd Al-khudrî (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "While you pray, never let anyone pass in front of you. Try to prevent him as much as possible. If he persists, fight him, because this passer-by must be a devil".
785. According to Abu Juhaym (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If the one who passes in front of someone who prays knew what sin he is committing, he would rather remain standing for forty (...) than pass in front of this worshiper in prayer". Abu An-Nadr said: "I don't know if he said forty days, forty months or forty years!" Being close to the sutra while praying
786. Sahl Ibn Sa'd As-Sâ'idî (may God be pleased with him) said, The place where the Messenger of God prayed (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was separated from the wall by the distance necessary for passage of a sheep.
787. According to Salama Ibn Al-'Akwa' (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) preferably chose for his supplementary prayers a place in the Mosque which he held very dear. It was the column located near the copy of the Holy Koran. The distance that separated the minbar from the Qibla was barely that necessary for the passage of a sheep. Passage in front of a man who prays
791. 'A'isha, the wife of the Prophet (raa) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) was praying during the night, while I was lying, stretched across between him and the Qibla, from the same way as the coffin is placed during the funeral".
797. Maymoûna, the wife of the Prophet (raa) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said his prayers while I remained beside him, being indisposed. of his garment touched me". Prayer made while wearing a single garment
799. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), someone asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) whether it was permissible to pray while wearing only one garment. - "Yes, do each of you have two garments?", replied the Prophet.
801. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Let none of you pray while wearing a simple piece of cloth without his shoulders being covered".
802. 'Omar Ibn 'Abi Salama (may God be pleased with him) said: "I saw the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), at Oum Salama, praying dressed in a simple piece of cloth with which he covered his whole body, while throwing his two tails over his shoulders".
805. Jabir (may God be pleased with him) said: "I saw the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) praying dressed in a single piece of cloth with which he covered himself entirely". The Authentic of Muslim 5 - Mosques and places of prayer
808. Abu Dharr (may God be pleased with him) said: As I asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) what was the first mosque built on earth, he replied: "The Sacred Mosque" . - "And then?", I continued. - "Then, he resumed, it was the Al-'Aqsa mosque (in Jerusalem)". - "And what was the time interval between their constructions?", I resumed. "Forty years," he replied. Then he added: "Wherever the hour of prayer reaches you, fulfill it. For the (entire) earth is a place of prayer".
810. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdillâh Al-Ansâri (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "I received five favors that no one had received before me. Each previous Prophet was sent to a specific people, whereas I was sent to all mankind. The spoils were made lawful for me while they were not for others. The whole earth has been offered to me as a means of purification and a place of prayer. Any man, therefore, surprised anywhere by the hour of prayer, can accomplish it wherever he is. 'granted victory (over the enemy) by inspiring him with terror from a distance of a month's march. Finally, I received the favor to intercede".
812. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "I was distinguished from among the Prophets by six favors (which God had given me granted): I had the gift of exhaustive though brief speech. I received victory through dread (thrown into the hearts of my enemies). The spoil was made lawful to me. All the earth m 'was offered as a means of purification and a place of prayer. I have been sent to all mankind. Finally, I am the last of the Prophets'. Construction of the Prophet's Mosque
816. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet arrived in Medina and settled in the highest part of this city with a tribe called the Banû 'Amr Ibn 'Awf. He stayed with them fourteen nights; then he sent for the Banû An-Najjâr. They arrived with sabers slung over their shoulders. I still seem to see the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) mounted on his camel, Abu Bakr behind him and the notables of the Banû An-Najjâr around them. They walked until they came to Abu Ayyub's house. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) prayed where the hour of prayer had surprised him; sometimes even in the sheep pen. Then, he ordered to build a mosque and sent orders for this purpose to the chiefs of the Banû An-Najjâr. - "O Banû An-Najjâr, he said to them, what price do you ask me for this enclosure?". - "By God! they answered, nothing; we ask no price for it, if not to God". Now, adds Anas, I'm going to tell you what was in that enclosure; there were palm trees, tombs of polytheists and heaps of ruins. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered the cutting down of the palm trees, the exhumation of the corpses and the leveling of the ruins. This done, the trunks of palm trees were aligned to make the Qibla of the mosque and two stone doorframes were inserted into it. The faithful and the Messenger of God set to work singing: O Lord, there is no other good than that of the other world. Grant victory to the 'Ansar and the Muhajirun Transformation of the Qibla from Jerusalem to Mecca
818. Al-Barâ Ibn 'Azib (may God be pleased with him) said: I prayed with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) facing the direction of Jerusalem for sixteen months ; until the moment when God revealed to him this verse of Sura Al-Baqara: Wherever you are, turn your faces there (towards the sacred mosque)... This verse was revealed after the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him) had made his prayer, then, a man of the faithful went away and passed near a group of 'Ansar who were doing the prayer (facing the side of Jerusalem). When he informed them of the change in the Qibla, they immediately faced the direction of the Ka'ba.
820. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: While the faithful were praying the subh (morning) prayer in Qubâ', a man was seen arriving saying: "Last night verses were revealed to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him), commanding him to turn (during prayer) to the side of the Ka'ba; therefore turn to that side". The faithful who faced Syria immediately turned towards the direction of the Ka'ba. A mosque must not: neither have figurative representations, nor be built on a tomb, nor take the place of an old tomb
822. According to 'Aïcha (raa), Oum Habiba and Oum Salama told the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) that they had seen, in Abyssinia, a church in which there were representations figured. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to them: "Among these people, when a virtuous man dies, they build an oratory on his tomb where they draw such representations. These people will be the worst creatures in the eyes of God on the Day of Resurrection".
823. According to 'A'isha (raa), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said, during his illness following which he died: "May God curse the Jews and the Christians who have taken the tombs of their Prophets for oratories". 'A'isha continued: "Otherwise, the tomb (of the Prophet) would have been built on a prominent place, but he feared that it would be taken as an oratory".
824. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "May God fight the Jews who took the tombs of their Prophets for oratories!"
826. 'A'isha (raa) said: When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) was about to expire, he began to spread on his face a khamîsa (piece of striped cloth) which belonged to him. When he felt smothered, he pushed it away from his face. Then he said: "May God curse the Jews and the Christians who took the tombs of their Prophets for oratories". He warned against this practice. Merit of the construction of mosques 'Uthmân Ibn 'Affân (may God be pleased with him) responded in these terms to the comments that people made about him after he rebuilt the mosque of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him): "You have ranted against me; I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) say: Whoever builds a mosque for God, the Most High, -according to Bukayr, for the sake of of God-God will build him a dwelling place in Paradise". Recommendation to put the flat of one's hands on the knees and repeal of bending them
832. According to Sa'd Ibn Abi Waqqâs (may God be pleased with him), Mus'ab Ibn Sa'd said: I was praying beside my father, when I placed my hands between my knees. My father says to me: "Put your palms on your knees". When I again placed my hands between my knees my father struck me, saying: "This was forbidden us; now we were ordered to put our hands on the knees". Forbidden to carry on a conversation during prayer after it has been tolerated
837. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: When we saluted the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) by praying, he would return our salvation. Later, when we came back from the Negus (back from Abyssinia) and greeted him like this, he did not return the greeting. - "O Messenger of God, we said to him, (formerly) when we greeted you, you answered our greeting". - "It is, he replied, because prayer is an (absorbing) occupation".
838. Yazîd Ibn Al-'Arqam (may God be pleased with him) said: During the prayer, we talked and talked together until the revelation of this verse: Stand before God with humility. Thus we received the order to keep silence (during prayer).
839. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdillâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) charged me with a commission. Returning, I went to find him while he was - according to Qutayba - in prayer. When I greeted him, he waved at me. After finishing his prayer, he said, "You just greeted me while I was praying (so I didn't answer you)." The Prophet, at this time, was facing the eastern side. Tolerance to curse Satan during prayer and to take refuge with God against him
842. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Yesterday an efreet from among the jinn began to tempt me to interrupt my prayer. Now, God allowed me to seize him and I strangled him, I intended to tie him next to one of the pillars of the mosque, so that in the morning you can all see it. And then I remembered the words of my brother Sulaymân (Solomon): Lord, forgive me and give me a kingdom such as none after me will have like... And God chased away the fleeing efreeti in all humility." Tolerance of carrying children during prayer
844. According to Abu Qatâda (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was praying while carrying 'Umâma que Zaynab, daughter of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) blessing of God upon him), had from her husband Abou Al-'As Ibn Ar-Rabî'. When he prostrated himself, he put the child on the ground and picked her up as he got up. Tolerance of taking one or two steps during prayer
847. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him), A group of men who were arguing about the wood from which the minbar (of the Prophet) was cut, came to find Sahl Ibn Sa'd who answered them , saying: "By God! I know very well of what and by whom this minbar was made. I also saw the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) when he settled there for the first time". - "O Abu 'Abbas (Sahl)! Tell us the story of this minbar", he was told. Sahl then resumed: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) summoned a woman - whom he did not name according to Abu Hâzim - to say to her: Order your slave the carpenter to make me a wooden platform for me to use during my public sermons". On this, the carpenter therefore made this minbar of three tiers; then it was placed in this place on the order of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). The wood of this minbar came from tamarisk from Al-Ghâba (name of a forest northwest of Medina). Once the minbar was finished, the Messenger of God went up there and made the takbîr (celebrated the Greatness of God to begin the prayer). The faithful did the same. (After having recited the passages of the Koran and made the bow), the Prophet raised his head, descended and came to prostrate himself on the ground. Going up again on the minbar, he made the second rak'ah in the same way and so on until he finished it. Then he addressed the audience saying, "O people! I did this so that you would follow my example and learn how I prayed." It is blameworthy to lay hands on the waist during prayer
848. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade pressing the hand on the waist during prayer". It is blameworthy to clean the pebble in the mosque during prayer
849. According to Mu'ayqîb (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said, about the man who levels the ground (stony) when he goes to prostrate: "If you have to do this, do it only once." It is blameworthy to spit in the mosque and especially during prayer
852. According to Abdoullâh Ibn 'Omar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having seen a spat on the wall of the Qibla, he rubbed it, then turned towards the faithful by saying: "When one of you prays, do not spit in front of him, because God is in front of the one who prays".
853. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having seen a spit on the wall of the Qibla of the mosque, took a pebble to rub it. Then, he forbids the faithful wanting to spit, to do so in front of him or to his right, but only to his left or under his left foot.
854. According to 'Aisha (raa), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having noticed a spit or a snot, on the wall of the Qibla, he rubbed it.
856. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When one of you is in prayer, he is in confidential conversation with his Lord. So let him not spit in front of him, nor to his right, but to his left, under his left foot."
857. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Spitting in the mosque is a sin which is expiated by burying (his spit)". Tolerance of praying while wearing shoes
862. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), Sa'îd Ibn Yazîd Al-'Azdî said: "As I asked Anas if the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) prayed, being shod, he replied in the affirmative". It is blameworthy to perform the prayer while wearing a garment containing drawings
863. According to 'Aisha (raa), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), being dressed in an embroidered khamisa. At the end of his prayer, he said: "I was distracted by the drawings of this Khamîsa (during the prayer); so let this garment be taken to Abu Jahm and brought to me Al-'Anbijâniyya (garment thick without drawings)". It is blameworthy to perform the prayer at the time when the meal is served
866. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When dinner is served and the time for prayer has come, start first with dinner".
868. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When the dinner of one of you is served and one makes the second call ('iqâma) to prayer, begin by eating first and do not rush to finish your meal". Prohibition of access to the mosque to anyone who has eaten garlic, onion or leek or other similar plant
870. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) during the battle of Khaybar said: "Whoever has eaten of this plant, - it is the garlic- does not go to the mosques".
872. Narrated Anas (may God be pleased with him): Anas Ibn Mâlik was asked what he had heard from the mouth of the Prophet about garlic. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever has eaten this plant, refrain from approaching us or praying with us", he replied.
874. According to Jabir (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbids eating onions or leeks; yet we were driven by need to eat it. He then said, "Anyone who eats of this smelly plant should not come to our mosque; for angels loath what human beings loath."
879. 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him) said: I did not ask the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) for explanations on a subject as I did in subject of the deceased without heirs. Now, this one never bullied me except on this subject; to the point of pinching my chest with his finger, saying to me: "O 'Omar, the revelation of the verse of Al-Sayf, the last of Surah An-Nisa' is not enough for you! If I still live, I will I will give a judgment on this verse which will serve as a reference both for those who know the Quran well and for those who do not know it". 'Umar continued his speech, saying: Lord, I call You to witness over the governors of the provinces that I have made reign there only to establish justice, to teach people their religion and the traditional practice of their Prophet ( peace and blessings of God be upon him), share their spoils among themselves and report to me on matters that seem obscure to them. O people, you eat two plants which I find only bad, namely: onion and garlic. While the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), if he smelled it emanating from one of the faithful in the mosque, ordered that he be expelled to the location of Al-Baqî'. If you must eat these plants, cook them well. Distraction during prayer and prostration afterwards
885. 'Abdallah ibn Buhayna (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) having led our zhuhr (noon) prayer, stood up after the first two rak'ahs (for do the third), without sitting down (for the first tachahhud). The faithful therefore followed him and stood up. At the end of the prayer, as we were waiting for his final greeting (taslîm), he (peace and blessings of God be upon him) pronounced the takbîr while sitting down and made two prostrations (to make up for forgetting) before pronouncing the salutation final.
889. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made his prayer - I do not know exactly, said 'Ibrâhîm (one of the transmitters of the hadith ) if he has extended or shortened it (by inadvertently performing more or less rak'ahs). When he had made the final salutation, he was asked: "O Messenger of God, did anything happen during this prayer?". - "Why is that?" he asked. - "Because, they replied, you prayed in such and such a way". The Prophet immediately bent his knees, turned towards the Qibla, made two prostrations, then made -again- the taslîm. When he turned to us he said: "If something had happened during the prayer, I would have informed you. But I am a man just like you, I risk forgetting as you forget. When I 'forget to do something, remind me. When one of you doubts about his prayer, let him try to correct himself as much as possible, finish it, then make two prostrations' .
896. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) presided over us in one of the two afternoon prayers - the zhuhr (midday) or the 'asr (afternoon); (the transmitter does not remember which of the two was designated by Abu Hurayra or, one or the other consists of four rak'ahs). The Prophet then prayed two rak'ahs; said the taslim; then went to lean on a tree trunk near the Qibla of the mosque, while being angry. Among the devotees were Abu Bakr and 'Umar who dared not speak to the Prophet (about the two missing rak'ahs). People in a hurry got ready to leave the mosque saying: "The prayer has been shortened!". At that moment, a man among the faithful, nicknamed "Dhû Al-Yadayn", addressed the Prophet in these terms: "O Messenger of God! Have you forgotten something or have you been prescribed to shorten prayer?". The Prophet (peace be upon him) looked right and left; then, addressing the faithful, he said: "What is Dhû Al-Yadayn talking about? Are things as he has just said?". - "Yes, they replied, he was telling the truth: you only did two rak'ahs". Immediately the Prophet finished what he had omitted from the prayer, made the taslîm, pronounced the takbîr, prostrated himself, raised his head while pronouncing the takbîr; then prostrated himself and finally raised his head while pronouncing the takbîr again. Prostration during recitation
900. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "When the Prophet (peace be upon him) recited to us a surah in which there was to prostrate, he would prostrate and we imitated him. was to the point that some of us could not find a place to lay our foreheads (on the ground) (allusion to the large number of the faithful)".
902. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: During his recitation of surah "An-Najm", the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) prostrated himself (at the reading of one of his verses) and so did all those who were with him, except an old man who took a handful of pebbles or earth and carried it to his forehead saying: "That is enough for me" (This man was unfaithful).
903. The account of Zayd Ibn Thâbit (may God be pleased with him) transmitted by 'Atâ' Ibn Yasâr who says he questioned Zayd Ibn Thâbit on the recitation of the Koran at the same time as the imam (during prayer). He replied by saying: "There is never recitation at the same time as the imam!". 'Atâ' adds that Zayd also claimed to have recited before the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) the Surah of An-Najm without the latter prostrating himself".
904. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him): Abu Salama Ibn 'Abdourrahman transmits that Abu Hurayra, while reciting the surah of Al-'Inchiqâq to them, prostrated himself. His prayer finished, he informed the faithful that while reading this surah, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) bowed down (to one of its verses). Invocation of God after prayer
917. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "I knew that the prayer of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was over when I heard the takbîr (celebration of the greatness of God in these words: God 'Akbar)". Recommendation to take refuge with God from the tortures of the grave
922. 'Aisha (raa) said: Two old women of the Jews of Medina came to see me and said to me: "The dead are tortured in their tombs". I called it a lie and did not see fit to believe them. When they had left and the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having come to see me, I said to him: "O Messenger of God, two old women..., and I told him the thing". - "They told the truth, he answered me; they are tortured and their cries are only perceptible from animals". Since that day, I never saw the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) make a prayer without then taking refuge with God against the punishment of the grave. What we seek refuge with God in prayer
923. 'Aisha (raa) said: "I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), in his prayers, taking refuge with God, against the temptations of the Antichrist".
924. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) said: When you pronounce the tachahhud (the testimony of uniqueness pronounced at the end of the prayer ), seek refuge with God from four (torments)... Say: "Lord, I take refuge with You from the punishment of Gehenna, from that of the grave, from the trials of life and death and against the temptations of the Antichrist".
925. According to 'Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (raa), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made, in her prayer, the following invocations: "Lord, I take refuge with You from the punishment of the grave, I take refuge in You from the temptation of the Antichrist. I take refuge in You from the trials of life and death. Lord, I take refuge in You from sins and debts." . Someone having pointed out to him that he was very eager to seek refuge with God from debts, the Prophet replied: "The man who falls under the burden of debt is likely to lie while speaking and to miss to his promises".
933. Narrative taken from Al-Mughîra Ibn Chu'ba (may God be pleased with him) by Warrâd, his freed slave. This one tells that Al-Mughîra Ibn Chu'ba wrote to Mu'âwiya informing him that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said, after the taslîm of each prayer: "There is no divinity except God, the "Unique; Who has no associates. To Him belongs the power, to Him the praise; He is Mighty in all things. Lord, no one can prevent what You give; no one can give what You refuse. Without You, the fortune of the rich will be of no use to him". Evocation of God after the prayer and its formula
936. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: The poor of the Emigrants went to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "The wealthy people, thanks to their wealth, will monopolize the highest degrees of Paradise and its eternal bliss". - "How so", replied the Prophet. - "They pray and fast like us and, in addition, they have the privilege of giving alms and freeing slaves". - "Well!, answered the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him), do not I teach you a thing that, if you practice it, you will join those who seem to have got ahead of you and will exceed ( merits) those who come after you. No one will then be better than you, except those who will do as you do". - "Yes, O Messenger of God", they said - "At the end of each prayer, glorify God, celebrate His greatness and give His praise thirty-three times". What should be pronounced between the takbîr before the prayer and the recitation
940. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made the takbîr to begin the prayer, he kept silence for a while before reciting (the Qur'an ). I said to him, continued Abu Hurayra: "O Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), may my father and my mother serve you as a ransom! What are you saying quietly during the silence that you keep between the takbîr and the recitation?". - "I say, he answered me, Lord! Remove me from my sins as You removed the East from the West. Lord! Purify me from my sins as one purifies the white garment from all stains. Lord! Wash away my sins with snow, water and hail!" Recommendation to go to prayer with tranquility and serenity and prohibition to go there in haste
944. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "When the second call to prayer is made in common, do not go there by running up; but go there walking calmly. Start your prayer from the part where you find the other faithful praying and at the end of the community prayer, complete (each one alone) the part you missed".
948. Abu Qatadah (may God be pleased with him) said: While we were praying with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), a certain hubbub was heard. At the end of the prayer, the Prophet asked the reason. - "We hastened to reach the beginning of the prayer", they answered. - "Do not act like this any more, replied the Prophet; when you go to prayer you must have a serene air. Start your prayer from the part where you find the other faithful doing and at the end of the community prayer , complete (each alone) the part you missed". When do people have to get up to pray?
949. Abu Qatada (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When the second call to prayer is made, do not stand up (for pray), until you see me".
950. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) reports that as soon as the second call to prayer was made, we stood up and arranged our ranks before the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came out. from is home. Then, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came to his place of prayer; and before he made the takbîr (to begin the prayer), he remembered that he had not yet purified himself following a cohabitation with his wife. - "Stay in your places", he told us. Then he returned home, performed his major ablutions (ghusl) and returned to us, his head still dripping with water. He then pronounced the takbîr and we presided in prayer.
953. Jabir Ibn Sumra (may God be pleased with him) said: "As soon as the sun tended to set, Bilâl made the first call to prayer ('adhân). However, he did not utter the second call ( 'iqâma) before seeing the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) leaving his home to preside over the communal prayer". Whoever makes up a single rak'ah in common, it is as if he had accomplished the whole prayer in common
954. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Anyone who has just caught up with a single rak'ah of the communal prayer, will be as if he attended it from its inception". Fixed times for the five prayers
959. Abu Mas'ûd (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: “Gabriel presiding over me in prayer. ". The Prophet repeated this last phrase five times, counting five prayers on his fingers.
961. 'A'isha (raa) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was praying the 'asr prayer while the sun was flooding my room and the shadow had not yet invaded it ". When it is very hot, it is recommended to wait for cool weather to perform the zhuhr (midday) prayer.
972. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When the heat becomes excessive, wait for the coolness to pray, because the heat intense emanates from the fire of Gehenna".
976. Abu Dharr (may God be pleased with him) said: When the muezzin of the Prophet (peace be upon him) had made the first call to the zhuhr (noon) prayer, the Prophet said to him: "Wait coolness, wait for coolness (before making the second call to prayer)!—or alternatively—“Wait, wait!” Then he added, “Fiery heat is an emanation from Gehenna. Also when the heat is excessive, wait for the coolness to make the prayer".
977. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) said: Hell complained to the Lord saying: "O Lord, I am devouring myself -even (under the effect of excessive heat and cold)!". The Lord then authorized him to take two breaths, one in winter and another in summer. It is from this that emanates the great heat, and from that emanates the great cold that you suffer from it. Recommendation to perform zhuhr (noon) prayer first thing in the morning if it is not very hot
983. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) presided over us in prayer in the heat of the heat and when one of us could not bear to put his forehead on the ground (heated), he spread his garment over it to be able to prostrate himself". Recommendation to perform the 'Asr prayer early
984. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Messenger of God was saying the prayer of 'asr when the sun was high on the horizon and alive. If someone went to Al- 'Awâlî, he arrived there while the sun was still above the horizon. (Now the distance from al-'Awâlî to Medina is about four miles)."
987. Narrative by Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) transmitted by Abou 'Umâma. The latter, after performing the zhuhr (noon) prayer, went to find Anas Ibn Mâlik in his home in Basra, which was adjacent to the mosque. When we entered his house, Anas received us by asking: "Have you made the 'asr (afternoon) prayer?". - "We have just accomplished that of zhuhr!". - "Do yourselves of the prayer of 'asr". And us to get up to pray. The prayer finished, Anas let us know that he had heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "This is the prayer of the hypocrite: he remains to watch the sun and not rise to say his prayer only when he sees the star about to set, as if he were between the two horns of the devil. Then he gets up and performs the four rak'ahs in all haste, without his mind be received there only for a short time".
990. Râfi ' Ibn Khadîj (may God be pleased with him) said: "We made with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him) the prayer of 'asr (afternoon); then, we slaughtered the camels whose flesh we divided into ten portions. We then ate this meat cooked and cooked to perfection before sunset". Seriousness of the sin committed by neglecting the prayer of 'asr
991. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who misses the performance of the prayer of 'asr (afternoon ), will be as if he had lost his family and his possessions".
993. According to 'Ali (may God be pleased with him), On the day of the battle fought against the Allies, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "May God fill their dwellings and their tombs fire! They prevented us from saying the middle prayer (that of the afternoon), until the moment when the sun set". Argument of those who say that the middle prayer is that of 'asr
1000. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdillâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), On the day of the Battle of the Ditch, 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb began to insult the infidels of Quraysh (their enemies) saying: "O Messenger of God! I barely managed to perform the 'asr (afternoon) prayer as the sun was about to set." The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "By God! I haven't done it yet!". So we went to Buthan where the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) performed his ablutions and we performed them too. Then, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made the prayer of 'asr after sunset, followed by that of maghrib (of sunset). Merit of fajr and 'asr prayers and their observance
1001. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: “Diurnal angels and other nocturnal ones follow one another among you. gather together at fajr (dawn) and 'asr (afternoon) prayers. Those who have spent the night among you go up to the Lord. God, although He knows it better than them, asks them then: “How did you leave My worshippers?” - “We left them praying, they will answer, and we found them praying”.
1002. Jarir Ibn 'Abdillah (may God be pleased with him) said: We were sitting with the Prophet (peace be upon him) one night when the moon was full. Having seen it, he said to us: "You will see the Lord as you see this moon and you will not suffer any injustice to see Him. As much as you can, perform the fajr (dawn) prayer before the sunrise and that of 'asr (afternoon) before sunset". Then Jarir recited: {and celebrate His praise, before sunrise, before sunset}.
1005. According to Abu Moûsa Al-Ach'âri (may God be pleased with him) the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who made the two prayers of fajr (dawn) and from 'asr (afternoon) will enter Paradise". The timing of the sunset (maghrib) prayer is when the sunset disappears
1006. According to Salama Ibn Al-'Akwa' (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made the maghrib (sunset) prayer, when the solar disc disappeared from view .
1007. Râfi' Ibn Khadîj (may God be pleased with him) said: "We made the maghrib (sunset) prayer with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him) and when we left (it was still day in point that) one of us could still shoot arrows". The fixed hour of the 'isha' (evening) prayer and deserves to delay it
1008. According to 'Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (raa) said: One night, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) delayed the performance of the 'isha' (evening) prayer. until the first third of the night. When 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb told him that the women and children had fallen asleep, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came out and said to the people gathered at the mosque (waiting for him): "No one in world, other than you, expects prayer like this". This was before Islam was widespread among the people.
1010. Abdoullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: One night, we were waiting for the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to preside over us in the prayer of 'isha' ( evening). He did not come out until after the first third of the night had passed, or even later; we didn't know what had held him back, was it a family matter or something else. Having left his house, he said to us: "You are waiting for prayer; and it is never done by those who profess religions other than yourselves. If I were not afraid of imposing a heavy task on my Community, I would order him to say the evening prayer at this time". Then, he gave the order to the muezzin to call to prayer in which he presided over us.
1012. The story of Anas (may God be pleased with him), transmitted by Thâbit, Anas was asked how was the ring of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). He replied: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) delayed one night the performance of the 'isha' (evening) prayer until the middle of the night or almost. When he entered the mosque, he addressed the faithful who had remained waiting for him: "There are people who, having paid their prayers, have already gone to bed. As for you, you were in prayer all the time you have waited for its fulfillment in common". Anas adds: "I still seem to see his silver ring shining; while he raised his left little finger".
1014. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: My companions who embarked with me, we were encamped in Buthan while the Prophet was in Medina. Each night, in turn, a group among them went to make the 'isha' (evening) prayer with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). When our turn came, my companions and I went to the Prophet (peace be upon him) who, being preoccupied with certain matters, delayed the 'isha' prayer until dark night fell, and even until midnight. Then he went out and presided over them in prayer. When this was over, he addressed those present, saying: "Do not hurry; listen to these teachings and rejoice that by exclusive divine grace, no one in the world, except you, prays to this hour", or "no one except you prayed at this hour". We do not know which of these two expressions he used. So, adds Abu Musa, we returned enchanted with what we had just heard from the mouth of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)".
1015. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: One night the Prophet of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) delayed the performance of the 'isha' (evening) prayer until nightfall. the dark night so that the faithful fell asleep, woke up, then fell asleep again and woke up again. Then, 'Omar Ibn Al-Khattâb went to find the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "Prayer?". 'Atâ' (one of the transmitters of the hadith) adds that Ibn 'Abbas continued in these terms: of his head on which he had placed his hand. He said: If I were not afraid of imposing a heavy task on my Community, I would have ordered him to say this prayer at this time". I asked 'Atâ' to specify in what way the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had his hand placed on his head according to the indication of Ibn 'Abbas. 'Atâ' then parted his fingers slightly from each other, then placed the ends of these on the side of his head, and simulated the way in which the Prophet made his hair sweat by passing his hand over his head until that his thumb should touch the extremity of the ear which immediately follows the face, then the temple at the place of the birth of the beard; he did this neither quickly nor slowly. Recommendation to do the Fajr prayer early and deserve the Quran to be recited there
1020. 'Aisha (raa) said: "The believing women attended the subh (morning) prayer presided over by the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him); they then returned to their homes, while being completely covered with their garments made of silk or wool; and no one could recognize them".
1023. Account of Jâbir Ibn 'Abdillâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) transmitted by Muhammad Ibn 'Amr Ibn Al-Hasan Ibn 'Ali who said: Al-Hajjâj having come to Medina, we asked Jâbir Ibn 'Abdillâh (about the times of the pray). He replied: "The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) prayed the zhuhr (noon) prayer at the time of the greatest heat towards the middle of the day; that of 'asr (afternoon) noon) when the sun was still alive; that of maghrib (sunset) when it had disappeared on the horizon. As for that of 'isha' (evening), sometimes it advanced it and sometimes it delayed it: he advanced it, if he saw the faithful all gathered together, and he delayed it, when they were late in coming. - did it in the chiaroscuro towards the end of the night".
1024. The story of Abu Barza (may God be pleased with him): Sayar Ibn Salama said: I heard my father asking Abu Barza about the prayer of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). He then replied: "As for the 'isha' (evening) prayer, he did not hesitate to delay it a little until midnight; he did not like to sleep before its time, nor to talk after its completion". Later, - adds Chu'ba the transmitter - I met him and asked him the question again, Abu Barza then said: "And he was doing the zhuhr (noon) prayer, after the sun had passed in his course by the meridian; and made that of 'asr (afternoon) while the sun remained very much alive to such an extent that a man would have time to go to the end of Medina and to return ". - "As for that of maghrib (of the sunset), I forgot, said the transmitter, the time he specified for me to accomplish it. But, when I met him later, I I asked him the question again. Abu Barza then added: "The Prophet was saying the subh (morning) prayer at the moment when the man, preparing to leave, will be able to recognize the one who was at his side (during the prayer). community); and recited during this prayer from sixty to one hundred verses of the Koran". Merit of the common prayer and insistence on not missing it
1034. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: you alone".
1038. From Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ): The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Prayer in common exceeds by twenty-seven degrees that made by man alone ".
1040. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having noticed the absence of a number of faithful during certain community prayers, said: I was on the point of appointing a man to preside over the prayer (in my place) to go and find those who were missing from the prayer. I would then have given the order to burn them by setting fire to their dwellings using fueled logs. If one of these people knew that he would find some fatty bones there, he would never have missed the 'isha' (evening) prayer. An additional prayer can be made in common. Prayer on a mat or something pure
1053. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), his grandmother Mulayka one day invited the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to a meal she had prepared. He ate it, then said: "Get up so that I can preside over you in prayer!" - Immediately, adds Anas, I went to get a mat we had that had become completely black from use and I sprinkled it with water. The Prophet (peace be upon him) stood up; the orphan and I lined up behind him; as for the old woman, she stood behind us. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) prayed two rak'ahs with us, then left.
1054. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was endowed with the best character. Sometimes the hour of prayer came when the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was with us, he ordered to sweep and sprinkle with water the mat on which he was standing, then stood up to preside over the prayer and we arranged ourselves behind him. raffia".
1055. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came to our house when there were only my mother, my maternal aunt Oum Haram and me. - "Let me preside over you in an additional prayer!", said the Prophet. And he made it for us. (A man asked Thâbit: "And where did Anas stand in relation to the Prophet?" - "The Prophet placed Anas on his right", he replied). Anas continued: Then the Prophet made invocations in favor of us, - us, the people of the house - wishing us all the good of the here below as well as that of the hereafter. My mother said to him: "O Messenger of God! Your little servant... invoke God on his behalf". Then, the Prophet made me his best wishes, the last of which was: "Lord! Increase his wealth and his offspring and bless them". Merit of the steps made to get to the mosques
1064. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Those who will have the greatest reward for their prayer are those who live far from the mosque, walk a long way to get there. Likewise, the one who waits to perform the prayer with the imam, will obtain more reward than the one who is content to do it alone and then lie down". The walk to the mosque erases sins and increases good works
1071. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) transmits that he heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "Suppose a river flows in front of the door of one of you and that he draws from it to wash himself five times a day. Do you think he will have the slightest filth left?". - "Not certainly", they answered. - "Well! he added, it is the same with the five prayers, it is thanks to them that God erases sins".
1073. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever goes to the mosque in the early morning or in the evening, God will reserve for him in Paradise a place of residence as a reward for each visit, whether day or night, that he had made". Who most deserves to be the imam
1080. Mâlik Ibn Al-Huwayrith (may God be pleased with him) said: While we were forming a group of young people of the same age, we came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and we stayed with him for about twenty days. The Prophet (peace be upon him) was compassionate and kind, believing that we had a desire to return to our own, he asked us for information about our parents whom we had left. When we informed him, he said: "Return to your parents, stay among them, instruct them and command them that when the time comes for prayer, let one of you give the call to prayer and let the eldest among you preside". Devotion in prayer when misfortune strikes Muslims
1082. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: During the fajr (dawn) prayer, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) used to say, after the recitation of the Koran and the pronunciation of the takbîr and raising his head from the inclination: "God listens to those who praise Him. Lord! Yours is the praise". Then, still standing, he said: "Lord! Deliver Al-Walîd Ibn Al-Walîd, Salama Ibn Hishâm, 'Ayyâch Ibn 'Abi Rabî'a and all the weak among the Believers (these were imprisoned among the polytheists). Lord! Overwhelm with Your anger the tribe of Mudar (hostile to the Muslims) and make their years like those of Yusuf (Joseph) (years of trouble). Lord! Accursed Lihyân, Ri'l, Dhakwan and 'Usayya who had been rebellious against God and His Messenger". - Later, adds the transmitter, we knew that the Prophet gave up this habit at the revelation of this verse: You (Muhammad) have no part in the (divine) order - that He (God) accept their repentance ( by embracing Islam) or that He chastises them, for they are indeed wrongdoers.
1084. Tradition noted by Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him): Abu Salama Ibn 'Abdourrahman transmits that he heard Abu Hurayra say: "By God! I will closely follow the prayer of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him) presiding over you in prayer". Abu Hurayra made invocations during the prayer before or after prostration (qunût), during the zhuhr (midday), 'isha' (evening) and subh (morning) prayers. He made invocations in favor of the believers and called the curse of God on the infidels.
1085. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: "For thirty mornings, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made invocations against those who had killed his companions at Bi'r Ma'ûna: the Ri'l, the Dhakwan, the Lihyan and the 'Usayya who had shown themselves to be rebellious to God and His Messenger". One must fulfill the missed prayer and recommendation to do it as soon as possible
1099. According to Abu Qatâda (may God be pleased with him): The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) addressed us saying: "You will have to spend the afternoon and the night everything on the move. Tomorrow, God willing, you will come to a source of water". The travelers each went their own way. Abu Qatada said: While the Prophet (peace be upon him) was walking and I was beside him, he dozed off around midnight. As he was in danger of falling off his camel, I came to support him without waking him up; until he recovered. He then continued walking until most of the night was over. So he dozes off; and as he was in danger of falling off his camel, I came to support him without waking him up until he straightened up. He resumed walking again and towards daybreak, he dozed off and bowed this time more than the two previous ones until he was on the point of falling, I came again to support him. But, the Prophet woke up and said raising his head: "Who is it?". - "It's Abu Qatada!", I answered. - "And since when were you supporting me in this way?". - "All night long". - "May God keep you as you kept His Prophet!". Then he added, "Do you think people can't see us? Can you see someone?" - "Here is a traveler!, I say,...... and here is another!". We finally met and we were seven in number. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then stopped and said: "Rest; but pay attention to the hour of our prayer!". The Prophet (peace be upon him) was the first to wake up to the effect of the sun falling on his back. And we wake up with a start. The Prophet told us to mount the saddle. We resumed our walk, until the sun was high. At this time, the Prophet came down and asked for the container containing some water that I was carrying with me, to do his ablutions. He made them with a little water and there was still a little left. He (Abou Qatâda) then said to me: "Keep your container so that we can use it: it will be of great use". Then, Bilâl called for prayer and the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made a prayer of two rak'ahs, followed by that of subh (in the morning), as he did it every day. The Prophet (peace be upon him) rode again and so did we; but we began to whisper wondering how to atone for our failure to pray (that of fajr which must be performed before sunrise). The Prophet then said to us: "Do you not take me as an example to follow? When the delay in the performance of the prayer is due to sleep, it is not a question of failure. It is failure when 'the performance of one prayer is intentionally postponed until the coming of the next prayer. Whoever involuntarily breaks prayer, let him pray it as soon as he realizes it; if he does not remember that the next day, let him do it at the same time". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) thinking of the other faithful left at the place of the halt, he asked: "What did these people do?". - "When they woke up, they did not find their Prophet. However, Abu Bakr and 'Umar reassured them by telling them that the Prophet was near and that he was not to leave them behind. Some people said that the Prophet (peace be upon him) was before them and exhorted others to obey Abu Bakr and 'Umar to follow the right direction". We found these people as the day had progressed and the heat had become scorching. They then exclaimed: "O Messenger of God! We are going to perish of thirst". The Prophet reassured them by saying: "You will not perish! Bring me my little bowl!" The Prophet (peace be upon him) had the container (already mentioned) brought and began to pour water, while Abu Qatada offered it to the thirsty. When people saw the water in the container, they rushed to it, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to them: "Observe discipline in drawing from it and you will all be quenched!". They obeyed him and the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then began to pour water, and I (Abu Qatâda) to offer it to them, until only the Messenger of God remained. (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and me. He poured me and said: "Drink". - "I will only drink after you, O Messenger of God!". - "Will drink last the one who offers the drink to people". - "I drank, said Abou Qatâda, and after me the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him). Later, when we reached the source of water, the travelers were already quenched". 'Abdallah ibn Rabah said: "While I was recounting this tradition (to the devotees) in the great mosque, 'Imran ibn Husayn interrupted me by saying: 'O young man! Be careful when telling the story because I was one of the travelers that night". - "So you are much more informed about the thing". - "Where are you from?" - "I am part of the 'Ansar" - “Tell me; you are the best to know the hadiths", he replied. And I continued the relation of my tradition to the people. one retained such an impeccable memory".
1100. 'Imrân Ibn Husayn ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I was traveling with the Prophet (peace be upon him). We set out from the beginning of the night until the break of day. At this time, we stopped to rest. But we were overcome by sleep until sunrise. Abu Bakr was the first of us to wake up. We used to never wake up the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him), and leave him until he woke up on his own. When 'Umar woke up, he approached the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and began to make the takbîr aloud so that he woke the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). As soon as he was awake and saw that the sun had already risen, the Prophet said, "Get on your way!" We then followed him and when the sun was shining in the sky, the Prophet came down and presided over us in the subh (morning) prayer. One of the men did not take part in the prayer and stayed away from the others. At the end of the prayer, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) addressed him in these terms: "O so and so, what prevented you from praying with us?" . - "O Messenger of God! It is because, he replied, I am affected by impurity as a result of coitus". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered him to do dry ablution (tayammum) with the help of earth and then to pray. The transmitter continued: "Then the Messenger of God asked me to go in haste with some having camels and horses, to fetch water, as everyone was panting with thirst. On the way, we met a woman on a horse, who let her legs drag between two skins of water. - "Where is the water?", we asked her. - "Alas! Alas! There is no water here", she replied. - "How far is the water from your house? ", we resumed. - "A day and a night's walk", she resumed. - "Go and find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him)", we replied. - "That is that the Messenger of God?" she asked. However, we did not give her time to decide and brought her with us. Once introduced to the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him), he asked her the same question and she gave him the same answer and added that she was a widow and was raising orphans. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered that his camel that carried water, he put his mouth on each of the orifices of the two skins into which he spat; and then left the mount to us. Although we were more than forty men very thirsty, we were quenched; we filled all the skins and all the cups we had and the man - who was unclean - did his major ablutions (ghusl) However, we did not water our camels , although the two great wineskins were so full that they were about to burst. Then the Prophet said to us: "Give me what you have as provisions!". We brought him pieces of bread and dates which he put in a bundle. He gave it to the woman saying, "Go and give this food to your orphans, and know that we have not diminished your water". When she was with her family, she said to them: "I have just met the greatest of magicians, unless he is a Prophet as he claims. Such and such a thing happened to me with him". Thanks to this woman, God directed the inhabitants of this locality to the right path; and they all embraced Islam.
1102. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever has forgotten to say a prayer must perform it as soon as he remembers it. . This is the only way to expiate it". The authentic of Muslim 6 - Traveler's prayer and its abbreviation
1105. According to 'Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (raa), the prayers were first fixed at two rak'ahs each; in case of stay as well as during the trip. The prayer made while traveling was maintained as it was; while that made in the first case, was increased.
1112. Narrative of Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ): Hafs Ibn 'Asim transmits that Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said to him: O my nephew! I accompanied the Prophet (peace be upon him) during the trip; he never prayed more than two rak'ahs, such was his tradition until the end of his life. I have accompanied Abu Bakr, 'Omar and 'Uthman on a journey; each of them never prayed more than two rak'ahs and that was until their death. Now, God (the Most High) said: Indeed, You have in the Messenger of God an excellent model (to follow),......
1114. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: "Residing in Medina, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made the zhuhr (noon) prayer in four rak'ahs; but (camping during the trip) to dhûl-Hulayfa, he made that of 'asr (afternoon) in two rak'ahs".
1118. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: We left with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to go from Medina to Mecca. He (peace be upon him) said all the prayers in two rak'ahs each (even those of four rak'ahs) until we returned. - "How long did you stay in Mecca?" he was asked. - "Ten days", he answered. Abbreviation of Prayer to Mina
1119. Abdullah Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made the prayers in two rak'ahs during his travels to Mina or other".
1122. Tradition noted by 'Abdoullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him): 'Abdourrahmân Ibn Yazid said: 'Uthmân presided over us in a prayer at Mina and made it in four rak'as. When 'Abdoullâh Ibn Mas'oud was made aware of this, he said: "Certainly we belong to God, and it is to Him that we will return" (formula pronounced during affliction and the understanding of a bad news) and added: "I made the prayer at Mina with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him); then with Abu Bakr As-Siddiq; then with 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb; and they did not did it only in two rak'ahs. Would to heaven that God accepts of these four rak'ahs only two".
1123. Hâritha Ibn Wahb (may God be pleased with him) said: "At Mina, I took part in the prayer presided over by the Messenger of God who made it in two rak'ahs. Never had the faithful been so numerous and felt safe from danger (only on that day)". Prayer at home in case of rain
1125. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) says: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) used to order in cold and rainy nights to order the muezzin to say while calling to prayer: "Say prayer at home!"
1128. According to 'Abdallâh Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), One rainy day, Ibn 'Abbâs (in his capacity as imam) said to the muezzin: By calling for prayer, and after having said: "I testify that there is no god but God. I bear witness that Muhammad is the Messenger of God", said: "Say prayers in your homes!" instead of: "Come to prayer!". To the reprobation of the faithful, Ibn 'Abbâs justified himself by saying: "You are surprised, but another, better than me, has already acted in this way. Although the Friday community prayer is obligatory, I found it bad get out of your house to walk in the mud and mire". Tolerance of praying on a mount when traveling, regardless of direction
1129. Ibn 'Umar (may God be pleased with him) said: "While on his camel, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made his additional prayer, wherever he went".
1137. 'Amir Ibn Rabi'a (may God be pleased with him) transmits that he saw the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), during his travels, saying his supplementary prayer at night, while remaining on his camel; in any direction it took.
1138. Tradition noted by Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him): Anas Ibn Sîrîn said: "We went to welcome Anas (ibn Mâlik) when he returned from Syria. We met him at 'Ayn At-Tamr I saw him praying, mounted on a donkey and his face turned to this side, that is to say to the left of the Qibla". - "I see, I said to him, that you perform the prayer without facing the Qibla". - "If, he replied, I had not seen the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) do it, I would never have done it". Tolerance of joining two prayers while traveling
1139. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), said: When the Prophet (peace be upon him) was in a hurry during the journey, he practiced the two prayers of maghrib (sunset) and 'isha together. ' (evening).
1143. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: When he set out before the setting of the sun, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) delayed the performance of the prayer of zhuhr (of noon) until the time of the practice of that of 'asr (afternoon). At this time, he stopped to perform the two prayers together. When the sun went down before he left, he prayed the zhuhr; then mounted his mount. Put two prayers together when you're in town
1146. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) unites the performance of the two prayers of zhuhr and 'asr at the same time (one following the other); and did the same for those of maghrib and 'isha' without there being any journey or danger". Leave the place of prayer on the right side or on the left side
1156. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: "Let none of you be inspired by Satan; thinking that he must go to the right side (at the end of prayer), because I often saw the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) going from the left side". It is blameworthy to say an extra prayer after the second call to prayer
1162. According to 'Abdallâh Ibn Malik Ibn Buhayna (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) passed near a man who was praying after the second call ('iqâma) at the subh (morning) prayer was pronounced. He spoke words to her, the subject of which we did not know. When the prayer was over, we surrounded this man and asked him: "What did the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say to you?". - "He told me, replied the man, you are about to perform the subh (morning) prayer in four rak'ahs (this prayer is two rak'ahs in addition to two additional others) “Recommendation to make two rak'ahs when entering the mosque
1166. According to Abu Qatâda (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When one of you enters the mosque, let him make a prayer two rak'ahs before sitting down".
1168. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdillâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) owed me money; he then discharged his debt and gave me even more than he gave me. However, when I went to find him at the mosque, he asked me to make two rak'ahs (This is the prayer of the greeting of the mosque)". Recommendation to make two additional rak'ahs in the mosque when you have just returned from a trip
1171. According to Ka'b Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) never returned from the trip except in broad daylight in the morning. He first went to the mosque where he prayed two rak'ahs; then settled there. Recommendation to perform the duha (morning) prayer, the number of its rak'ahs varies between two and eight
1174. 'A'isha (raa) said: "I have never seen the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) perform the additional duha (morning) prayer and yet I It happened to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to abandon certain practices which he would nevertheless have wanted to accomplish, for fear that the faithful, wishing to imitate him, would see these practices obligatorily imposed on them. ".
1182. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: "My best friend - the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) - recommended me three things: to fast three days each month; to do the two rak'ahs of the duha (morning) prayer and perform the witr (one rak'ah) prayer before going to bed". Recommendation to make two rak'ahs before the fajr (dawn) prayer, encouragement to accomplish them and to shorten them. The suras whose recitation is recommended during these two rak'ahs
1184. Narrative of Hafsa (raa): According to Ibn 'Umar, Hafsa, the mother of the Believers, told him that when the muezzin finished the first call to the fajr (dawn) prayer and, as soon as the morning appeared, the Prophet (peace be upon him) made two short rak'ahs before the second call.
1187. 'Aisha (raa) said: "The Prophet (peace be upon him) prayed two short rak'ahs as soon as he listened to the first call to the fajr (dawn) prayer". Merit and number of additional prayers before and after the prescribed prayers
1200. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "I made with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) two rak'ahs before the zhuhr (noon) prayer and two more at its end, two after the maghrib (sunset) prayer, two more after the 'isha (evening) prayer and two after the Friday prayer. 'isha' and Friday, I made them in the company of the Prophet in his house". Permission to perform additional prayers standing or seated and perform one part of the rak'ah standing and the other part sitting
1205. 'A'isha, the mother of believers, (raa) said: "I have never seen the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) perform the night prayer while sitting. But, when he advanced in age, he recited the Koran while remaining seated, and when he only had about thirty or forty verses of the sura left, he got up, recited them standing, then bowed".
1209. Narrative of 'A'isha (raa): 'Abdallah Ibn Shaqiq said: "I asked 'A'isha: Did the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) pray while sitting?" 'Aisha replied, "Yes, when he was old." Night prayer, number of rak'ahs that the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) performed at night, the odd rak'ah constitutes a complete prayer
1215. A'isha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "At night, the Prophet (peace be upon him) would do eleven rak'ahs including an odd rak'ah. As soon as he finished them, he lay on his right side; until the muezzin made the (first) call to prayer. Then he gave two short rak'ahs".
1219. Abu Salama Ibn 'Abdurrahmân transmits that he asked 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) about the (night) prayer that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made during Ramadan. She replied: "Neither in Ramadan nor in other months, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) did not do more than eleven rak'ahs. He first did four as good as they were long; then four others as good as they are long; then three".- "I then said to him, adds 'Aisha, O Messenger of God, are you going to bed before doing the rak'ah of the witr prayer?". - "O 'Aisha, he replied, my eyes drowsy while my heart is always awake".
1223. Narrative of 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ): Abu 'Ishâq said: "I asked Al-'Aswad Ibn Yazid about the narration that 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) had told him about the (night) prayer of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". He replied: According to her, the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) slept at the beginning of the night, got up to pray before it came to an end. If he wanted to satisfy a need with his wife, he did so and then fell asleep. When the muezzin made the first call to prayer, he jumped up from his bed (not by God, she didn't say that; rather he was getting up) and poured water over his body (By God , she did not explain by saying that it was Ghusl, but I knew that she was referring to it). When he was not in a state of major impurity, he performed his ablutions like any other faithful; then performed two rak'ahs (additional before the fajr prayer). 1225: Masroûq says: "I asked 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) what was the favorite (additional) act of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". She replied, "It was the one that can be achieved sustainably." And, when I asked him what time the Prophet got up for the (night) prayer, 'Aisha replied: "At the cockcrow, he got up and prayed".
1226. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "Never did the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) pass daybreak at my house except while asleep".
1227. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) finished the two rak'ahs of the fajr (dawn) prayer, he would talk with me if I was awake; otherwise he was going to bed".
1228. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) was praying at night and when he came to the rak'ah of the witr prayer, he said to me: "Get up 'Aisha and pray the witr prayer.
1230. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "Every night the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made an odd rak'ah which he ended just before daybreak". Set of nocturnal prayers and judgment on those who do not do them because of sleep or illness
1233. According to Zurâra, Sa'd Ibn Hisham Ibn 'Amir wanted to fight in the path of God. Arrived in Medina, he met some people from Medina who forbade him and informed him that a group of six people had the same desire during the lifetime of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade them, saying: "You don't take me for an example to follow?". When they had informed him, he (Sa'd) resumed his affair with his wife whom he had divorced, with the knowledge and sight of the witnesses. He then came to find Ibn 'Abbas whom he asked about the witr prayer that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) used to perform. - "Do you know who is the most knowledgeable person on the prayer of witr of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)?", said Ibn 'Abbas. -"Who is it?". - "It's 'Aïcha, go ask her your question, then come back and tell me her answer". - "So I went to find her, on the way, I passed by Hâkim Ibn 'Aflah whom I asked to accompany me to her home". He then said, "I will not approach her again, for I had forbidden her to report anything about the conflict between the two clans, and yet she refused and continued to report." Having insisted with him, he consented to accompany me to 'Aisha. We returned to her house on her authorization. She then recognized Hakim and said: "Is it you?". - "Yes", he answered. - "Who's with you?". - "Sa'd Ibn Hisham". -"Who is Hisham?". - "The son of 'Amir". She asked for mercy from God on her behalf and spoke well of him. According to Qatâda -who was wounded on the day of 'Uhud-, Sa'd said: "O mother of believers, inform me of the character of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". - "Don't you recite the Koran?". -"Yes". - "The character of the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) was inspired by the Koran". When I was about to leave, - deciding never to ask anyone a question until my death, I had the idea to say to him: "Inform me of the night prayer that the Prophet (peace and blessing of God upon him). - "Do you not recite the sura beginning with 'O you, the wrapped (in your clothes)'!". - "If". - "God the Most High prescribes the prayer nocturnal in the first verses of this surah. The Prophet (peace be upon him) and his companions did it for a year. God revealed the end of this Surah only after twelve months; when at last He revealed relief in his closing verses. Thus the night prayer became an additional work, after having been an obligatory work". - "O mother of believers, inform me of the prayer of witr made by the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) . -"We used to prepare his siwâk (toothbrush) and water for his ablutions. God, according to His will, woke him up at any time of the night, he then rubbed his teeth, made his ablutions and prayed nine rak'ahs, during which he did not sit down until the eighth. standing without doing the taslîm. Then he made the ninth rak'ah, sat down, glorified God, praised Him and invoked Him, finally he made the taslîm so that we heard him. After having made the taslîm, being seated, he prayed two rak'ahs. These are the eleven rak'ahs, O my son. When the Prophet (peace be upon him) grew old and fat, he prayed seven rak'ahs in proceeding during the first two rak'ahs in the same way as before. Here then are nine rak'ahs, O my son. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) when he made a prayer, liked to practice it on a long-term basis. Thus, if it were overcome by sleep or by some illness preventing him from praying during the night, he performed twelve rak'ahs during the day. But it has not come to my knowledge that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had recited the whole Quran in one night, or prayed all night until morning, or fasted for a whole month except during Ramadan". I then went to find Ibn 'Abbâs to whom I transmitted his story. He then said: "She told the truth, if ever I was one of her relatives or I had the authorization to enter her home, I should have visited her so that she would repeat this story to me in person." - "If I ever knew that you were not authorized to enter her home, I would not have never passed on his story," Sa'd said.
1239. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: A man asked the Prophet (peace be upon him) about the night prayer. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "The rak'ahs of this prayer are done two by two. If any of you fear being surprised by the time of the fajr prayer (of the 'dawn) that he makes a single rak'ah which will make odd the number of rak'ahs he has just prayed".
1244. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "Let him who performs the night prayer, end it with an odd rak'ah, for the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has ordained it". Incitement to invoke God at the end of the night to be answered
1261. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: God -may He be Blessed and Exalted- descends each night to the nearest heaven (of the earth), towards the last third of the night and says: "Who calls upon Me, that I hear him? Who asks Me, that I give him? Who implore My forgiveness, that I forgive him? " Recommendation to perform the night prayer in the month of Ramadan (tarâwîh prayer)
1266. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever performs the night prayer during Ramadan, with sincere faith and with all purity of intention , will be forgiven his previous faults".
1270. According to 'Aisha, the mother of the Believers ( رضي الله عنها ), one night the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made the night prayer in the mosque, some devotees then made it with him . The following night, he did the same, and the faithful became even more numerous. On the third or fourth night, these met (at the mosque); but the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) did not go there. The next day he said: "I saw what you did. What prevented me from going to you was that I feared that this prayer would become an obligation to you". The narrator adds that it was during Ramadan. Invocation during the night prayer
1274. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I spent the night with my maternal aunt Maymûna. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) got up in the middle of the night, satisfied his natural need; then washed his face and hands and went back to sleep. Afterwards, he got up, untied the skin and completed his ablutions without consuming much water. He stood up and began to pray. As for me, I got up, stretching so he wouldn't think I was watching him, performed my ablutions. When he stood up (from prostration) to begin a new rak'ah, I stood on his left, but he took me by the hand and placed me on his right. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) prayed thirteen nightly rak'ahs one after the other. He then went to bed and fell into such a deep sleep that he snored, for he used to snore in his sleep. Then, Bilâl came to call him to prayer. So he got up and prayed without redoing his ablutions. In his invocation, he said: "Lord! Illuminate my heart, my sight and my hearing; shine light on my right, my left, above me, below me, in front of me and behind me; and flood bring me light".
1285. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I was traveling with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), when we came to a stream. The Prophet then said to me: "O Jabir, you are not going to cross it?" - "Yes", I answered. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came down and I crossed the stream. Then the Prophet went to satisfy his natural need, while I prepared water for him for his ablution. He made them, then got up to say the prayer, being dressed in a single garment which he made cross. I stood behind him (to pray), when immediately he pulled me by the ear and placed me on his right.
1288. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), When the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) rose at night to pray, he said: "Praise to You; You are the Light of the heavens and of the earth. Praise to You, You are the Ruler of heaven and earth. Praise to You, Ruler of the heavens and the earth and all in them. You are the Truth; Your promise is true; Your word is true; Your meeting is true; Heaven is true; Hell is true; the Hour is true. Lord, it is to You that I submit myself; it is in You that I believe it is to You that I entrust myself; it is to You that I repent; it is thanks to You that I fight; it is You that I take as my arbiter. Forgive me my past and future sins. and those committed in secret or in public. For You are my Lord, there is no god but You". Recommendation to lengthen the recitation of the Quran during the night prayer
1292. The story of 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) transmitted by Abu Wâ'il, 'Abdullâh said: "I prayed together with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). He stood for so long that I was on the verge of doing something wrong." - "What did you think of doing?". - "I thought about sitting down and leaving him (standing)". The one who sleeps all night until morning
1293. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: There was talk before the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) of a man who had fallen asleep a whole night until morning. The Prophet then said: "That man, the devil urinated in his ears - or he said in his ear".
1294. According to 'Ali Ibn 'Abi Talib (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went unexpectedly at night to Fatima and him, and asked them: "Aren't you going to do the night prayer?". - "O Messenger of God, our souls are in the hands of God, I replied; if He wants to wake us up, He will wake us up". On this, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went away and I heard him say by striking his thigh: Man, however, is of all beings the greatest disputer.
1295. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: When one of you sleeps, the devil binds three knots on his neck, in him wishing for a long and deep sleep (to prevent him from performing the night prayer). If the devotee wakes up and mentions God, one of the nodes is delirious; if he performs ablution another knot will come loose and if he prays all the knots will dissipate. Then he will be ready in the morning and will have a calm soul; otherwise, he will be lazy and downhearted. Recommendation to perform additional prayers at home and permission to perform them at the mosque
1296. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Perform prayers also in your dwellings so that these do not turn into tombs ".
1299. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A house where the Lord is mentioned and another where it is not not, are respectively comparable to the living and the dead".
1301. Zayd Ibn Thâbit (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) used mats or palm leaves to build a small room. He went there to pray (night); when some faithful came to pray behind him. One night, they came before the Prophet and waited for him. When he lingered outside his house, they called out loud to him and knocked on his door with stones. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) immediately came out in anger and said to them: "(I observed) what you had not stopped doing (the past nights), so that I fear that (this additional prayer) not be obligatorily prescribed to you! Pray the prayer at home, because the best prayer for the believer is that which he makes at home except for the prescribed prayer". He who falls asleep during his night prayer should go back to sleep or sit up until he is fully awake.
1306. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: Entering the mosque, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) saw a cable stretched between two columns. - "What is this cable?", he asked, - "It is Zaynab's cable. She clings to it when - praying - she feels some laziness or feels some fatigue". - "Untie him and let everyone pray as much as he can; when he feels weary or tired, let him sit down!", continued the Prophet.
1309. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If any of you doze off, praying, let him go to bed until he is no longer sleepy. He who prays while dozing may call down a curse upon himself, instead of asking forgiveness for his sins." Order to put into practice the prescriptions of the Koran and reprimand to say: "I have forgotten such and such a verse. On the contrary, it is permissible to say: I have been made to forget it"
1311. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) heard someone reciting from the Qur'an (in the mosque) during the night. “May God have mercy on him! He reminded me of such and such verses that I had forgotten in such and such suras”.
1313. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) reports that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The man who memorizes the Qur'an is like the man who has bridled camels As long as he insists on observing and maintaining them, he keeps them, but if he neglects them, they run away."
1314. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) addressed someone who said: "I have forgotten such and such a verse" , saying: "How badly you said! Say rather: "I have been made to forget it". Study the Koran, because it escapes more easily from the memory of men than an unbridled camel.
1317. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Read and re-read the Koran, because, I swear by Him who holds the soul of Muhammad in His power, he escapes more easily than the unbridled camel". Recommendation to chant the Quran
1318. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "God does not pay so much attention to something as He does to place of a Prophet chanting the Koran".
1322. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet said to him: "O Abu Musa, if you had seen me yesterday while listening to your recitation! Certainly, you are endowed with a harmonious voice similar to those of the family of Dawwud (David)". Narrative of the recitation of Surah Al-Fath by the Prophet on the day of the capture of Mecca
1323. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mughaffal Al-Muzanî (may God be pleased with him) "The day of the capture of Mecca, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), straddling his camel, to repeat the recitation of Surah Al-Fath". Descent of serenity during the recitation of the Quran
1325. Al-Barâ' Ibn 'Azib (may God be pleased with him) said: A man was reciting Surah Al-Kahf while he had tied his horse with two halters. A cloud enveloped him and began to turn and move closer to him. His horse kept straying from it. The next morning, the man came to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and told him what had happened. He replied: "It is the sakina (serenity sent by God in the form of a cloud) which descended thanks to the recitation of the Koran". Merit of the one who retains the Quran by heart
1328. According to Abu Moûsa Al-Ach'âri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Believer, who recites the Koran resembles the citron having a good smell and a pleasant taste; while the Believer who does not recite it is like the date, which, although it has no perfume, is of a pleasant taste. The hypocrite who recites the Koran, is like the myrtle whose perfume is pleasant and the taste bitter; whereas the hypocrite who does not recite it is like the gourd which has no perfume, and whose taste is bitter". Merit of the one who recites the Quran easily and of the one who finds a difficulty in his recitation
1329. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "He who recites the Qur'an skillfully will be with noble and obedient angels; while he who recites it laboriously in stuttering, will have a double reward". Recommendation to recite the Quran
1330. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to 'Ubayy: "God gave me the order to recite the Koran near you". - "Has God appointed me personally?" asked 'Ubayy. - "Yes", replied the Prophet. 'Ubayy, adds Anas, then burst into tears. Deserve to listen to the Quran, ask those who remember it to recite it. Crying during its recitation and meditation on its senses
1332. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to me: "Recite the Koran to me". - "O Prophet of God, how do I recite the Koran to you, when it was revealed to you?". - "I want to hear it from someone other than me", resumed the Prophet. I then began to recite sura An-Nisa'. Arrived at this verse: How will they be when We bring a witness from every community and We bring you (Muhammad) as a witness against these people? I raised my head - or a man sitting beside me caught my eye - and I saw the Prophet's tears flowing.
1334. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: I was in Hams when some people asked me to recite the Qur'an, so I recited Sura Yûsuf (Joseph). A man of them said, "It was not thus revealed." - "By God, this is how I recited it before the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who said to me: It is well recited", I replied. Merit of sura Al-Fâtiha, the last verses of sura Al-Baqara and encouragement to recite the last two verses
1340. According to Abu Mas'ûd Al-Badri (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever recites, at night, the last two verses of Surah Al-Baqara will be preserved from all evil". Merit of reciting Surah Al-'Ikhlas
1347. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), the Prophet (peace be upon him) sent a man at the head of a force. When he presided over the prayer of his companions, he always ended it with sura Al-'Ikhlâs which begins with this verse: "Say: He is God, Unique". On their return, they told the thing to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who said: "Ask him why he was acting like this". When they asked him the question, he said: "This surah contains the attributes of the Clement; that is why I like to recite them". This answer reached the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he said to them: "Tell him that God loves him". Merit of the one who puts into practice the prescriptions of the Koran and teaches it and of the one who learns a jurisprudential sentence or a maxim and applies it
1350. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There is envy only in two cases: towards a man who knowing the Koran by heart by the grace of God, recites it day and night; and towards another favored by fortune by the grace of God, the expenditure (in alms) day and night".
1352. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There is envy only in two cases: in the place of the man whom God has favored with a fortune and who only thinks of spending it totally in good; and towards another whom God has favored with wisdom and who is inspired by it in his decisions and the 'teaches (to others)'. The Quran is recited from seven different readings
1354. 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard Hishâm Ibn Hakim Ibn Hizâm recite sura Al-Furqân differently than I recited it. But the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had me recite it by himself. I was about to interrupt him, but I let him finish and then, wrapping him in his garment, I dragged him to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him "I have just heard this man reciting Sura Al-Furqan differently than you made me recite it yourself". - "Let him go", said the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). Then addressing Hisham, he ordered him to recite. When this one recited in the same way as I just heard, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "This is how this surah was revealed". Addressing me then, he ordered me to recite. When I recited, he said: "That is how this sura was revealed; the Quran was revealed with seven different pronunciations, recite it in the way that is easiest for you".
1355. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Gabriel made me recite the Qur'an with a certain pronunciation; to ask even more, until he had me recite it with seven different pronunciations. " Psalms of the Qur'an by avoiding acceleration and permission to recite two or more suras in the same rak'ah
1358. Narrative of 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him): Abu Wâ'il said: A man named Nahîk Ibn Sinân came to him and said: "O father of 'Abdurrahmân, how do you pronounce the last word of this verse, is it with an 'alîf or a yâ': (of never smelly water): min mâ'in ghayr 'Asin or else min mâ'in ghayr yâsin apart from that, you know all the Koran ?", said to him - "I recite all the so-called mufassal suras in a single rak'a", he said. - "So hastening as if you were reciting poetry, said to him there are people who read the Koran quickly so that it does not exceed their throats. But if it penetrates the heart and settles there, it will benefit the devotee. Bowing and prostration are the best acts of prayer and I know of similar surahs (of almost common length or meaning) of which the Prophet (peace be upon him) recited two in each rak 'at". went away, while whoever entered immediately after him, left and said: "He told me about it". What relates to the different recitations
1362. Abu 'Ishâq said: I saw a man questioning Al-'Aswad Ibn Yazid while he was teaching the Koran in the mosque: "How do you recite the last word of this verse? with a dâl or a dhâl: Is there anyone to reflect? (-to reflect-, in Arabic: Muddakir or Mudhdhakir)?" - "I pronounce it with a dâl, said Al-'Aswad, because I heard 'Abdullâh ibn Mas'ûd say that he had heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) recite it with a dâl (Muddakir )".
1364. Narrative of Abu Ad-Dardâ' (may God be pleased with him): said: When we arrived in Syria, Abu Ad-Dardâ' came to us and said: "Is there anyone among you who recite (the Koran) in the way of - "Yes, me", I replied. - How did you hear this verse recited: By the night when it envelops everything! - I had heard him recite: By the night when she envelops everything!...... - And by the male and the female!". - "Well! resumed Abou Ad-Dardâ', me by God, I heard it thus from the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him); but the people here want me to recite it thus "And by this whom He created, male and female!", but I refuse to follow them". Times when you should not pray
1367. According to 'Omar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade performing prayer after that of fajr (dawn) and until sunrise; and after the 'asr (afternoon) prayer until sunset.
1368. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Let no prayer be made after that of 'asr (the afternoon) until sunset; and after fajr (dawn) until sunrise".
1369. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Let none of you seek to make a prayer nor when the sun rises nor when he goes to bed".
1371. Narrated Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "When the disc of the sun begins to appear, delay the prayer until it appears completely. And when it begins to disappear, delay the prayer until it disappears completely." The two rak'ahs that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made after the prayer of 'asr
1377. According to Kurayb, 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abbas, 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Azhar and Al-Miswar Ibn Makhrama sent him to 'A'isha, the wife of the Prophet, saying to her: "Convey our greetings to her. and ask her about the two rak'ahs performed after the 'asr (afternoon) prayer. Add that we have been told that she prayed them both while we learned that the Prophet ( peace and blessings of God upon him) had forbidden them". ('Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb and I, we hit those who practiced these two rak'ahs, says Ibn 'Abbas (one of the transmitters of the hadith)). - "When, said Kurayb, I entered 'Aisha's house and told her of the task with which I had been entrusted, she replied to me to address myself to Oum Salama. I then went to transmit this answer to them and they then sent to Oum Salama to fulfill the same mission that I had fulfilled to 'Aisha". Oum Salama said to me: "I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) forbid these two rak'ahs; one day, I saw him perform them after having performed the 'asr prayer (after noon), he returned to my house while there were women of the Banû Harâm of the 'Ansâr and made these two rak'ahs. I immediately sent a servant, telling her to stand by his side and say to him: Oum Salama addresses you the following words: O Messenger of God, you have already forbidden to do these two rak'ahs and yet I see that you are doing them. - If he waves to you, withdraw " . The servant having carried out this order, the Prophet waved to her and she withdrew. Then, the prayer finished, the Prophet said: "O daughter of Abu 'Umayya you asked me about these two rak'ahs made after the 'asr (afternoon) prayer. Here is their reason: People some 'Abd Al-Qays, spokesmen of their tribe- came to see me, wishing to profess Islam and this prevented me from doing the two rak'ahs which follow the zhuhr (noon) prayer. two that I just made".
1378. When Abu Salama asked 'Aisha about the two rak'ahs that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) used to perform after the 'asr (afternoon) prayer, she answered: "He did them rather before this one, but if it happens that he forgets their accomplishment or finds himself preoccupied with something else, he would do them after this prayer; then he continued to accomplish them assiduously (before the prayer of 'asr), because when he made a prayer, he wanted to practice it with assiduity". Recommendation to do two rak'ahs before the maghrib (sunset) prayer
1382. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: "In the time of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), we made two (additional) rak'ahs after sunset before making the prayer of the maghrib (of sunset)". - "Did the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) do these two rak'ahs?" Asked Anas. - "He saw us praying them without enjoining us to practice them nor forbidding us either".
1383. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: "When we were in Medina, and as soon as the muezzin made the first call to prayer in the Maghrib, we rushed to the columns of the mosque to make the two rak'ahs, so that when a stranger entered the mosque, he believed that the prayer had already begun because of the large number of worshipers doing these two rak'ahs". Between the two calls, there is a prayer
1384. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mughaffal Al-Muzanî (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Between each two calls to prayer there is an additional prayer. repeated this three times, but the last time he added: "for him who wants to do it".
1385. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) says: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) presided over one of the two groups (forming his troops on an expedition) in the first rak'ah of the prayer of fear, while the other group faced the enemy.When those of the first group finished this rak'ah, they put themselves in the place of those of the second group and faced the enemy. The latter were then presided over by the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) in the second rak'a.When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made the final salutation (the taslîm), the both groups completed the prayer by performing, each in turn, the other rak'ah".
1387. Jâbir Ibn Abdoullah ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "I attended the prayer of fear presided over by the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). He put us in two rows, one of which was was right behind the Messenger (peace and blessings of God be upon him) while the enemy came between us and the Qibla. same, then he bowed and we also did the same, then he lifted his head from the bow and so did we. , they remained standing facing the enemy.When the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) finished his prostration and the men in the first row stood up, those in the second row came forward, prostrated themselves and Then the men in the second row advanced and those in the first retired. s, the Prophet (peace be upon him) bowed and we all did the same. He lifted his head from the bow and so did we. He bowed down along with the men in the second row who were behind during the first rak'ah, while the men in the other row faced the enemy. When the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) completed his prostration as well as the row immediately behind him, those in the other row prostrated. At the end, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made the final salutation (the taslîm) and we did the same". Jabir added: "It was the way your guardians watch over their sovereigns" .
1389. According to Sahl Ibn Hathma (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made, with his companions, the prayer of fear by placing them in two rows. He made a rak'ah with those in the first row, then stood up and remained like that until those in the second row made a rak'ah, then they came forward while those in the first row stepped back (to make way for them) and he made a rak'ah with them. Then he remained seated until those who stood back made a rak'ah. At the end, he gave the salutation.
1391. Jabir (may God be pleased with him) said: We accompanied the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) until we reached Dhat Ar-Riqa'. When we found a tree that gave pleasant shade, we left it to the Prophet (peace be upon him). A man of idolaters came, while the sword of the Prophet (peace be upon him) was hanging on the tree. He drew the sword of the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) and said to him: "Do you fear me?". - "No", replied the Prophet. - "And who protects you against me?". - "God protect me from you". When the companions of the Prophet (peace be upon him) threatened the man, he sheathed the sword and hung it up. The call to prayer was then made, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made two rak'ahs with one of the groups; and when the latter stepped back, he prayed two rak'ahs with the second group, so that the Prophet (peace be upon him) did four rak'ahs and each of the two groups did only two. The Authentic of Muslim 7 - Friday
1393. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "Whoever wants to attend the Friday prayer, must perform major ablution".
1395. According to 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) enjoined major ablutions.
1396. According to 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Let him who goes to Friday prayers, perform major ablutions" . Obligation for every pubescent man to wash before Friday prayers and other obligations
1397. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The major ablutions on Friday are obligatory for any pubescent person".
1398. 'A'isha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: People came in legions to the Friday prayers from their homes in Al-'Awâlî (towns around Medina), wearing cloaks and full of dust so that an unpleasant odor emanated from them. A man of them came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who, at that time, was at my house. - "If, said the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), you purify yourselves for this day". The perfume and the siwak for Friday
1401. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) mentioned what the Prophet (peace be upon him) had said about major ablutions on Friday.
1402. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "It is the right of God on every Muslim that he perform major ablutions once a week, washing the head and the body".
1403. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever, on Friday, will have done the major ablutions prescribed after the work of flesh , then goes to prayer (from the first hour) will be like one who gave alms to a fat camel. cow; whoever goes there at the third hour will be like one who gave alms from a horned ram; whoever goes there at the fourth hour will be like one who gave alms from a hen; whoever goes there at the fifth hour will be like the one who gave alms from an egg. When the imam comes out (to mount the pulpit), the angels come to listen to the evocation of God". Listen to the Friday sermon
1404. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: If, on Friday, while the imam is preaching, you say to your neighbor: "Shut up", you will thus have said a futility. About the time that is on the day of Friday
1406. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), speaking of Friday, said: "It is an hour on this day, when all will be answered Muslim worshiper who finds himself praying to God". This Community was guided to the day of Friday
1412. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "We constitute the last generation (succeeding those of the Jews and the Christians); however , we will be the first (to give an account to God) on the Day of Resurrection. Although the other communities (Jewish and Christian) received their Book before us and we received ours only after them, this day that God has prescribed for us, and towards which He has guided us, precedes those prescribed for Jews and Christians. Those have the next day (Saturday) and these have the day after tomorrow (Sunday). Friday prayer is done when the sun leaves the meridian
1422. Sahl (may God be pleased with him) said: "On Fridays, we did not take a siesta or have lunch until after prayer".
1423. Salama Ibn Al-'Akwa' (may God be pleased with him) said: "When the sun left the meridian, we performed the Friday prayer presided over by the Prophet (peace be upon him). back, we were looking for places full of shadows (walking)". The two Friday sermons and sitting between them
1425. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "On Fridays, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) first delivered the sermon while standing, then sat down and then stood up, as is currently done ". The words of God: "When they see some trade or some entertainment, they scatter there and leave you standing" Jabir Ibn 'Abdullâh (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was standing delivering the Friday sermon when a caravan arrived from Syria. People immediately rushed towards her so that there were only twelve men left with the Prophet. It was on this occasion that this verse was revealed: {When they see some trade or some entertainment, they scatter there and leave you standing}. Abridgement of Friday prayer and sermon
1439. Story Ya'lâ Ibn 'Umayya (may God be pleased with him) transmitted from his son Safwân Ibn Ya'lâ: He heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) recite in the pulpit: {and they will shout: O Mâlik} The prayer of greeting of the mosque while the imam makes his sermon
1444. Jabir Ibn 'Abdullah ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: While the Prophet (peace be upon him) was delivering the Friday sermon, a man came (late to the mosque). The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "Have you prayed (the two rak'ahs of the greeting of the mosque), oh so and so?". - "Not yet". - "Get up then, replied the Prophet and do them". What we recite on Friday
1455. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: On Friday, at the fajr (dawn) prayer, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) first recited the surah (beginning with): "'Alif, lam, mîm. The Revelation"..; then the one (beginning with): "Has it passed for man?" Additional prayers after Friday's sermon
1460. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) transmitted that on returning home after Friday prayers, he made two more rak'ahs. He added: "This is what the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was doing". The authentic of Muslim 8 - Prayers of the two festivals
1464. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I attended the prayer of fitr (performed on the day of the feast of the breaking of the fast) with the Messenger of God as well as with Abu Bakr, and Each of them did it before delivering the sermon. The transmitter added: I still seem to see the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) descending (from his pulpit) to the place where the men had taken their places and starting to walk among their ranks (to equalize them) until he arrived, accompanied by Bilâl, in the ranks of the women. When he had finished reciting this verse: O Prophet! When the Believers come to swear allegiance to you, (and swear) that they will associate nothing with God, he says (addressing the women): "Are you too?". - "Certainly yes, O Messenger of God", replied a single woman who is not known to the transmitter. - "So give alms", continued the Messenger of God. Bilâl then stretched out his garment and said: "Go ahead, let me sacrifice for you father and mother". The women began to throw on Bilâl's garment their big rings without setting and their rings.
1466. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "On the day of the feast of the breaking of the fast, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) got up and began by making the prayer before delivering the sermon When the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had finished his preaching to the faithful, he descended (from the minbar) and went to the women, leaning on the hand of Bilâl. He exhorted them (to do the good); and Bilâl to spread out his garment so that the women throw their alms into it".
1468. Ibn Jurayj said: 'Atâ' transmitted to me that Ibn 'Abbas and Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh Al-Ansâri had said: "There was no call to prayer nor on the day of the feast of the breaking of the fast, nor to that of the feast of the sacrifice". When I questioned him later on the same subject, he repeated to me: "Jâbir Ibn 'Abdoullâh Al-Ansâri transmitted to me that on the day of the feast of the breaking of the fast, one did not make a first call to the prayer before the imam comes to the mosque, nor after his arrival. Likewise, there is no second call or any kind of call or anything".
1471. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Prophet, Abu Bakr and performed the prayer of 'Id (made on the occasion of the two festivals) before delivering the sermon".
1472. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him), When when the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went to the mosque on the first day of the feast of the sacrifice or from that of breaking the fast, it began with prayer. When he finished it and made the taslîm (the final salutation), he stood facing the faithful seated in the places of prayer. If he thought of making an expedition, he informed the people, and if there was anything else, he ordered them to do so. He often repeated: "Give alms!" -it was the women who gave the most alms- then he left. Permission for women to go to the mosque to listen to the sermon, separating from men
1473. 'Umm 'Atiyya ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) commanded us to bring out on the first day of the two festivals the nubiles and the virgins hidden from view to go to the mosque. However, he ordered indisposed women to stay away from the oratory of the Muslims". Permission to engage in certain games on the day of the holiday
1479. 'A'isha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: Abu Bakr came to my house while I had two young maidservants of the 'Ansar who sang while repeating the poems of their tribe inspired by the battle of Bu'âth. These two girls weren't singing. Abu Bakr then exclaimed: "What! Devilish songs in the house of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)!". It was a feast day, and the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "O Abu Bakr, each community has a feast and it is ours".
1485. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: While the Abyssinians were playing with their javelins in the presence of the Prophet (peace be upon him), 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb came. When he was about to pick up some small pebbles to stone them, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him, "Leave them." The Authentic of Muslim 9 - Prayer for Solicitation of Rain
1486. 'Abdullâh Ibn Zayd Al-Mazini (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went to the mosque to make the prayer of requesting rain (al-' astisqâ'). When he directed his face to the Qibla, he put his shawl upside down (a sign of auspiciousness and an omen of the change of weather)". Raising your hands calling for rain
1490. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: "I saw the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) raising his hands in invocation so that one could see the white of his armpits". Invocation to request the rain
1493. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), one Friday, a man entered the mosque through the door known as Al-Qadâ', while the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was standing delivering the sermon. The man went to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God, goods have been wiped out and we are at the end of our resources; invoke God so that He send rain". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then raised his two hands and said three times: "Lord, let the rain fall!". - By God! At that moment, Anas added, we saw neither cloud nor mist in the sky, so much so that nothing hid the mountain of Sal' from our view, be it a house or a dwelling. Immediately a cloud like a shield rose from behind this mountain. When this cloud reached the middle of the sky, it spread out, then turned into rain. By God! We didn't see the sun for a long time. The following Friday, a man entered (into the mosque) through the same door, while the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was standing delivering the sermon. The man went to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God, goods have been wiped out and we are at the end of our resources; call on God to do stop the rain". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) raised his hands and invoked: "Lord (make it rain) around us, not on us; Lord (make it rain) on the mounds, on hills, valleys and plantations!". Immediately the cloud carrying rain dissipated and we went out to walk in the sun. Asking for God's protection when the wind blows or when clouds appear and rejoicing when it rains
1495. 'Aisha, the wife of the Prophet ( رضي الله عنها ) said: When it was windy or misty, it was recognized by the expression on the (darkened) face of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). ) who began to come and go. But when it rained, it calmed down and his anxiety faded. As I asked him the reason, he replied, "O Aisha, I am afraid it will be a punishment inflicted on my community." And when he saw the rain, he said, "It is a mercy." The two winds: "As-Sabâ" and "Ad-Dabûr"
1498. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: I was assisted by the east wind "As-Sabâ", while was destroyed by the wind from west "Ad-Dabûr". The Authentic of Muslim 10 - Eclipses Prayer During Eclipses of the Sun
1499. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: In the time of the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) the sun was eclipsed. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) got up to pray and stood for a long time. He then bowed for a long time, raised his head and remained standing for a long time, but less than the first time. He made another bow which he made last less than the first. Then he bowed down, got up and remained standing for a shorter time than the first time, then he bowed and remained so for a long time but less than the first time, then he raised his head and remained standing for a shorter time than the first time, then he made a shorter bow than the first time, finally he prostrated himself and made the final salutation when the sun had already cleared. He gave a sermon to the faithful, praised God, proclaimed His merits and said: "The sun and the moon are signs of God. They do not eclipse because of the death or birth of anyone. When you see a eclipse, make takbîr, invoke God, pray and give alms. O Community of Muhammad, no one feels jealousy more than God when His worshiper and His worshiper fornicate. O Community of Muhammad, by God! if you knew what I know, you would have cried often and laughed rarely. I conveyed".
1503. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made during two rak'ahs four bows and four prostrations. What Was Revealed About Heaven and Hell to the Prophet (peace be upon him) by Praying the Eclipse Prayer
1509. According to Fatima, Asma ( رضي الله عنها ) said: The sun was eclipsed at the time of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). I went to find 'Aisha who was praying. - "What do the faithful have? Why do they pray?" I asked him. She nodded her head to the sky. - "Is this a sign?", I say. She nodded in affirmation. And me to take part in the prayer. However, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) stood for a long time. As I was on the verge of fainting, I began to draw water from a skin beside me and poured it over my head and my face. When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) finished the prayer, the sun had already cleared. Addressing the faithful, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said, after having praised God and proclaimed His merits: "From my place, I could see everything even what I have never seen, even Heaven and Hell. It was revealed to me that you would be tried in your graves, in the same way or almost, -it is not known which of these two expressions Asma used- that you would be tried by the Antichrist. Each of you was asked: "What do you know of this man (Muhammad)? The Believer or the faithful -we do not know which of these two terms Asma used- , will answer: "It is Muhammad who is the Messenger of God and who brought the proofs (of his mission) and the right direction. We believed in him and followed him". To this question asked three times, the Believer will insist on his answer. - "Sleep in peace, for we are sure that you believe in the Prophet", he will be told. As for the hypocrite or the hesitant - we do not know which of these two terms Asma used - he will say: “I do not know who it is; I only repeated what I heard people say". Call to prayer of the eclipses: "Prayer in common"
1515. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr Ibn Al-'As ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "When in the time of the Prophet (peace be upon him) there was an eclipse of the sun, a summons was made to a community prayer. The Prophet (peace be upon him) made two bows in one rak'ah, then stood up, then made two bows again in another rak'ah. then released".
1516. According to Abu Mas'ûd Al-Ansâri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Certainly, the sun and the moon are two signs of God who warn His worshippers. They do not disappear on the occasion of anyone's death. When you see an eclipse, pray and call upon God until He appeases you."
1518. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) at the time of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), there was an eclipse of the sun. This one (peace and blessings of God on him) then got up frightened, fearing that it was the Supreme Hour. He went to the mosque and began to pray, prolonging his stations, his bows and his prostrations more than I had ever seen him do, then he said: "These signs that God sends never occur on occasion of anyone's death or birth, but rather God sends them to warn His worshippers. When you see them, hasten to call on God and implore Him and ask Him for forgiveness."
1521. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) transmits these words according to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "Neither the sun nor the moon is eclipsed because of death or life of anyone. They are rather signs of God. Pray, when you see them".
1522. Al-Mughîra Ibn Chu'ba (may God be pleased with him) said: In the time of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), there was an eclipse of the sun on the day when his son died 'Ibrahim. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said: "The sun and the moon are two signs among the signs of God, they are not eclipsed because of the death or the life of anyone. When you see an eclipse, pray and call on God until it ends.” The Authentic of Muslim 11 - Funeral Weeping over the Dead
1531. Usâma Ibn Zayd ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: We were at the house of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) when a messenger came from one of his daughters to fetch him and announce to him that the son of she was in agony. Addressing the Messenger, the Prophet said to her: "Return to my daughter and announce to her that everything God takes or gives belongs to Him, that He has fixed a term for everything and urge her to resign herself and to rely on God". The messenger returned and said to her: She begs thee to come to her. Immediately the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) got up and went to her house, accompanied by Sa'd Ibn 'Ubâda and Mu'âdh Ibn Jabal, and myself, continues 'Usâma. When he arrived, they gave him the child who was groaning loudly. When the Prophet had tears in his eyes, Sa'd said to him: "O Messenger of God, what is it?". - "It is, he replied, compassion that God has placed in the hearts of His worshippers. God is Compassionate only towards the compassionate among His worshippers".
1532. 'Abdoullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: Sa'd Ibn 'Ubâda fell ill, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came to visit him accompanied by Abdurrahmân Ibn 'Awf, of Sa'd Ibn 'Abî Waqqâs and 'Abdoullâh Ibn Mas'oud. When he entered, he found the sick man passed out, surrounded by his family. - "Has he breathed his last?" he asked. - "No, O Messenger of God", they answered him. Then the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) began to cry, and those present, seeing the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) crying, all burst into tears. Then he continued: "Have you not heard that God will not punish either for the tears that the eyes shed, nor for the sadness of the heart. But He will punish - or show mercy - according to the use that one will have made of this," and he pointed to his tongue. Enduring misfortune at the first shock
1534. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The (true) resignation consists in bearing the first shock of an affliction". Torment of the dead when his own cry over him
1536. It is reported (may God be pleased with him) that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The dead (who recommended his family to lament at his death) will be punished because of groans pushed by his own".
1543. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abi Mulayka said: 'Amr Ibn 'Uthmân and I were sitting at Ibn 'Umar's, awaiting the arrival of the funeral procession of ' Umm 'Aban bint 'Uthman. Ibn 'Abbâs arrived in the company of a guide who pointed out the place of Ibn 'Umar. So he came to sit on my side in such a way that I was between the two men (Ibn 'Omar and Ibn 'Abbâs). We then heard screams emanating from the house. Then 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar, proposing to 'Amr Ibn 'Uthmân to get up to stop these groans: "I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say that the dead will be punished because lamentations shed by his own". 'Abdullâh issued this judgment without reservations. Ibn 'Abbas then replied: We were in the company of the Emir of the Believers 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb. When we reached a desert between Medina and Mecca, he noticed a man sitting in the shade of a tree. - "Go and see who this man is", ordered me. I found Suhayb there and returned to 'Umar to tell him that it was Suhayb. - "Go and tell him to accompany us". - "His family is with him". - "Even if his family is with him, tell him to accompany us" (perhaps he said it according to 'Ayyûb). Later, when he was fatally beaten, Suhayb came to him crying and shouting: "Ah! My brother! Ah! My friend!". then said to him: "Do you not know - or have you not heard, according to 'Ayyûb - the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: The dead will be punished because of certain groans pushed by his own (on his recommendation)". thus issued an unqualified judgment, while adding that it was a question of certain cases only. I went to 'A'isha and told her what Ibn 'Umar had said. - "By God! the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) never said that the dead will be punished because of the tears shed by anyone. But he said rather that God will increase the punishment of the disbeliever because of the tears that his family shed at his death". It is enough to remember these words of the Koran: and that it is He who made laugh and who made cry, And no one will bear the burden of others.
1549. Al-Mughîra Ibn Chu'ba (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "All the dead will be punished on the Day of Resurrection by the groans uttered by his own at his death". Moaning severity
1551. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: When the Prophet (peace be upon him) heard the news of the death of Ibn Hâritha, Ja'far ibn 'Abi Talib and 'Abdullâh Ibn Rawâha, he sat down all chagrined. As I was looking through the crack in the door, a man came to the Prophet and said, "O Messenger of God! The women of the house of Ja'far mourn. The Prophet (peace be upon him) told him to go and silence them. The man left, then returned to say that they had not obeyed him. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) again ordered him to go. silence them." The man came back again saying, "By God! O Messenger of God, we cannot silence them". According to 'A'isha, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said to him: "Go and silence them by any means even in the mouth". 'Aisha adds: "I say to the man: May God humble you! By God, you did not do what the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) commanded you to do and you did not rid the Messenger (peace and blessings of God be upon him) of his concern".
1552. 'Umm 'Atiyya ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "When we took an oath to the Prophet (peace be upon him) he made us swear not to groan. their commitment: 'Umm Sulaym, 'Umm Al-'Alâ', the daughter of Abu Sabra, who is the wife of Mu'âdh, - or the daughter of Abu Sabra and the wife of Mu'âdh". Ban on women following the funeral procession
1555. 'Umm 'Atiyya ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "It was forbidden for us to follow the funeral processions, without however this prohibition being of rigor". washing of the dead
1557. 'Umm 'Atiyya ( رضي الله عنها ) said: The Messenger of God (peace be upon him) entered while we were washing the corpse of his daughter. He tells us: "Wash it three or five times, or even more if you think it useful, with water mixed with jujube. During the last washing, mix camphor with the water - or a little camphor. Then when you're done, let me know." And we called him when we were done. He then gave us his loincloth ('izâr) saying: "Cover his body with it". Shroud of the dead
1562. According to Khabbâb Ibn Al-'Arat (may God be pleased with him), We emigrated with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) without having any other goal in view than to please God, and that it is up to Him to reward us for it. Some of us died without having tasted this reward (in this lower world), such as Mus'ab Ibn 'Umayr who was killed in the battle of 'Uhud. To bury him, we found nothing but a "burda" (man's robe of striped woolen cloth) which was so short that if you covered his head with it, his feet remained uncovered, and vice versa. Then the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) gave the order to cover the head of the deceased and to place on his feet Idhkhir (a kind of aromatic plant). Others, however, saw the fruits of their reward ripen here below and were able to pick them.
1563. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was buried in three pieces of white cotton cloth without there being any shirt or turban. As for the "hulla" (man's robe) which people believed was bought especially to bury the Prophet, it was left and the deceased was buried in the three white cotton cloths. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abi Bakr took the "hulla" saying: "I will keep it to use as a shroud". Then he reconsidered his decision and said: "If God, to Himself the power and the glory, wanted her for His Prophet, this one would have been buried". He then sold it and spent its price on alms. cover the dead
1566. According to 'A'isha, the mother of the Believers ( رضي الله عنها ), "When he died, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was buried in a robe adorned with linen or cotton". Walking at a brisk pace in funeral processions
1568. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Take a fast pace carrying the coffin. If the deceased was a good man, it is good that you will do him by burying him so quickly; if he was not, you will relieve your shoulders of an evil". Merit of praying the funeral prayer and following the funeral procession
1570. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever follows a funeral procession until he participates in the funeral prayer , will acquire a qîrât (reward), and whoever follows him to his burial, will acquire two qîrât". As the Prophet was asked what was the value of these two qîrât, he replied: "They are equivalent to two enormous mountains".
1575. According to the freedman of the Prophet, Thawbân (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever participates in a mortuary prayer will acquire a qîrât (reward), and if he also attends his burial, he will acquire two qîrât. The qîrât is equivalent to the mountain of 'Uhud". The dead who deserve praise and those who deserve blame
1578. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), Passing by a funeral procession and hearing the men praising the dead, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said three times: "He is guaranteed to him". Passing by another convoy and hearing the men speak ill of the deceased, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) repeated three times: "It is assured to him". said to him: "That I sacrifice for you father and mother! Why when we passed by a funeral procession and you heard the people praising the deceased, you repeated three times: "He is assured to him". And when we passed by another convoy where people were speaking ill of the deceased, you said three times: "He is assured". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) answered: the one you have praised, Paradise is assured; to that other of whom you have spoken ill, Hell is assured. You are God's witnesses on earth. You are God's witnesses on earth. You are the witnesses of God on earth". The delivered and the one from whom one is delivered
1579. According to Abu Qatâda Ibn Rib'î (may God be pleased with him), a funeral procession passing near the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the latter said: "There are who is delivered, and there are some from whom one is delivered". - "Who is the delivered and who is the one from whom we are delivered, O Messenger of God?", he was asked. - "The Believing Servant, he replied, is delivered from the sorrows of this world; as for the perverse Servant, everyone will be delivered: men, countries, trees and animals". The "takbîr" in the funeral prayer
1580. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) announced to the faithful the death of the Negus on the very day it took place. He then brought them together at the mosque where he pronounced the takbîr (say [Allahu akbar]) four times.
1582. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdoullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), making the funeral prayer on' Ashama the Negus, pronounced the takbir four times. Prayer at the tomb
1586. 'Abdoullâh Ibn' Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) takbîr ".
1588. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) noticed the absence of a black woman - or a young man - who was loaded ( e) to clean the mosque. When he inquired about her -or him-, and was informed that she -or he- is dead, he said, "Why didn't you tell me about her death? ?". Abu Hurayra added: "They seemed to care little about it." - "Show me his grave", he told them. They showed it to him, and the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went there to make the mortuary prayer, then he said: "Darkness is thickening around the inhabitants of these tombs, God - to He, the power and the glory - will illuminate them through the prayer I have just made". Stand up when a funeral procession passes
1590. According to 'Amir Ibn Rabî'a (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When you see a funeral procession passing, get up and stay like that until until he has passed you or the coffin is deposited (on the ground or in the grave)".
1591. Abu Sa'id (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "When you follow a funeral procession, never sit down before the coffin is deposited (on the ground or in the grave)".
1596. The Narrative of Qays Ibn Sa'd and Sahl Ibn Hunayf ( رضي الله عنهما ), According to Ibn Abu Laylâ, Qays Ibn Sa'd and Sahl Ibn Hunayf were once sitting in Al-Qâdisiyya when a funeral procession passed by them. As they got up, they were told: "It is the convoy of a man of the country (that is to say, of a tributary). - The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), replied -they, rose in front of a funeral procession which passed in front of him, and when it was pointed out to him that it was that of a Jew, he replied: "Isn't it a question of a soul!" the imam when he makes the funeral prayer
1602. According to Samura Ibn Jundub (may God be pleased with him), I made behind the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) the funeral prayer on 'Umm Ka'b who had died in childbirth. During the prayer, the Prophet (peace be upon him) stood in front of the middle of the corpse. The Authentic of Muslim 12 - Legal Alms
1625. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "No legal alms to be taken on an amount less than five "wasq " (measure equivalent to 60 sâ' of dates or other), nor to five "zawd" (troop of 3 to 10 camels), nor to five ounces (forty dirhams of silver). The Muslim must not pay alms legal on his slave or his horse
1631. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A Muslim should not pay legal alms, neither for his horse, nor for his slave" . Payment of legal alms or abstention from paying it
1634. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God instructed to collect legal alms. It is said: "Ibn Jamîl, Khâlid Ibn Al-Walîd and Al-'Abbâs, the uncle of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) refrained from paying it". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said: "What had Ibn Jamîl to disregard the providential grace after God had enriched him. But Khalid! You are only oppressing Khalid He made his shields and his military equipment a legacy for the love of God. As for Al-'Abbas, I pay the alms in his place and once as much". Then addressing "O Didn't you notice that the man's uncle is like his father?". Zakâ al-Fitr (legal alms given on breaking the fast) in dates and barley
1635. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) fixed the legal alms for breaking the fast (Zakâ al-fitr) at a sâ' (a quarter of a liter of grain) of dates or a sâ' of barley taxable to each free person or slave, man or woman.
1640. Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him) said: We give as legal alms for breaking the fast (Zakâ al-fitr), a sâ' (a quarter of a liter of grain) of wheat, barley, dates, cottage cheese ('aqit) or raisins. Obligation to perform Zaka al-Fitr before prayer
1645. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered to fulfill the legal alms of breaking the fast (Zakâ al-fitr) before the faithful do not come to the (feast) prayer. The sin committed by one who does not pay legal alms (Az-Zakâ)
1647. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "No man who hoards gold or silver without paying alms legal, on the Day of Resurrection, metal plates made hot in the fire of Gehenna will be applied to his side, forehead and back, and as soon as they cool they will be made hot again, and he will be applied for a day of fifty thousand years, until the accounts of men are settled. He will then see the destiny which has been reserved for him: Paradise or Hell". It was asked, "O Messenger of God! If goods were camels?" He answered: "The same thing for the owner of the camels who does not pay the legal alms of them which consists in distributing a little of their milk the day when it leads them to the trough. On the Day of Resurrection, it will be thrown to the ground and all his camels will be brought without even a single camel missing. They will trample him with their hooves and bite him. They will trample him in a continual back and forth motion and this will last a day of fifty thousand years. , until the accounts of the Servants are settled. He will then see the destiny that has been reserved for him: Heaven or Hell". Then it was asked, "What then of the fate of the possessor of cows and sheep?" The Messenger of God answered: "The same thing for the owner of cows and sheep who does not pay the legal alms. On the Day of Resurrection, he will be thrown to the ground and all his cattle will be brought without exception. None of them will have bent horns, or be dehorned, or have split ears!These animals will attack him with their horns and trample him underfoot in a continual back and forth, and this will last a day of fifty thousand years, until the accounts of the Servers are settled. He will then see the destiny which has been reserved for him: Paradise or Hell." It was asked again, "What about the owner of the horses, O Messenger of God?" He replied: "Horses are of three categories: they represent a sin for one man, a rampart for another and a reward for a third. The horse is a sin for its owner, when he intends it out of vanity and ostentation. to attack the Muslims. The horse is a rampart for its owner, when the latter intends it to serve in the path of God, without neglecting to pay God's due either by giving it to a fighter (for the cause of God) the right to use it, or by paying legal alms. The horse is a reward for its owner, when he consecrates it to Muslims to use it in the cause of God by tying it within a meadow or a garden, as much as the horse eats from this pasture, as much as the man accumulates good deeds, the amount of these will even increase according to the quantity of dung and urine of the horse. animal.Even though these horses will come off their long halters and run at a long pace a hill or more, God will enroll their owner with good deeds equivalent to the number of their tracks and dung. And when their owner passes by a river, and these horses drink there, even if he did not intend to water them, God will write down good deeds for him equal to the amount of the water drunk. Finally, they asked: “O Messenger of God! What about donkeys?" He replied, "God has not revealed anything to me about them except this exceptional and exhaustive verse: Whoever does good even of the weight of an atom will see it, and whoever does an evil even of the weight of an atom, will see it". Harshness of the punishment of the one who refuses the Zaka
1653. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "I will not be happy if I have gold as much as the mountain of 'Uhud and that in the third night, I still have a dinar, except in case it was kept for me to pay a debt". Those who hoard fortunes and the harshness of their punishment
1656. From Abu Dharr (may Allah be pleased with him): Al-'Ahnaf Ibn Qays said: I went to Medina and while I was sitting among a group of Quraysh, there came a man rude in features, appearance and clothes. He addressed them saying: "Announcement to the hoarders (of goods and fortunes which do not fulfill legal alms) that they will be made red in the fire of Gehenna to punish them for the stones which are will apply to the nipple of each of them, which will be left there until it penetrates the collarbone of his shoulder; and which will then be placed on his collarbone until it penetrates his nipple; this which will make him tremble". Having said that, people nodded without saying a word. As for the man, he went away and I followed him. He settled down near a pillar. I said to him: "I believe that these people took in horror what you had said to them". - "These do not understand anything. My friend, Abou Al-Qâsim (peace and blessings of God on him) called me one day and said to me: "Do you see the mount 'Uhud? sun (to know the hour), because I thought that he (peace and blessings of God be upon him) wanted to entrust me with some mission, and I answered: “Yes, I see him.” - “Ah! he continued, I would not be happy to possess a quantity of gold equal to the mountain of 'Uhud, except to spend it all on alms and keep only three dinars. And now these people, added Abou Dharr, are bent on amassing the goods of here below without thinking". I then said to him: "Why don't you ask your Quraysh co-religionists for money? ". - "No, by God! I will never ask them for temporal goods or explain their religion to them until I go to join God and His Messenger". Encouragement to spend the money and the compensation that the one who does it will receive
1658. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "God, the Exalted and the Most High, said: "O son of Adam, spend (in alms) and I will compensate you". Then he continued: "The hand of God is full of gifts and blessings to overflow, - according to Ibn Numayr - no expense, even if it lasted night and day, could not exhaust it. ". You have to start by spending the money to support yourself, your family and your loved ones.
1663. According to Jabir (may God be pleased with him): A man of the 'Udhra tribe promised freedom to his slave after his death. This came to the knowledge of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) who asked the man: "Do you have any other good?" - "No", answered the man - "Who wants to buy it?", said the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) addressing the faithful. Na'îm Ibn 'Abdoullâh Al-'Adawî bought it for eight hundred dirhams. He brought the sum to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who had given it to the man, saying to him: "Begin by giving charity to yourself, if there is anything left. , spend it for the benefit of your family, if there is still some left, spend it for the benefit of your loved ones, finally if there is still some left, spend it here and there". He wanted to say: "To the needy who surround you right and left." Merit of spending money and giving alms to relatives, wife, children and parents even if they were polytheists
1664. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: “Abou Talha was the richest of all the 'Ansâr of Medina. in front of the mosque. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) often entered there to drink its sweet water. Anas, adds: At the revelation of the following verse: You will not attain (true) piety only if you make largesse from what you cherish. Abu Talha went to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God, God said in the Koran: You will not reach the (true) pity only if you make largesse of what you cherish. Now, of all my possessions, the one to which I hold the most is Bayrahâ; I make alms of it for the face of God; hoping that it will be reckoned to me as a good work and added to my account with Him. O Messenger of God, dispose of this palm grove as you see fit". - "How marvelous it is!, replied the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), it is fruitful good! It is a fruitful good! I heard what you said, but I suggest that you donate it for the benefit of your loved ones". And Abou Talha to share it between his close relatives and his paternal cousins.
1666. Maymûna bint Al-Hârith ( رضي الله عنها ) transmitted that she had freed a woman slave in the time of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). As she told him what she had done, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to her: "Well! If you had given it to your maternal uncles, it would have earned you a better reward".
1667. According to Zaynab ( رضي الله عنها ): The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said, addressing women: "Women! Give alms, even with your jewelry". I returned home and said to -my husband-: "You are a poor man and the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has just ordered us to give alms. Go and ask him if he It is possible for me to give you charity; otherwise I will give it to someone else". He answered me: "It is better that you go yourself to ask him that". Zaynab continued: I went to the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) and found at his door a woman from the 'Ansar who had come for the same reason. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had a majestic and impressive appearance. It was Bilâl who received us and we said to him: "Go to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and inform him that there are two women at his door and that they would like to know if they were allowed to give alms to their husbands and to the orphans who are in their care, and above all do not communicate our identity to him". Bilâl entered the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and told him our question. He asked her, "Who are they?" - "A woman of the 'Ansar, he replied, and Zaynab". - "Which of the Zaynab?", he asked. - "The wife of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "They will thus have two rewards: that of maintaining the family bond, and that of giving alms".
1668. Oum Salama ( رضي الله عنها ) transmitted that she had asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "O Messenger of God! Will I be rewarded if I spend for the sons of Abu Salama who are my children, although it is not my duty to do so?!". He replied: "As much as you spend on them, as much as you will be rewarded".
1669. According to Abu Mas'ûd Al-Badri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "All money that the Muslim spends for the maintenance of his family, not aiming nothing but the reward of God will be reckoned to him for alms".
1670. According to Asma ( رضي الله عنها ): I asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "O Messenger of God! My mother (who was a polytheist) came to me in the desire to restore our family ties. Should I display filial piety to him?". He replied: "Certainly yes". Reward of the dead in whose name alms is given
1672. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), a man came to ask the Prophet (peace be upon him): "My mother suffered a sudden death and she had no time to test. I believe that if she had time, she should have given alms. If I give alms in her name, will she be rewarded?" - "Yes", replied the Prophet. Any charitable action is considered as alms
1676. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Every Muslim is required to give alms". - "But, we objected, and if he does not find (money) to do it?". - "Let him work with his hands, answered the Prophet, to earn his living and give alms". - "But if he can't?". - "Let him lend a helping hand to a needy victim of an affliction". - "And if he can't either?". - "While he advocates the good". - "What if he doesn't?". - "Let him abstain from doing evil, which will be counted as alms to him".
1677. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Every day, at every sunrise, man must give alms equivalent to the joints of his body. To judge fairly between two people is alms; to help a man to straddle his horse or to load it with his luggage is alms; the good word is alms; everything not done to go to prayer is alms; to remove some harmful object from the path is alms". He who spends and gives alms and he who refrains from doing so
1678. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: In the morning of each day, two angels descend from heaven. One said, "O Lord! Compensate the giver of alms." - "O Lord! Inflict a loss on him who refrains from giving alms", said the other. Encouragement to give alms before the day comes when it would no longer be accepted
1679. According to Hâritha Ibn Wahb (may God be pleased with him), I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: Give alms (now), for a time will come when man, wanting to do a charity, will be rejected, by the one who is supposed to need it, in these terms: "If you had offered it to me yesterday, I would have accepted it, but today I have no need for it. "man of charity will not find anyone in need".
1680. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There will be a time when man, wanting to give alms in gold, will find no one who please accept it. We will then see the man followed by forty women who will take refuge near him; what the men will be very few compared to the women".
1681. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Supreme Hour will not take place until the money is abundant and overflowing , that man, wanting to pay legal alms, finds no one to accept it; and that the territory of the Arabs does not turn into orchards where rivers flow". Alms given with lawful money is accepted and fruitful by God
1684. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "All alms made from lawful money - and God only accepts lawful -, will fall into the right hand of the Merciful. Even if it were a date, it would increase in the palm of the hand of the Merciful until it became even greater than a mountain, such as a colt or a camel does not grow". Encouragement to give alms be it half a date or a good word, alms passing for a shield against the fire of Hell
1687. 'Adyy Ibn Hatim (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Prophet (peace be upon him) say these words: "Avoid Hell as much as possible, were it this by giving alms with half a date". The bearer giving alms with the income from his work. Formal prohibition to denigrate those who give alms of a modest sum
1692. Abou Mas'ûd (may God be pleased with him) said: When alms were prescribed to us, we were working as porters (to earn enough to do it). Then Abou 'Aqîl gave alms of half a sâ' (measurement of grains among the Medinans, equivalent to eight handfuls), while another person came to give alms greater than him. - "God, said the hypocrites, will certainly do without the alms of the first. As for the second, he only gave it out of ostentation". Such was the occasion of the revelation of this verse: Those who direct their calumnies against the Believers who give voluntary alms and against those who find only their weak means (to offer)... Merit of the "Maniha"
1693. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Will be amply rewarded whoever lends a family a good dairy camel (Maniha) who , every morning, give a bowl and, every evening, another".
1694. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever lends a good milkmaid "maniha", will receive a reward equivalent to the milk she gives mornings and evenings". Parable of the one who spends (in alms) and of the one who abstains
1695. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The miser and the charitable are comparable to two men who each wear a coat of mail which squeezes their chests. When the charitable wants to give alms, his coat expands. While when the miser wants to do it, the mesh of his coat shrinks so that his hands join together. , and that the traces of his footsteps are erased". Abu Hurayra added: And although the latter strives to enlarge his coat, he will not be able to do so anymore". Alms, even if given to those who do not deserve it, will be rewarded by God.
1698. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: One night a man decides to give alms. He then goes and hands her over to the hand of a prostitute. The next day, people are surprised at this alms given to a prostitute. The man then said: "O Lord! Praise You for this alms that You made me give to a prostitute; I will give another alms". He is going to place his alms in the hand of a rich man. The next day, people were surprised at this alms given to a wealthy man. The (charitable) man then said: "O Lord! Praise You for this alms that You made me give to a rich man. I will give another alms". Then he will place his alms in the hand of a thief. The next day people were surprised at this alms given to a thief. The man then said: "O Lord! Praise be to You who made me give alms to a prostitute, to a rich man and to a thief". This man saw in a dream someone saying to him: "Your alms are accepted. It may be that the alms given to the prostitute will spare him carnal sin; that the alms given to the rich, will serve as a lesson to him and will push him to follow your example and to spend part of the goods that God has granted him; and that which is given to the thief, will spare him theft". Reward of the servant and the wife giving alms by using, without prodigality, the goods of the house with the explicit or implicit authorization of the head of the family
1699. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The honest Muslim depositary who executes -or who gives the person designated to him-, what is ordered to him in an integral, complete and willing manner, is considered one of those who give alms".
1700. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When the woman gives alms from her house without waste, she will have a reward Her husband will also have his share of the reward since he is the one who acquired this property. The depositary will also have his share, without however the reward of one diminishing that of the other two".
1704. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A woman should not start an (additional) fast in the presence of her husband only with his permission. Nor should she receive anyone in her home except with his permission. As for the alms she gives with her money and without her permission, he will have half of their rewards." The one who collected alms and good deeds
1705. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him): The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever has spent a pair of anything in the way of God, will be so called to Paradise: "O worshiper of God, this is a good deed!". Whoever insisted on praying, will be called by the door of prayer. Whoever wanted to do jihad, will be called by the door of jihad . Whoever wanted to give alms, will be called by the door of alms. Whoever practiced fasting assiduously, will be called by the door called Ar-Rayyân ". Abu Bakr As-Siddiq having asked: "Will there be any inconvenience in not being called by all these doors, and will there be someone who will be called by all these doors at the same time, O Messenger of God?". - "I hope, replied the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), that you will be among the latter". Encouragement to give alms and prohibition to account for one's expenses
1708. According to Asma bint 'Abi Bakr ( رضي الله عنها ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "Spend on alms, make donations and be charitable. Do not skimp lest God return you not impecunious". Encouragement to give alms even when giving small amounts of money
1711. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "O Muslim women! that of a sheep's hoof". Merit of alms given in secret
1712. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Seven people will be under the shadow of God on the Day when there will be no more shadow than His: the equitable sovereign; the young man who has extinguished the ardor of his youth in the adoration of God; the man whose heart is attached to the mosques (who insists on going there and waiting there prayer); two men who, loving each other in God, come together for God and separate according to His decree (by death); the man who refuses the invitation to fornication offered by a beautiful woman of high birth, saying, "I fear God"; the man who gives alms in secret to the point that his right hand does not know what his left hand has just spent; and the man, in spiritual retreat, who invokes God and has, out of tenderness, tears in his eyes". The best alms is that given by the sane and miserly man
1713. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), a man came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God! What is the best alms?". - "The one, he replied, made while you are still in perfect health, parsimonious, fearing poverty and aspiring to wealth. Do not wait for the moment of your agony to say: This is for so-and-so and that is for so-and-so. , for everything will henceforth belong to your heirs". The highest hand is better than the lowest hand. The highest is the one who gives, the lowest is the one who receives
1715. From 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ): While in the pulpit sermonizing about charity and refraining from acquiring illicit goods or begging, the Messenger of God ( peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The hand above is better than the hand below. The first is that which gives and the second is that which receives".
1716. According to Hakîm Ibn Hizâm (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The best alms is that given with superfluous goods. The hand above is better than the hand below. Spend first on those that are your responsibility". No begging
1719. According to Mu'awiya (may God be pleased with him), I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "I am only the guardian of the Public Treasury. What I give of good will to someone, be blessed to him. As for the one who covets a good and asks me for it, he is like the glutton who eats without ever being satisfied. The destitute who cannot support himself and is recognized by no one as having the right to alms
1722. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: “The needy are not those who ask people for charity; a bite or two of food or a date or two". - "Who is the needy, O Messenger of God?", he was asked. - "He is, answered the Prophet, the one who does not find wealth to spare himself the need; of whom one does not realize his need to give him alms, and who abstains from asking people" . It is reprehensible to beg
1724. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who keeps asking people met God, on the Day of Resurrection, with a emaciated face ".
1727. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him): I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "It would be better for one of you to go early to pick up wood and carry the logs on their backs in order to give alms and to remain free from want, rather than asking for charity from someone who can give it to him or refuse it. the hand that gives is much better than the hand that receives. First provide for those who are in your care". Alms can be received by those who neither asked nor coveted it
1731. According to 'Omar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him): When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) gave me a gift, I said to him: "Give it to someone who needs it more than I do." One day, he gave me some money, and as I repeated to him: "Give it to someone more needy than me", the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to me : "Take it, and whenever something good comes to you without you asking for it or eagerly desiring it, accept it. Otherwise, do not try to acquire it". Contempt to be greedy of the here below
1734. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him): I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "The heart of the old man does not cease to cling passionately to two things: longevity and the love of wealth". If the son of Adam had two valleys, he would covet a third
1737. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If the son of Adam had two valleys full of riches, he would have desired to acquire a third. death will not put an end to his lust. And God accepts the repentance of the repentant".
1739. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "Even if he had money as much as the content of a valley , the son of Adam would have desired to acquire another. Nothing but death will reduce his lust. And God accepts the repentance of the repentant". Wealth does not consist in the abundance of goods
1741. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Wealth does not consist in the abundance of goods; rather, it is that of 'soul". Redoubt of the splendors of the world
1742. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), delivering a sermon one day, said: "Certainly, by God! I do not fear for yourselves, O people, but the splendors that God provides for you in this low world". A man then asked: "O Messenger of God! Can good bring evil?" The Prophet (peace be upon him) was silent for a while; then having asked the man to repeat his question, answered: "Good brings only good. But is it really good (it is rather a temptation)? (As a example), anything that grows in the spring runs the risk of causing death by meteorism (from having eaten too much of it) or at least of harming health. Only the herbivorous animal will escape this danger. the grass until he is full, he lies in the sun and when he drops or urinates, then chews the grass, he can graze again. He who uses the riches (of this world) fairly will keep the blessing. who uses it unjustly, he will be like one who eats without ever being satisfied". Merit of chastity and patience
1745. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), some people from the 'Ansar came to ask for alms from the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). When he gave it to them, they asked for it again. And the Prophet to continue to give them until the exhaustion of his resources. “Whatever property I possess, the Prophet then said to them, I will not lay it aside to deprive you of it. Yet whoever refrains from acquiring illicit property or asking alms from people, God protect him and preserve his self-esteem, whoever tries to be free from want, God will enrich him, whoever tries to exercise patience, God will strengthen his endurance. more advantageous than patience". Contentment and sobriety
1747. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Great God! Give the family of Muhammad just enough to survive ". Giving to one who asks with rudeness and impertinence
1749. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: I was walking in the company of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who was dressed in a Najranite robe, having a rough hem, when a Bedouin came to join him and pulled him by his robe so violently that I saw the traces of the hem mark the neck of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "O Muhammad! Order that I be given the goods of God that you have", said the Bedouin to him. The Prophet (peace be upon him) turned to him laughing; then ordered something to be given to him".
1750. According to Al-Miswar Ibn Makhrama ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) distributed outer garments without giving anything to Makhrama. - "O my son, said Makhrama, lead me to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". So I accompanied him there. - "Come in, he said to me, and call the Prophet". As soon as I called him, the Prophet came out, putting one of these clothes on his shoulders, and said: "I have put it aside for you". Makhrama then examined the garment and was satisfied. The fact of giving to those whose hearts are to rally to Islam and the constancy of those whose faith is firm
1753. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), on the day of Hunayn, when God had granted His Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him) the spoils of the Hawazin, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) on him) gave about a hundred camels to some Quraysh. Some of the 'Ansar then said: "May God forgive His Messenger! There he is, making gifts to the Quraysh and leaving us aside. We whose swords are still dripping with blood (from the enemies)!". Anas Ibn Mâlik adds: These words were transmitted to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who summoned the 'Ansâr to a meeting under a tent of tanned leather. When they were assembled, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came to them and addressed them in these terms: "What do these words mean that I have been told according to you?". The most sensible among the 'Ansar answered him: "The reasonable people among us have said nothing; but some of our very young people have uttered these words: May God forgive his Messenger! Here he is making gifts to the Quraysh and leaves us aside, we whose swords still drip blood (from the enemies)!". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then justified himself by saying: "I give men who have recently left idolatry to encourage them to remain faithful to Islam. Are you not not satisfied that these people carry away the goods, while you bring back to your homes the Messenger of God? By God! What you win is better than what they win". The 'Ansar answered: "Yes, O Messenger of God, we are satisfied". The Messenger of God resumed: "Certainly, you will suffer from this predilection, replied the Prophet, but be patient until the Day when you will meet God and His messenger. I will then be at the edge of the Basin". - "We will be patient", replied the 'Ansar.
1758. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Zayd (may God be pleased with him), When the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) shared the spoils of Hunayn, he gave to those whose hearts are to be won over to Islam. It then came to his knowledge that the 'Ansar would have liked to have had a share of the spoils like these. The Prophet (peace be upon him) then delivered a speech to them. After celebrating the praises of God, he said: "O the 'Ansar! Did I not find you astray (under the yoke of idolatry); and did not God guide you (to the Right Way) through me? Were you not poor, and God made you rich through me? Were you not divided, and God united you through me? To each question posed by the Prophet, they replied: "God and His Messenger have showered us with favors". - "What prevents you from answering?" asked the Prophet. But they content themselves with repeating: "God and His Messenger have showered us with favors". - "If you wanted it, he continued, you would have said: You came to us in such and such a condition"; and he began to enumerate them claims that he could not retain the continuation of the words of the Prophet). - "Aren't you then satisfied that these people carry away the sheep and the camels, while you take the Prophet home. It is the 'Ansar who are closest to me, like the chi'ar clothing); while the other peoples are only like the dithar (covering). If it were only emigration, I would have been a man of the 'Ansar. If people go through a valley or a defile, I I would have preferred to take the path of the valley and the defile leading to the 'Ansar. You will suffer, after me, from favoritism, so be patient until you find me near the Basin".
1759. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: On the day of Hunayn, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) favored certain people in the division of the spoils. He gave Al-'Aqra' Ibn Hâbis one hundred camels, likewise; also gave predilection to some among the Arab sherifs and showered them with favors. A man then said: "By God! This is an unjust division which is not done for the love of God". I then said to myself: "By God! I am going to share these words with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". So I went to find him and told him what the man had said. He blushed then said: "Who will be just if God and His messenger are not! May God have mercy on Moses who suffered much more than that and yet he gave the perfect proof of patience!". Following this incident, added 'Abdullâh, I decided not to report anything more to the Prophet". Mention of the "Kharijites" and their characteristics
1761. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdoullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), a man came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him) in Al-Ji'râna after the battle of Hunayn. He found him taking silver notes from the tails of Bilal's clothes to distribute to people. - "O Muhammad! Be fair!", said the man. - "Woe to you!, replied the Prophet, and who would be fair; if I were not! You would certainly have lost a lot if I were not fair". 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb said: "O Messenger of God! Let me kill this hypocrite!". But the Prophet said: "God forbid that they say of me that I murder my companions. This man and his people recite the Qur'an without its recitation going beyond their throats (without having any reward) and will hastily abandon the Qur'an. 'Islam like an arrow that pierces a game and comes out the other side'.
1762. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him), 'Ali (may God be pleased with him), being in Yemen, sent raw gold to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) who divided it between four men: Al-'Aqra' Ibn Hâbis Al-Hanzalî, 'Uyayna Ibn Badr Al-Fazari, 'Alqama Ibn 'Ulâtha Al-'Amirî. Then, he gave some to one of the Banû Kilâb, to Zayd Al-Khayr At-Tâ'î and to one of the Banû Nabhân. The Quraysh were very angry and said to him: "How do you give to the rulers of Nejd and deprive us?". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "I am only doing this for the purpose of winning their hearts to Islam". Then a man with a bushy beard, protruding cheekbones, sunken eyes, a marked forehead and a shaved head, came and said to him: "O Muhammad! Fear God!". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) answered him: "Who would obey God if I disobeyed Him? God has entrusted all the people of the earth to me, and you do not trust me ?". When the man left, one of the faithful (it is said to be Khâlid Ibn Al-Walîd) asked permission to kill him. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "From the descendants of this man, people will be born who will recite the Koran without it going beyond their throats, who will kill the Muslims, who will leave alive the idolaters and who will hastily abandon Islam like an arrow that pierces a game and comes out the other side. If I still live in this time, I will put them to death like the 'Ad. Incitement to kill the "Kharijites"
1771. Sawayd Ibn Ghafala (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "At the end of time will come weak-minded young people who will repeat some of the best words of mankind; yet who will recite the Qur'an without its recitation going beyond their throats (without having any reward) and will hastily abandon Islam like an arrow piercing a game and coming out of the "other side. Wherever you find them, kill them; for their murder will be rewarded on the Day of Resurrection to him who committed it." The "Kharijites" are the worst creatures
1776. Yusayr Ibn 'Amr asked Sahl Ibn Hunayf if he had heard the Prophet (peace be upon him) quoting the Kharijites. Sahl answered him: I heard him say, pointing his hand towards the East: "From there will come people who will recite the Koran with the tips of their tongues, without its recitation going beyond their throats; they will hastily abandon the Islam like an arrow pierces a game and comes out the other side". Prohibition to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) to appropriate the property of legal alms (Az-Zakâ), as well as to his family: the Banû Hâchim and the Banû 'Abd Al- Muttalib
1778. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), Al-Hasan Ibn 'Ali took one of the dates intended for alms and put it in his mouth. - "Stop! Stop and throw it away, cried the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) adding: "Don't you know that we hardly eat what is intended for alms? .
1779. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When I return home, let me find a date fallen on my bed and take it to eat it; I fear that it is part of what was intended for alms and I reject it immediately".
1781. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having found a date, said: "If I were not afraid that it was part of the alms , I would have eaten it". The gift is permitted to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) as well as to the Banû Hâchim and the Banû 'Abd Al-Muttalib, even if the one who offers it has acquired it from legal alms. Once legal alms is acquired by the poor, it no longer becomes alms and then it is lawful to anyone even those to whom it was prohibited.
1786. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), Barîra offered as a gift to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) meat which had been given to him in alms. - "This meat, says the Prophet, is an alms for her and a gift for us".
1787. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) was given beef as a gift. - "It is alms given to Barîra", they say. - "It's an alms for her and a gift for us", he answered.
1789. 'Umm 'Atiyya ( رضي الله عنها ) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) gave me a sheep as an alms; so I sent a piece of it to 'Aisha. When he entered 'Aisha's house, the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Have you anything (to eat)?". She answered: "No, except this piece of the sheep coming from the alms given to Nusayba that she sent us". - "Bring it, resumed the Prophet, it has arrived in its place". The Prophet (peace be upon him) accepted the gift and refused legal alms
1790. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: When food was brought to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he inquired if it was a gift - and in this case he ate it-or part of the alms-and in this case he refused to eat it-. Invocation in favor of the one who gives alms
1791. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abi 'Awfâ (may God be pleased with him) said: Whenever people brought alms to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he would say: "O Lord! Sprinkle on them Your blessing". When my father Abou 'Awfâ came to bring him his alms, he said: "Lord! Spread Your blessing on the family of Abou 'Awfâ!" The Authentic of Muslim 13 - Fasting Merit of Ramadan
1793. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "As soon as Ramadan arrives, the gates of Paradise open, those of Hell close and the devils are chained". Beginning and end of Ramadan at the sight of the crescent; if it is hidden the month is counted thirty days
1795. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), referring to the month of Ramadan, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Do not start fasting before seeing the crescent ( of the month of Ramadan) and do not stop it either before seeing that (of Shawwâl). If the sky is cloudy, resort to calculation".
1808. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Start the fast as soon as you see the crescent (of Ramadan) and stop it as soon as you see the one (of shawwâl). If the weather is foggy, fast for a thirtieth day". Do not precede Ramadan fasting by one or two days (of fasting)
1812. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Do not fast one or two days before Ramadan, except for the man who used to to eat lunch". The month can have twenty-nine days
1816. According to Oum Salama ( رضي الله عنها ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) swore not to enter some of his wives for a month. On the twenty-ninth day, he returned home in the morning or evening. - "You have sworn, o Messenger of God, not to visit us for a month", they pointed out to him. - "Well!, he answered, the month can be of twenty-nine days (only)". About the words of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "There are two months which do not diminish, these are the months of celebration"
1822. According to Abu Bakra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The reward of the two months ending with the feasts (that of breaking the fast and that of sacrifice), Ramadan and dhû-l-hijja, is in no way reduced (even if the duration of each of these two months is 29 and not 30 days). Beginning of the fast at dawn. Definition of aurora. Determining the time of fajr prayer and other things
1824. According to 'Adî Ibn Hâtim (may God be pleased with him), When this verse: Until the white thread of dawn is distinguished from the black thread of night was revealed to you, 'Adî Ibn Hâtim said: "O Messenger of God! I put under my bolster two cords, one black and one white to distinguish the dawn from the night". - "Your bolster is therefore singularly wide, answered the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him), the black thread means the darkness of the night and the white thread, the whiteness of the dawn".
1825. Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him) said: When this verse: Eat and drink until the white thread of the black thread is distinguished for you, the man (wanting to fast ) took a white and a black cord and continued to eat (and drink) as long as he could distinguish one from the other. It was then that God abrogated the previous verse by this one: the white thread of the dawn of the black thread of the night and we understood then that it was about the blackness of the night and the whiteness of the dawn.
1827. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Bilâl calls for prayer (fajr) while it is still night Eat and drink until you hear the call to prayer made by Ibn 'Umm Maktûm".
1830. According to Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "May Bilâl's call to prayer (fajr) not prevent any of you to take his suhûr (nocturnal meal taken before sunrise during Ramadan), because he calls for this prayer while it is still dark to signal the imminence of dawn to those among you who are watching the night to say prayers, and to wake up the sleeping one". Then he (peace be upon him) made gestures with his hand and fingers to explain the difference between dawn and dawn. Merit of the "suhûr" and recommendation to take it especially late and to hasten the breaking of the fast
1835. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Take the suhûr, for there is a blessing".
1837. Zayd Ibn Thâbit (may God be pleased with him) said: We took the suhûr with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him); then we got up to go to prayer. - "How much time elapsed between the suhûr and the call to prayer (of fajr)?", one asked. - "Time to recite fifty verses".
1838. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The faithful will remain on the Right Path (that of religion) as long as let them hasten to break their fast (at the appointed hour)". Time of breaking the fast is sunset
1841. According to 'Omar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "At nightfall, when the day begins to s extinguish and the sun goes down, it is time for the faithful to break their fast".
1842. 'Abdoullâh Ibn 'Abi 'Awfâ (may God be pleased with him) said: We were accompanying the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) on a journey during Ramadan. At sunset, he (peace and blessings be upon him) said to a man: "Get down (from your mount) and prepare some porridge for us". - "O Messenger of God, resumed the man, it is still day". And the Messenger of God to repeat his order. The man then descended from his mount and prepared the porridge. Then, he served it to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who drank it, then said, making gestures with his hand: "When the sun goes down here and night falls over- there, it is time for the faithful to break their fast". Prohibition of continuous fasting
1844. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace be upon him) forbade the observance of continual fasting. - "But you, you observe it", they say. "My condition, he replied, differs from yours; I am nourished and quenched."
1846. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) forbids the observance of continuous fasting. One of the Muslims said to him: "But you, you observe it, O Messenger of God?". The Prophet (peace be upon him) replied: "You are not like me, for in the night my Lord provides me with food and drink". As the devotees renounced his order, he observed with them a continual fast day after day, until the appearance of the new moon. He then said to them: "If the appearance of the crescent had been delayed, I would have continued this fast longer". As if he wanted to afflict them with a punishment, because they had disobeyed him by refusing to break the continual fast.
1848. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him): During Ramadan, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was practicing a (supplementary) prayer, so I came to say it next to him , and another did the same and so on until we formed a group of less than ten men. When the Prophet noticed that we followed him in prayer, he relieved him. Once back home, he continued the prayer he had abbreviated with us. The next morning, we said to him: "Did you notice our presence last night?". He answered: "That is what led me to lighten the prayer". Towards the end of the month, the Prophet (peace be upon him) began to observe continual fasting and some of his companions followed suit." The Prophet then said, "Why do you observe continual fasting? You are not like me. By God! If the month (of Ramadan) could be prolonged longer, I would have observed a long continual fast capable of forcing the exaggerators to abandon their exaggeration". During the fast, it is permissible to kiss the wives if this kiss does not excite carnal desire
1851. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "The Prophet (peace be upon him) kissed some of his wives while he was fasting". Then she started laughing.
1863. According to 'Umar Ibn 'Abi Salama (may God be pleased with him), I asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) if the fasting man could fuck his wife?. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "Ask your question to Oum Salama". She informed him that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) was doing this. 'Umar then came and said: "O Messenger of God! God has certainly forgiven you of your previous and subsequent faults". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "By God! I fear God and dread Him more than any of you". Validity of the fast of one who becomes ritually impure in the morning
1864. According to 'Aisha and Oum Salama (may God be pleased with them), It happened that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) woke up in the morning defiled following a carnal intercourse , and despite this he continued his fast. Categorical prohibition to the faster to coitus during the day; otherwise it is incumbent upon him to perform the major atonement once he is able to do so
1870. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), A man came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: - "O Messenger of God! I am lost". - "What caused your loss?" asked the Prophet. - "I had carnal intercourse with my wife one day of Ramadan". - "Do you have a slave that you can free?". - "No". - "Are you able to fast for two successive months?". - "No". - "Do you have enough to feed sixty poor people?". - "No". The man remained with the Prophet (peace be upon him) until a wicker basket containing dates was brought to him. He (peace and blessings be upon him) said to man: "Make it charity". The man replied: "Certainly, between the two territories covered with black stones of Medina, there is not a family which is poorer or more in need of it than mine". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then laughed heartily, then said: "Take it, and feed your family with it".
1873. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ): A man came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God! I am damned". - "What is the matter with you?" asked the Prophet. - "I had carnal intercourse with my wife one day of Ramadan". - "Give alms! Give alms". - "I don't own anything". The Prophet ordered him to sit down. At this moment, two wicker baskets containing food were brought to him. The Prophet enjoined him to give alms. In Ramadan, fasting is optional in case of a successful journey with two or more phases. It is better to fast for those who can with difficulty but without risking suffering and those who cannot have the license to break the fast.
1875. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ): During Ramadan in the year of the conquest of Mecca, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) undertook a journey. He observed the fast until he arrived at Al-Kadid (a source of running water 42 miles from Mecca). There he broke his fast. Ibn 'Abbas added that the companions of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) always closely followed his various behaviors.
1879. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdoullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ): During a trip, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) saw a crowd of people surrounding a man and sheltering him from the sun. He asked, "What is it?" He was answered: "He is a faster". - "Fasting while traveling is not charity", pointed out the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him).
1884. Anas (may God be pleased with him) was asked about the Ramadan fasting during the trip, he said: "We traveled with the Prophet (peace be upon him) during Ramadan. Neither the fasting person blamed the one who broke his fast, nor this one blamed that one". Reward of one who does not fast
1886. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: We were traveling with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), some of us observed the fast while others did not observe it. We then halted on a very hot day. Some used their clothes to shelter themselves from the sun, and others, their hands. The fasters fell to the ground, and those who did not observe the fast pitched the tents and watered the mounts. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) then said: "It is those who do not fast today who have won the reward". For the traveler, fasting is optional
1889. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), Hamza Ibn 'Amr Al-'Aslamî asked the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) about the observance of fasting while traveling. He replied, "You are completely free to keep the fast or to break it."
1892. Abu Ad-Dardâ' (may God be pleased with him) said: "During Ramadan, we went with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) on a journey, while the heat was torrid to the point that the 'one of us covered his head with his hand to shelter himself from the sun. None of us fasted except the Prophet and 'Abdullâh Ibn Rawâha". Recommendation to the pilgrim to break the fast at 'Arafa on the day of 'Arafa
1894. 'Umm Al-Fadl bint Al-Hârith ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "The day some people doubted the fasting of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him): some said that he fasted and others assured him that he was not fasting. As he stood on his mount I sent him a jug of milk which he drank".
1895. 'Umm Al-Fadl ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "Some companions of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) doubted the fasting of the day we were with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) I then sent him a jug of milk which he drank". Fasting on the day of 'Achûrâ
1897. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: In pre-Islamic times, the Quraysh, as well as the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), fasted on the day of 'Achûrâ'. Even after the hijra he (peace be upon him) continued to fast him and recommended his fasting. After the prescription of the Ramadan fast, he says: "You are free to fast or not to fast on this day".
1901. 'Abdoullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: In pre-Islamic times, people fasted on the day of 'Achûrâ'. Then, before the prescription of the Ramadan fast, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and the Muslims also fasted it. But after the prescription of the Ramadan fast, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "'Achûrâ' is one of the days of God. You are free to fast or not to fast on this day".
1905. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him): 'Abdourrahmân Ibn Yazid transmitted that Al-'Ach'ath Ibn Qays entered the house of 'Abdullâh who was having lunch. He said to him: "O Abu Muhammad! Come and eat". - "Isn't it the day of 'Achûrâ'?", asked Al-'Ach'ath. - "Yes, but do you know what the day of 'Achûrâ' is?", he said. - "No!", replied Al-'Ach'ath. - "It was a day that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was fasting before the prescription of Ramadan fasting. But since this prescription, we have stopped fasting on this day", he replied.
1909. According to Mu'âwiya Ibn Abi Sufyân (may God be pleased with him), Humayd Ibn 'Abdourrahmân said: I heard Mu'âwiya ibn Abi Sufyan say in the pulpit in Medina on the day of 'Achûrâ', the year when he made his Hajj: "O Medinan! Where are your scholars? I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) say: Today is the day of 'Achûrâ'; God will not did not prescribe fasting, but I fast; let those who want to fast fast; and let those who do not want to, not fast".
1910. Ibn 'Abbas ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Prophet came to Medina and saw that the Jews were fasting on the day of 'Achûrâ'. He asked them, "Why are you fasting on this day?" - "It is on this day, he was answered, that God delivered Moses and the Israelites from Pharaoh, so we are fasting to celebrate this day". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then replied: "We have more right to Moses than you". And he ordered him to fast.
1912. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: The Jews celebrated the day of 'Achûrâ' and considered it a feast day. The Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "You too should fast on this day".
1914. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I was asked about fasting on the day of 'Achûrâ' and I replied: "I have never seen the Prophet (peace be upon him) manifest preferably to fast on a day like this day, nor a month, like this month, that is to say the month of Ramadan". Whoever eats on the day of 'Achûrâ' must fast the rest of the day
1918. Salama Ibn Al-'Akwa' (may God be pleased with him) said: On the day of 'Achûrâ', the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) instructed a man of 'Aslam, to transmit this to the faithful: “Whoever has not eaten should fast, and whoever has eaten should fast for the rest of the day.”
1919. Ar-Rubayyi' bint Mu'awwidh Ibn 'Afrâ' ( رضي الله عنها ) said: On the morning of the day of 'Achûrâ', the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sent a herald to announce to the villages the ' Ansar located around Medina: "Let him continue to fast, he who has not eaten as soon as he wakes up; and let him fast the rest of the day, he who has already eaten". She continued, "From then on, we were fasting that day and we made our children fast too, by the grace of God. We would go to the mosque and make them a toy out of wool and when one of them cried hungry, we gave it to him to preoccupy him until the moment of breaking the fast". Prohibition of fasting on the first day of the two festivals: Al-Fitr and Al-'Ad-ha
1920. 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade fasting on these two days: the first is when you break the fast of Ramadan , and the second where you eat of your sacrificed animals".
1922. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him), I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "There is no fasting for two days: the day of the feast of sacrifice and the day of breaking the fast of Ramadan".
1924. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: A man came to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) and said to him: "I made a vow to fast on a day which had coincided with the first day of the feast of sacrifice - or the feast of breaking the fast". Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) answered him: "God commanded to fulfill the vows, but the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade fasting on this day". It is blameworthy to fast on Friday alone
1928. Muhammad Ibn 'Abbâd said: I asked Jabir Ibn 'Abdullâh while he was performing the ritual rounds around the Ka'ba: "Has the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) it forbids fasting on Fridays? - "Yes, by the Lord of this House", he answered.
1929. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Let none of you fast on Friday, unless he also fasts on the day that precedes it (Thursday) or the day following it (Saturday)". Repeal of this verse: "But for those who could not bear it except (with great difficulty)..." by: "...Therefore whoever of you is present in this month, let him fast. .."
1931. Salama (may God be pleased with him) said: "When this verse But for those who could bear it only (with great difficulty), there is a compensation: to feed a poor was revealed, it was permissible to break fasting on condition of making an atonement. This lasted until the revelation of the following verse which abrogated it". Fasting for Ramadan in the month of Cha'bân
1933. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "It happened that I could only fulfill the fast of a few days of Ramadan only in the month of Sha'ban. As I am always concerned about my duties towards the Prophet ( peace and blessings of God be upon him). Acquittal of the fast owed by the dead
1935. According to 'A'isha ( رضي الله عنها ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The successor of a dead person who should have fulfilled a fast, must do in his place".
1936. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: A woman came to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God! My mother died when she had to fast for a month ". He said, "If she had a debt, would you pay it for her?" - "Certainly, yes!" replied the woman. He replied, "So you should rather pay your debt to God." The faster should not utter low words
1941. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: Whoever intends to fast one day, do not say obscenities or profanities. If someone insults or attacks him, let him repeat: "I am fasting". merit of fasting
1947. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: In Paradise, there is a door, called "Ar-Rayyân" by which will enter the fasters on the Day of Resurrection, and none but them shall enter. They will say: "Where are the fasters?". And these to enter. As soon as their last one passes, this door will close and no one else will enter. Worth fasting for the love of God, for those who endure it with difficulty without hurting themselves or neglecting a right
1948. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him): The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Any Servant who fasts for a day for the love of God , God, as a reward, will remove his face from Hell for a period of seventy years". Whoever eats, drinks or coitus forgetting that he is fasting, his fast remains valid
1952. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever eats or drinks, forgetting that he is fasting, continue the rest of the day in fasting, for it was God who provided him with food and drink". Fasting of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) on other days outside the month of Ramadan, Recommendation to fast a few days of each month
1959. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "Never did the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) fast a whole month, except Ramadan. He fasted (additionally) so often that it looked like he never broke his fast; and he broke it for so long, that it was thought he never fasted (additionally)."
1961. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him): "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) fasted (additionally so often) to the point that one had the impression that he did not never broke his fast; and he broke it (so long), so that it was thought he never fasted (additionally)". Prohibition of perpetually fasting for one who may be damaged by it or who could neglect a right, or it involves fasting on feast days and the day of Tashriq. Recommendation rather to fast every other day
1962. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr Ibn Al-'As (may God be pleased with him), The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was informed that I had said: "I will fast on day and spend the night praying while I live". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) asked me: "Did you say that?". - "Yes, I said it well, O Messenger of God". - "You will not be able to do it. Fast one day and break the fast another. Stay awake part of the night and sleep another. fasting will be equivalent to perpetual fasting,” he told me. - "I can bear even more", I answered. - "So fast one day and break the fast two others". - "I can do better still", I tell him. - "So fast every other day, such was the fast of David (peace be upon him) and it is the most moderate fast". - "I can do better still". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to me: "There is nothing better than that". 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr ( رضي الله عنهما ) added: "If I had agreed to fast three days each month, those days would have been dearer to me than my family and my property". The fast of the last days of cha'bân
1975. According to 'Imrân Ibn Husayn (may God be pleased with them), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) asked him -or asked another man in his presence-: "Did you fast for the last days of cha'bân?". - "No", he replied. - "If you have broken the fast, then fast for two days", replied the Prophet. Merit of the day of the night of Al-Qadr (the glorious night), incentive to seek it and best time to do it
1985. According to Ibn 'Omar ( رضي الله عنهما ), some companions of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) saw in a dream that the night of Al-Qadr was one of the last seven nights (of Ramadan) . The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said to them: "I notice that your visions agree on the last seven nights. Whoever is waiting for him, let him watch for him during the last seven nights (of Ramadan )".
1993. Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) stayed in the mosque to worship God during the second decade of Ramadan. From the end of the twentieth night and the arrival of the twenty-first, he returned to his home as well as all the faithful who were staying there with him. During Ramadan of another year, he continued to stay in the mosque on the twenty-first night, and gave an address to the faithful. After many recommendations, he said to them: "I used to stay in the mosque to worship God during the second decade (of Ramadan), but it seems to me that I should rather stay there during the last decade of the month. those who stayed with me, continue their stay in the mosque. I saw in a dream this night (that of Al-Qadr), but I have lost the memory of it. Watch for it during the last decade among the odd nights. I also saw in a dream that I was prostrating in water and mud". Abu Sa'id Al-Khudrī added: "Indeed, it had rained on the twenty-first night of Ramadan, and the water from the rain had seeped through the ceiling of the mosque, just above the place where the Prophet prayed. I saw him then at the end of the morning prayer (subh), having his face covered with water and mud".
1998. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Look out for the night of Al-Qadr during the last decade of Ramadan". The Authentic of Muslim 14 - Spiritual Retreat Retreat during the last decade of Ramadan
2002. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was doing a spiritual retreat during the last decade of Ramadan". Application to religious practices during the last decade of Ramadan
2008. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "From the arrival of the last decade (of Ramadan), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) spent the nights praying, awakening his wives (to worship to God, they too), applied himself with zeal to religious practices and abstained from all carnal relations (with his wives)".
2009. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "During the last decade of Ramadan, the Prophet (peace be upon him) applied himself to religious practices more than he did during any what other time of year". The authentic Muslim 15 - Pilgrimage What is allowed and what is prohibited for the pilgrim in a state of ihram and that he is prohibited from wearing perfume
2012. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), a man asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "What should a man wear in the state of ihram (sacredness)?". "Do not wear, replied the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him), neither shirts, nor turbans, nor trousers, nor burnouses, nor slippers. If you do not find sandals, you You can wear the slippers but by cutting them below the ankles. Do not wear clothes dyed with saffron or memecycle".
2015. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say in the pulpit: "The wearing of trousers is permissible for those who do not find an izâr and the Wearing slippers is permitted for those who cannot find sandals. This was the man in the state of ihram".
2017. According to Ya'lâ Ibn 'Umayya (may God be pleased with him) a man, wearing a tunic perfumed with khalûq (or according to a variant: dyed yellow) came to find the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him ) who was in Al-Ji'râna and said to him: "What do you order me to do during my 'Umra?". At that time, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) received the Revelation and was covered with a garment. Ya'lâ said: How I so wished to see the Prophet (peace be upon him) when he received the Revelation. - "Would you like to see the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) at the time of the Revelation?". then pulled back the skirt of the garment and I saw the Prophet breathing heavily like a young camel. When the Revelation was over, he asked: "Where is the man who asks me about 'Umrah? rites you perform during Hajj". Fixed dates for Hajj and 'Umrah
2022. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) fixed the meeting point of pilgrims from Medina at Dhûl-Hulayfa; that of the pilgrims from Syria to Al-Juhfa; that of the pilgrims from Nejd to Qarn Al-Manazil; and that of pilgrims from Yemen to Yalamlam. Then he said: "These are their meeting points and those of other pilgrims wishing to practice Hajj or 'Umra, even if they are not natives. As for those who live in the interval between Makkah and one of the meeting points for pilgrims, let them begin the state of ihram from their homes. As for the inhabitants of Mecca, let them begin the state of ihram from their homes".
2024. Narrated Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: the meeting point of the pilgrims of Medina is Dhûl-Hulayfa; that of the Syrians is Al-Juhfa; that of the people of Nejd is Qarn. adds: I learned that the Messenger of God also said: "The meeting point of the Yemeni pilgrims is Yalamlam". The "Talbiya", its character and time
2029. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the formula of the Talbiya pronounced by the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was: "Great God! Here I am answering Your call. You have no partner, here I am answering Your call. Praise and benefits are Yours, and Kingship, You have no partner". The people of Medina must wear their ihram clothes from the mosque of "Dhûl-Hulayfa"
2033. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "Contrary to your lies attributed to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), your Baydâ' there (name of a place located near Dhûl- Hulayfa), the Prophet did not take it as a meeting place for pilgrims and only began to pronounce the Talbiya from the mosque of Dhûl-Hulayfa". The perfume for the one who wears the clothes of ihram
2040. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "I perfumed the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) before his sacralization and after his desacralization before he performed the last ritual rounds around of the Sacred House". Prohibition of hunting for those who are in a state of ihram
2059. According to As-Sa'b Ibn Jaththâma Al-Laythî (may God be pleased with him), I offered to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) (flesh) a wild donkey, so whether he was in Al-'Abwâ' or in Waddân, but he (peace and blessings of God be upon him) refused it. Noticing my dissatisfaction, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to me: "I only refused it because I am in a state of ihram".
2060. According to Ibn 'Abbas ( رضي الله عنهما ), As-Sa'b Ibn Jaththâma offered (flesh) from a wild donkey to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), who was in a state of sacralization; but this one (peace and blessings of God on him) refused it by saying to him: "If I were not in a state of sacralization, I would have accepted it".
2062. Abu Qatâda (may God be pleased with him) said: When we reached Al-Qâha with the Prophet (peace be upon him), some of us were in the state of ihram and others were not. were not. I noticed that my companions were showing something to each other. I then saw a wild ass. I harnessed my horse and took my spear. My whip having fallen as I mounted my horse, I asked my companions, who were in ihram, to pick it up for me. But, they answered me: "By God! We will not help you in any way to chase him away". With that I climbed down and picked up my whip, then was able to grab the donkey from behind while he was hiding behind a mound, I struck him with my spear and cut his hocks. Then I brought it to my companions. Some said: "Eat it"; and others said, "Don't eat it." So I went to join the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who had preceded us and asked him the question: "Eat it, he replied, it is lawful". Animals to be killed in a state of sacredness and non-sacredness
2068. 'Aisha, the wife of the Prophet ( رضي الله عنها ), said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "These four pests are to be killed absolutely even during the sanctification : the kite, the crow, the mouse and the rabid dog".
2073. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There is no reproach to be made against him who kills one of these five even within the sanctuary (of Mecca) and during the sacralization: the mouse, the scorpion, the crow, the kite and the mad dog". Authorization to the pilgrim to shave his head if he suffers from an affection, and that he then redeems himself and the measure of this redemption
2080. Ka'b Ibn 'Ujra (may God be pleased with him) said: In the time of Al-Hudaybiya, the Prophet (peace be upon him) stood in front of me while I was lighting the fire under a pot - according to Al-Qawârîrî -, - or a pot according to Abu Ar-Rabî' -. As I was lousy, he said to me: "Are you suffering because of your lice?". - "Yes", I answered. He replied: "So shave your head, (and in redemption) fast three days or feed six poor people or immolate a sacrifice". Authorization to make a bloodletting in a state of ihram
2087. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made a bloodletting, while he was in a state of sacralization.
2088. According to Abu Buhayna (may God be pleased with him), on the road to Mecca, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made a bloodletting in the middle of his head, when he was in a state of sanctity. Authorization to one who is in a state of ihram to wash his body and head
2091. According to Abu Ayyûb Al-Ansâri (may God be pleased with him), 'Abdullâh Ibn Hunayn said: 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abbas sent me to Abu Ayyûb Al-Ansâri. I found him bathing by a well, veiling himself with a garment. I greeted him. - "Who is it?" he asked. - "I am 'Abdullâh Ibn Hunayn. It is 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abbas who sent me to ask you how the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) washed his head when he was in a state of ihram," I replied. Abu Ayyub (may God be pleased with him) then lowered the garment to show me his head. Then he addressed himself to the one who poured him the water, saying: "Pour". He began to rub his head, passing his hands back and forth and said to me at the end: "This is how I saw the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) washing her head". The way in which a dead man is washed in the state of ihram
2092. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: A man (who was in the state of ihram) fell from his camel, broke his neck and died on the spot. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said: "Wash him with water and lotus, bury him in his two pieces of cloth; but above all do not cover his head; for, at the On Judgment Day, God will resurrect him saying the Talbiya." What is permissible for a person in a state of ihram to stipulate because of illness or something else
2101. 'A'isha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) entered Dubâ'a bint Az-Zubayr and said to him: "You wanted to perform Hajj!". She answered him: "By God! I feel a certain pain". He said to him, "Perform Hajj by setting a condition. Say: Great God! My place of desacralization will be where You keep me (from reaching the Holy House)." Duba'a was Al-Miqdad's wife. Different fixed places of ihram and the possibility of doing Hajj only, or enjoying a normal life between 'Umra and Hajj, or joining Hajj to 'Umra and the time of the desacralization of the pilgrim from his rites
2108. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: We accompanied the Prophet (peace be upon him) during his farewell Hajj and performed Talbiya for 'Umrah. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Let him who has an offering do both Talbiya for Hajj and 'Umra, and let him not leave the state of ihram only when he had performed their rites". 'Aisha continued: When I arrived in Makkah, I was having my period. So I did not do the ritual rounds around the Sacred House nor the route between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa. As I complained about this to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he said to me: "Untie your hair and comb it, do the Talbiya for Hajj and leave the 'Umra (for the time being)". I followed his advice. When we performed the Hajj, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sent me to At-Tan'îm in the company of (my brother) 'Abdourrahmân Ibn 'Abi Bakr and there, I perform the rites of the 'Umrah. The Prophet said to me: "It is from this place that your 'Umrah begins". 'Aisha added: "Those who had made the Talbiya for the 'Umra, made the ritual rounds around the Sacred House and the route between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa, then they desacralized themselves. Then they made the rounds a second time rituals on their return from Mina for their Hajj. As for those who had joined the Hajj with the 'Umra, they performed the ritual rounds only once".
2126. According to 'Abdourrahmân Ibn 'Abi Bakr (may God be pleased with him) the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered him to take 'A'isha behind him and make him perform the 'Umra from At-Tan 'im.
2127. According to Jabir ibn 'Abdullah (may God be pleased with him), We performed the Talbiya for the Hajj only with the Prophet (peace be upon him) while 'Aisha intended to perform the 'Umrah. Arrived at Sarif, she had her period. When we arrived in Mecca, we made the ritual rounds around the Ka'ba and the route between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered the one who did not have an offering to sacrifice to desacralize himself. As we asked him of what nature this desacralization is, he answered: "A complete desacralization". We had carnal intercourse with our wives, we perfumed ourselves and we wore our ordinary clothes while only four nights (walking) separated us from Then, on the day of Al-Tarwiya (the eighth day of dhûl-hijja), we did the Talbiya. Penetrating to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) found her crying. - "What is the matter?" he asked her. - "I had my period, when people were leaving ihram and I could not do it, nor perform the ritual rounds around the Ka'ba, and now people are heading towards the Hajj,” she replied. He said to me: "It is a rule that God imposed on the daughters of Adam. So do the Ghusl, then pronounce the Talbiya for the Hajj". 'Aisha followed his orders and performed all the rites of Hajj. When she became pure, she made the ritual rounds around the Ka'ba and the route between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa. The Prophet then said to him: "Here you are acquitted of the rites of Hajj and 'Umra together". She replied: "O Messenger of God! I feel that I did not complete my Hajj until after having made the ritual rounds around the House". He retorted, "O Take her away and let her perform her 'Umrah from At-Tan'im". This took place on the night of Al-Hasba (the night when the pilgrims leave Mecca after the days of Tashriq).
2131. 'Atâ' said: I heard Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) say: "We, the companions of Muhammad (peace and blessings of God be upon him), we pronounced the Talbiya in order to accomplish the Hajj only". 'Atâ' added: Jabir said: "On the morning of the fourth day of dhûl-hijja, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came to order us to desecrate ourselves". 'Atâ' said: The Prophet added: "Abandon sacredness and have carnal relations with your wives". 'Atâ' said: "He (peace be upon him) did not insist on it, but he made these things lawful for them". The companions said: When he separates us from the station for only four days, does he (peace and blessings of God be upon him) order us to have carnal intercourse with our wives, so that when we arrive at we will have the rods dripping with semen". He ('Atâ') added: I still seem to see Jabir moving his hand while saying his words. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then addressed us in these terms: " You know well that I fear God more than any of you and that I am the most truthful and pious among you. If it wasn't for my Sacrificial Beast that I brought with me, I would have desacralized, just like you. If I knew the invisible, I wouldn't have taken her. Leave therefore the sacredness". With that, we obeyed. 'Atâ' added: Jabir then said: Then came 'Ali who was in charge of collecting taxes. He (peace and blessings of God be upon him) asked him: "How did you utter Talbiya (does it with the intention of performing Hajj and 'Umrah together or Hajj and 'Umrah each separately)?" He replied, "As did the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) exactly (i.e. performing Hajj and 'Umra together)". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said to him: and remains in a state of sacredness" and offered him an animal to sacrifice. Surâqa Ibn Mâlik Ibn Ju'chum then asked: "O Messenger of God! Is it for this year or forever?" And the Prophet replied: "It is forever". The verse: "Then surge where the people surge..."
2140. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: The Qurayshites and all those who followed their religion, halted at Al-Muzdalifa and they were called "Al-Hums" (the frenzied, because they clung feverishly to their religion), while all the other Arabs stationed at surge from it, and this in accordance with this divine word: Then surge from where the people surged
2142. Jubayr Ibn Mut'im (may Allah be pleased with him) said: One of my camels went astray; So I went looking for him on the day of I then saw the Prophet (peace be upon him) standing among the people at 'Arafa. I said, "By God, he's one of the Hums. What's he doing there?" The Quraysh were part of the "Hums". Repeal of desacralization and order to complete the rites
2143. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: I came to find the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) at Al-Bathâ' where he was stopping over. He asked me: "Have you performed Hajj?". - "Yes", I answered him. - "With what intention did you begin your sacralisation ('ifrâd, Qirân or Tamattu')?", he resumed. I said to him: "I have formulated the intention to accomplish it exactly as the Prophet had accomplished it". - "That's good, he replied, perform the ritual rounds around the Ka'ba, then make the journey between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa and then leave the state of sacralization". Abou Moûsa added: I made the ritual tours around the Ka'ba, then I made the journey between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa finally I went to a woman from the Banû Qays to delouse my head, then I made the Talbiya for Hajj. I advised this to people until the caliphate when a man said to me: "O Abu Musa! - or O 'Abdoullâh Ibn Qays - Stop some of your advice, because you do not know what the emir of the Believers innovated after you about these rites of Hajj and 'Umra". Abou Moûsa then addressed the faithful by saying: "O people! Let him to whom I have given advice, be patient and do not follow him because the emir of the Believers will come to you soon. So follow his sentence". When (may God be pleased with him) arrived, I told him the fact and he replied: "As for the Book of God (the Koran), it orders us to perform the rites in full. And if we put the Sunnah into practice, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) did not leave the state of sacralization before the sacrificial animal had reached its place of immolation".
2145. According to (may God be pleased with him), Abu Musa advised the practice of Tamattu' (separating the performance of the 'Umra from that of the Hajj by desacralization). A man said to him: "Be careful what you say! Don't you know that the emir of the Believers has introduced certain innovations in the rites of Hajj and 'Umra". Later, Abu Musa met 'Umar and asked him about this. - "I know, he replied, that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and his companions practiced it, but I reproach that the pilgrims have carnal relations with their wives in the shade of the trees, then that they continue the rites of Hajj having their heads dripping with water (due to major ablutions)". Permission to do Hajj and 'Umrah together Permission to leave ihram in Tamattu type Hajj
2146. According to 'Abdoullâh Ibn Chaqîq, proscribed the Tamattu' (separating the accomplishment of the 'Umra from that of the Hajj by desacralization); as recommended. After speaking with said: "Do you know that this was practiced during the lifetime of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)?". replied: "It's true, but we were afraid".
2153. Mutarrif reports that 'Imran Ibn Husayn said to him: "I bring you today the hadith which you will benefit from later. Know that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had authorized his relatives to undertake an 'Umra during the first ten days of dhûl-hijja (devoted to Hajj), which was neither abrogated by a Koranic verse nor struck by a prohibition on the part of the Prophet during his lifetime. Yet people afterwards had the most diverse opinions about it." Obligation to sacrifice for one who enjoys a normal life during Hajj of the Tamattu' type and if he does not find something to sacrifice, he must fast three days during Hajj and seven others when he returns home
2159. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: During the Hajj of farewell, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) practiced Tamattu' by separating the performance of the 'Umrah from that of Hajj by desacralization during the months devoted to Hajj, he carried an offering of Dhûl-Hulayfa. He began first by pronouncing the Talbiya for the 'Umrah, then for the Hajj. People also performed Umrah separate from Hajj with him. There were among them those who had animals to sacrifice that they had brought with them and others who had no offerings. When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) arrived in Mecca, he said: "Whoever has an offering, let him sacrifice it and do not leave the state of ihram before performing the Hajj. As for the one who does not have an animal to sacrifice, let him complete the ritual rounds around the House and the route between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa then shorten his hair and leave the Hajj. state of ihram, then he makes the Talbiya for the Hajj and immolates his sacrificial beast and if he does not find an offering, he fasts three days during the Hajj and seven others when he returns home" . When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) arrived in Mecca, he first touched the corner of the Black Stone, then quickened his steps during the first three turns around the Ka'ba and walked for the other four, then, he made two rak'ahs near the station of Abraham ('Ibrâhîm), made the taslîm and left. Then, he completed the journey between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa seven times and he left the state of ihram only after having accomplished his Hajj, sacrificed his offering on the day of sacrifice and made the rounds of the surge. As soon as he had finished these last rounds around the House, he was desacralized. Those who had animals to sacrifice, did as the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him).
2160. Narrative reported from 'Aisha, the Prophet's wife, ( رضي الله عنها ): The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) practiced Tamattu 'by separating the performance of 'Umra from that of Hajj by desacralization during the months devoted to Hajj. And people followed his example. The one who joins his 'Umra to his Hajj should not leave the state of ihram before the one who makes the Hajj only
2161. Hafsa, the Prophet's wife, ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "O Messenger of God, why have the faithful left the state of ihram, when you have not left it yet". - "I slicked my hair, he replied; and I put a garland around the neck of my offering, so I will not leave the ihram until after its immolation". Permission to desacralize by impediment and to unite Hajj and 'Umra
2164. According to Nâfi', 'Abdoullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), having gone to Mecca to perform the 'Umra at the time of the troubles, said: "If I am prevented from reaching the House, I will do as we did with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". So he did ihram for 'Umrah. And when he was near Al-Baydâ', he turned to his companions saying: "Both (the Hajj and the 'Umra) arise from the same command. I therefore take you as witnesses that I intend to perform Hajj with 'Umra". Then he left. Arrived in Mecca, he made seven tours around the House and seven times the route between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa, without adding anything (he made only once the seven tours around the House and the seven routes between the two mountains to perform the rites of Hajj and 'Umrah at the same time, instead of doing them twice), and believed that this was enough. Then he immolated his offering. Hajj and 'Umra can be performed separately or together
2168. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) perform the Talbiya for Hajj and 'Umrah together. Ritual rounds and journey between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa that the faithful must accomplish pronouncing the Talbiya for Hajj and reaching Mecca thereafter
2172. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "Arriving in Mecca, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made the ritual rounds around the House seven times, prayed two rak'ahs behind the Station of Abraham ('Ibrâhîm) and traveled seven times between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa. Indeed, you have in the Messenger of God an excellent model to follow". What a man must do in the state of ihram, as ritual rounds and journeys when he arrives in Mecca
2173. 'A'isha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "The first thing that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) did on arriving in Makkah was to perform ablution; then to circle around the House ."
2175. Abdullah, the freedman of Asma bint 'Abi Bakr, reports that he heard Asma say whenever she passed by Al-Hajuwn: "May the peace and blessings of God be upon His Prophet! We have made stopover here with him. That day, we had little luggage, few mounts and few provisions. My sister, Az-Zubayr, so-and-so, and I, we made the Talbiya for the 'Umra. Having finished the rites of this one, we left the ihram, then in the evening we made the Talbiya for the Hajj". Enjoyment of a normal life between 'Umra and Hajj of the Tamattu type'
2177. Narrative narrated from Ibn 'Abbas ( رضي الله عنهما ): The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) performed Talbiya for 'Umra and his companions performed it for Hajj. Neither the Prophet (peace be upon him) nor those who had brought animals to sacrifice among his companions left the ihram. While the other companions left him. Talha Ibn 'Ubaydillah was among those who had brought animals to sacrifice, so he had not left the ihram. Permission to perform 'Umra during the months of Hajj
2178. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: (Before Islam) performing 'Umra during the months dedicated to Hajj was considered to be the greatest ignominy on earth; one called muharram (first month of the Islamic calendar) safar (second month of the same calendar) and one said: "When the wounds of the back of the camel heal, that there are no traces left and that safar ends, then the performance of the Umrah becomes lawful for those who desire it". The Prophet (peace be upon him) and his companions arrived on the morning of the fourth day (of dhûl-hijja) doing the Talbiya for Hajj. The Prophet ordered them to transform the Talbiya by making it for 'Umra, which annoyed them. They then said: "O Messenger of God! To what degree should one leave ihram?". - "You have to leave him completely", he answered. Putting a garland on the sacrificial beast and bleeding it during ihram
2184. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made the zhuhr (noon) prayer in Dhûl-Hulayfa, then ordered that a camel. He cut her on the right side of her bump, wiped away the blood and put a garland around her neck. He then mounted his mount and rode away. When this brought him near Al-Baydâ', he made the Talbiya for the Hajj. Shortening of hair in the 'Umra
2188. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ): Mu'âwiya said to him: "Do you know that I shortened the hair of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), while 'he was in Al-Marwa, using an arrow with a broad blade. I said to him: "This did not come to my attention, you are the only one to bring it to me". The Talbiya of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and his sacrificial beast
2193. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: When came from Yemen, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "How did you pronounce the Talbiya (did having the intention to perform Hajj and 'Umrah together or Hajj and 'Umrah each separately)?". He replied, "As the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) did exactly (i.e. performing Hajj and 'Umrah together)". - "If I did not have an offering, continued the Prophet, I would have already left the ihram".
2194. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: "I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) doing Talbiya for Hajj and 'Umra both together". Number and dates of 'Umra performed by the Prophet (peace be upon him)
2197. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) made 'Umra four times, all during the month of dhûl-qi'da, with the exception of the one he made in conjunction with his Hajj. They are as follows: the 'Umrah of Al-Hudaybiya or performed at the time of Al-Hudaybiya in the month of dhûl-qi'da; that of the following year during the month of dhûl-qi'da; that of Al-Ji'râna, during the division of the booty, coming from Hunayn; and that performed with his Hajj alone.
2198. Abu 'Ishâq said: I asked Zayd Ibn Arqam: "How many expeditions have you participated in with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)?". - "At seventeen", he answered. Zayd Ibn Arqam told me that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made nineteen military expeditions and that after the hegira he performed Hajj only once, that of farewell.
2199. 'Urwa Ibn Az-Zubayr said: Ibn 'Umar and I were sitting with our backs to 'Aisha's room as we heard the noise she was making, cleaning her teeth with the aid of the siwak. Having questioned Abu 'Abdurrahmân to find out if the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had performed the 'Umra during the month of rajab. He answered: "Yes". I said to 'Aïcha: "O mother, don't you hear what Abu 'Abdourrahmân is saying?" - "And what is he saying?", she asked . - "He says, I resumed, that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had performed an 'Umra in the month of rajab". - "May God have mercy on Abu 'Abd Ar-Rahman, said 'Aisha; I swear it! The Prophet never performed 'Umra during the month of rajab and never performed an 'Umra without him (Abu 'Abdurrahman) accompanies him". He added: "So Ibn 'Umar heard without affirming or disputing, but keeping silence". Merit of 'Umra in the month of Ramadan
2201. 'Atâ' reports from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to a woman of the 'Ansar -whose name Ibn 'Abbas mentioned that I had forgotten- " What prevented you from performing Hajj with us?". - "We only had, she replied, two camels to carry the water". Her husband and son rode one to go to Hajj and left them the other to carry water. - "Well!, said the Prophet, when the month of Ramadan comes, perform the 'Umra; because during Ramadan it is equivalent to a Hajj". Recommendation to take the highest defile to enter Makkah and the lower defile to exit it
2203. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) left (from Medina) by the way of Ash-Chajara and returned there by that of Al- Mu’arras; and he entered Mecca by the highest defile; and came out of it by the lowest defile.
2204. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) reached Mecca, he entered it by the highest defile; and left it by the highest defile. low". Recommendation to spend the night in Dhi Tawa when you want to enter Makkah during the day
2206. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) spent the night in Dhî Tawâ, and in the morning he entered Mecca.
2209. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) faced the two mounds of the mountain which were between him and the high mountain towards the direction of the Ka'ba; by making sure that the left side of the mosque which was built at the end of the hill and the oratory of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him) are against the bottom of the black mound. When he prayed there, he deviated from the mound approximately ten cubits and took for Qibla the two mounds of the high mountain which is between you and the Ka'ba. Recommendation to walk with quick steps during ritual rounds, 'Umrah and during the first Hajj rounds
2210. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), when the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) made the first ritual rounds around the House, he trotted during the first three and walked during the four others. He also ran in the heart of the valley when he made the course between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa.
2217. Ibn Tufayl questioned Ibn 'Abbas, saying, "Is brisk walking during the first three ritual rounds around the House, and normal walking during the other four, a Sunnah? For, your tribe claims that it is from the Sunna". He answered: "They told the truth and they lied". I replied: "How come they are truthful and liars at the same time?". Ibn 'Abbas said: When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) came to Mecca (with his companions), the polytheists who envied him then said: "Muhammad and his companions cannot do the ritual rounds around the House, because of their weakness". So, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered his companions to walk with quick steps during the first three rounds, then to walk at a normal pace during the other four ". I asked him to inform me whether the course between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa on horseback was Sunna; as long as his tribe claimed that it was. He answered: "They told the truth and they lied". I replied: "How that, they are truthful and liars at the same time?" He (Ibn 'Abbas) then said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) (having come to Mecca), saw huge crowds surrounded him saying, There is Muhammad! That's Muhammad!, even the virgins came out of their homes (to have a look at him). As the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was gentle with people, they did not stray to make way for him. Unable to walk, he straddled his mount. But, it is better to walk and do this route". Recommendation to touch the two Yemeni corners during the ritual tours
2222. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "I have never seen the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) touch anything in the House other than the two Yemeni corners". Recommendation to kiss the Black Stone during ritual rounds
2228. 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb kissed the Black Stone, saying: "By God! I know well that you are only a stone. And if I had not seen the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him) to kiss you, I would never have kissed you". Permission to tour, ride a camel, and touch the Stone with a cane
2233. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "During the Hajj of farewell, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made the ritual rounds on his camel and touched the Black Stone on the using a stick with a curved end".
2238. Oum Salama ( رضي الله عنها ) said: I complained to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) of an illness, he advised me saying: "Do the ritual rounds on a horse in putting you behind everyone". This is what I did, while the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was praying next to the House, reciting Surah At-Tur. Journey between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa is a sine qua non of Hajj
2239. reported that he said to 'Aisha: "I believe that there is no harm if a man does not make the journey between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa". She answered: "How then?". I replied: Because God said in this verse: As-Safâ and Al-Marwa are indeed among the sacred places of God... she said to me: "God does not count as accomplished the Hajj or the ' Umra of anyone, if he does not make the journey between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa. If it were as you have just said, God would have said: He does not commit a sin if he does not go back and forth between these two mountains.This verse was revealed because the 'Ansar, in pre-Islamic times, made the Talbiya in favor of the two idols which were by the sea, named 'Isaf and Na'ila; then came to go back and forth between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa and finally cut their hair.At the advent of Islam, they were reluctant to do this course because of what they were doing in Ignorance. God then revealed: As-Safâ and Al-Marwa are truly among the sacred places of God... until the end of the verse. So they were completing this course".
2243. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the 'Ansâr were reluctant to go back and forth between As-Safâ and Al-Marwa until the revelation of this verse: As-Safâ and Al-Marwa are truly among the holy places of God. So whoever does Hajj at Home or performs 'Umrah does not commit a sin by going back and forth between these two mountains. Recommendation to the pilgrim to repeat his Talbiya until the stoning at Al-Jamra of Al-'Aqaba on the day of the sacrifice
2245. Usâma Ibn Zayd (may God be pleased with him) said: I rode behind the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) when he left Arrived at the mountain path located on the left below Al-Muzdalifa, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) rode his camel. After satisfying his natural needs, he came and I poured him water for his ablution. When he had made a light ablution, I said to him: "Are you going to pray, O Messenger of God?". - "The prayer, he replied, will be done there in front of you". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then mounted his mount and, having arrived at Al-Muzdalifa, he prayed there. It was then Al-Fadl who rode behind the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) on the morning of the meeting of the faithful (at Al-Muzdalifa).
2246. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abbas ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) did not stop repeating the Talbiya until he threw the stones at Al-Jamra (from Al-'Aqaba). Talbiya and takbîr when going from Mina to 'Arafa, on the day of 'Arafa
2254. Muhammad Ibn 'Abî Bakr Ath-Thaqafi reports that he asked Anas Ibn Mâlik, as they were both going from Mina to the following question: "How did you do on this day with the Messenger of God (peace and blessing of God upon him)?". - "The one of us, he replied, who wanted to do the Talbiya did it without anyone finding fault with it; the one of us who wanted to do the takbîr did it without being reproached". Surge of 'Arafa in Al-Muzdalifa and recommendation to make both the two prayers of maghrib and 'isha
2262. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) descended from while 'Usâma was behind him. Then, 'Usama continued, he followed the same course until he arrived at Al-Muzdalifa.
2263. 'Urwa Ibn Az-Zubayr said: "I was present when they questioned 'Usâma - or I questioned Usâma Ibn Zayd - who was behind the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him ) when he departed from 'Arafa-, on the march of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) when he had descended from 'Arafa". "He was going, he replied, at an average pace, but he accelerated his walk when he found a stretch of land".
2264. Abu Ayyoub (may God be pleased with him) reports that during the farewell Hajj, he made the two prayers of maghrib and 'isha' together with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) at Al-Muzdalifa. Recommendation to perform the fajr prayer very early on the day of the sacrifice at Al-Muzdalifa even before the light of dawn
2270. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: "I have never seen the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) perform prayers except at their fixed times , with the exception of two prayers gathered at Al-Muzdalifa: that of maghrib and that of 'isha' (the day of the sacrifice) and he made the prayer of fajr on that day before his fixed hour". Recommendation to send the weak women of Al-Muzdalifa to Mina at the end of the night to avoid the rush and leave the others to Al-Muzdalifa to perform the fajr (dawn) prayer there
2271. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: On the night of Al-Muzdalifa, Sawda asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) for permission to go ahead of him and begin the march (towards Mina) before the crush of the crowds, because she was big and heavy, -according to Al-Qâsim- (and she walked with difficulty). And the Prophet to consent. So she started walking, while he held us back until morning to slide down with him. 'A'isha added, "If I had asked for this permission from the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) like Sawda did and started walking and descending after I got it, it would have caused me incomparable joy".
2274. According to 'Abdullâh, the freedman of Asma, Asma asked me while she was installed near Al-Muzdalifa: "Has the moon waned?". - "Not yet", I answered. She began to pray for a moment, she asked again: "My dear child, has the moon waned?" - "Yes", I replied. "So, said Asma, let's go!" And we left (until we arrived at Mina where) she threw the pebbles. Back home, Asma said the prayer (fajr). - "My dear aunt!, I said to her, it seems to me that (for the throwing of pebbles) we were still in darkness (i.e. too soon)". - "My dear child, she replied, it is the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who allowed the women to travel".
2277. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sent me during the night of (stay in Al-Muzdalifa) to head the luggage -or of the weak-".
2281. Sâlim Ibn 'Abdullâh reports that 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar sent forward, in the night, the weak of his family to stand on Al-Mach'ar Al-Harâm at Al-Muzdalifa, (station of the Hajj located between 'Arafa and Mina, in Mecca where fires were lit to guide pilgrims during the night). They mentioned God there as much as they wanted; then began the march before the imam stood up and began to surge. There are among them those who went to Mina to perform the fajr (dawn) prayer, and those who arrived there later. As soon as they arrived, they started throwing stones. Ibn 'Umar said that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had granted this authorization to these people. Stoning at "Al-Jamra Al-Kubrâ" from the bottom of the valley with Mecca on the left and pronouncing the takbîr at the throw of each pebble
2282. 'Abdurrahmân Ibn Yazid reports that the pebbles were thrown from the bottom of the valley. As he said to him: "O Abu 'Abdourrahmân! There are people who throw them from the top of the valley"; 'Abdurrahmân Ibn Mas'oud answered: "By God, the One! It is the place (where stood) the one to whom God revealed Surat Al-Baqara". It is better to shave than to shorten the hair, it being however allowed
2292. Narrative reported from 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ): the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had his head shaved; so did a certain group of his companions. Others cut their hair short. reports that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said once or twice: "May God have mercy on those who shave their heads"; then, added "And to those who shorten their hair".
2295. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "O my Lord! Forgive those who shave their heads". - "O Messenger of God! And to those who shorten their hair?" said the companions. - "O Lord! Forgive those who shave their heads", repeated the Prophet. - "O Messenger of God! And to those who shorten their hair?", repeated the companions. - "O my Lord! Forgive those who shave their heads", repeated the Prophet again. - "O Messenger of God! And to those who shorten their hair?" repeated the companions. - "And to those who shorten their hair", finally said the Prophet.
2297. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had his head shaved during Hajj (farewell)". The order according to the Sunnah is to stone on the day of the sacrifice, then to sacrifice, then to shave starting from the right side
2298. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) arrived in Mina, he went to Al-Jamra and threw stones. Then, he went to his home in Mina and slaughtered his beast of sacrifice, then he said to the barber: "Cut", indicating to him (to start with) the right side then the left side and he began to distribute his hair to the faithful. The one who shaves before sacrificing or immolates before stoning
2301. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr Ibn Al-'As (may God be pleased with him), During the Hajj of farewell, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) stood among the people to Mina to ask questions. A man came and said: "O Messenger of God! By mistake, I had my head shaved before slaughtering my offering". He replied: "Immolate and there is no sin". Another came to say to him: "O Messenger of God! By mistake, I slaughtered my offering before throwing the pebbles". He replied, "Go throw it away and there is no sin." To any question asked about an act anticipated or delayed, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "Do this and there is no sin".
2306. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was asked about the order to be observed in performing these acts: the cutting of the throat of the sacrifice, the shaving of the hair and the throwing of pebbles and he answered: "There is no sin". On the day of the sacrifice, it is recommended to do the ritual rounds after surging
2308. 'Abd Al-'Azîz Ibn Rufay' said: I questioned Anas Ibn Mâlik, asking him to inform me of what he knew about the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "Where, I asked him, did he perform the prayer of zhuhr on the day of At-Tarwiya (the eighth day of dhûl-hijja)?" He replied: "to Mina". - "Where did he accomplish that of 'asr on the day of An-Nafr (the day of departure from Mina after the performance of the rites)?", I continued. - "At Al-'Abtah", he replied, then he added: "Do as your emirs do". Recommendation to get off at "Al-Muhassab" and make a prayer, leaving Mina for Makkah
2309. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Messenger of God, Abu Bakr and were stopping at Al-'Abtah".
2311. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "The halt made at Al-'Abtah is not a tradition to be followed. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made it, for it was easier for him to leave there whenever he wanted".
2313. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "To stop at Al-Muhassab is nothing (from the point of view of Shari'ah). It is only a place where the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has stopped over".
2315. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Tomorrow, God willing, we will go down to Khayf Banû Kinâna where they exchanged oaths of infidelity". Obligation to spend the night in Mina on the day of "At-Tachrîq" and permission to leave it to those who give pilgrims drink
2318. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), "Al-'Abbâs' Ibn 'Abd Al-Muttalib asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) for permission to spend the night at La Makkah during the nights of Mina, because of his duties as a water supplier. Permission was granted to him." Give alms from the flesh of sacrificed animals, their skins and their caparisons
2320. (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) gave me charge of his camels (intended for sacrifice) and ordered me to give their flesh, their skins and their caparisons in charity; without giving any of it to the butcher, saying to myself: "We will pay him". Make a common offering and recompense of those who, seven in number, immolate a cow or a camel
2322. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "In the year of Al-Hudaybiya, we immolated together with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) a camel in the name of seven ( people) and a cow in the name of seven (people)". Slaughter the camel standing and tied up
2330. Ziyad Ibn Jubayr said: Ibn 'Umar passed by a man who was in the process of sacrificing his camel (offered as a sacrifice) by holding it pointed. He said to him: "Have him stand on four feet, while binding him, in accordance with the Sunnah of your Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". Anyone who cannot go and cut the throat of his offering himself is authorized to send it to the place where the sacrifice is made and it is recommended to mark the animal with a garland.
2331. According to 'A'isha ( رضي الله عنها ), "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sent his sacrificed animals from Medina. It was I who braided the garlands of these victims for him ( which he put around their necks to mark them). Afterwards, he did not abstain from anything from which one abstains during ihram". Permission to whoever offers an animal to ride it
2342. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having seen a man leading a camel destined for sacrifice by the halter, said to him: "Mount her ". - "O Messenger of God, it is an offering", answered the man. - "Mount it, then", repeated the Prophet, adding the second or third time: "Woe to you!".
2344. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having passed by a man who was leading an animal to be sacrificed by the halter, said to him: "Get on the". - "It's a beast to be sacrificed", answered the man. - "Lift it up", repeated the Prophet to him two or three times. Obligation to do the Farewell rounds and to dispense the indisposed woman
2350. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: (At the time of departure, people used to take various directions, the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) ordered them not to not go home before making the last rounds around the House. Recommendation to the pilgrim and others to enter the Ka'ba, make prayers there and invoke God in all places
2358. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) entered the Ka'ba in the company of 'Usâma, Bilâl and 'Uthmân Ibn Talha Al-Hajabî, closed his door and stayed there. Ibn 'Omar added: I asked Bilâl, when he left: "What did the Messenger of God do there?". He replied: "He prayed there with two columns on his left: one on his right and three behind him". The House was then built on six columns.
2364. Ibn Jurayj informs us that he once said to 'Atâ': Did you not hear Ibn 'Abbas say: "You were ordered to perform the ritual rounds around the Ka'ba but we didn't order you to enter it?". - "Ibn 'Abbâs did not mean by that to prohibit the entrance to the Sacred House, replied 'Atâ', because I heard him report from Usâma Ibn Zayd, that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him), on entering the Ka'ba, had invoked God in all its corners without making the prayer there. But, on his exit, he made two rak'ahs in front of the House and said: is the Qibla. When I asked him about its dimensions and if it is about its corners, he answered: It is rather about all the places of the House".
2365. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) entered the Ka'ba which was then erected on six columns. He stood beside a column and began to make invocations, without making a prayer.
2366. Ismâ'îl Ibn 'Abi Khâlid said: "I asked 'Abdoullâh Ibn 'Abi 'Awfâ, the companion of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), if the Prophet had entered the Ka'ba during his 'Umra, and he answered me in the negative". Destruction and reconstruction of the Ka'ba
2367. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to me: "If your people had not recently left polytheism, I would have destroyed the Ka 'ba and would have rebuilt on the foundations (of that built) by Abraham ('Ibrâhîm), because when the Quraysh had built the House, they had reduced its dimensions, and I would also have made a door behind". One who does not perform Hajj due to infirmity, old age or death
2375. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), Al-Fadl Ibn 'Abbâs was behind the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). A woman from Khath'am having come to consult him, Al-Fadl and she began to look at each other. And the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) began to turn Al-Fadl's face to the opposite side. The woman then said: “O Messenger of God! The obligation to perform Hajj prescribed by God to His Servants applies to my father; but this one is an elderly old man unable to stand on his mount. I perform Hajj for him?". - "Yes", answered the Prophet. This took place during the farewell Hajj.
2376. According to Al-Fadl (may God be pleased with him), A woman from Khath'am said: "O Messenger of God! The obligation to perform the Hajj prescribed by God to His servants reaches my father who is a aged old man unable to stand on his mount". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then replied: "Perform the Hajj for him". Hajj must be performed (at least) once in life
2380. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace be upon him) preached to us saying: "O people! God has prescribed Hajj for you, therefore perform it". A man asked: "Do we have to do it every year, O Messenger of God?" The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) remained silent, and the man repeated his question. On the third time, the Messenger of God (the Most High) said: "If I say yes, it will be obligatory and you will no longer be able to do it". Then he added: "Leave me (don't ask me too many questions) as long as I leave you (as long as I don't make remarks to you), because what caused the loss of those who preceded you, it was the "excess of questions and their differences on their Prophets. So do what I command you as much as you can and abstain from all that I forbid you". Journey of the woman to perform the Hajj in the company of a man forbidden in marriage
2381. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A woman should not undertake a journey of more than three days unless accompanied by 'a relative who is forbidden to him in marriage (mahram)'.
2383. According to Abu Sa'id (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Strap your mounts only to go to three mosques: my mosque here is , the Sacred Mosque (of Mecca) and the Al-'Aqsa Mosque". I also heard him say: "Let the woman not undertake a journey of more than two days unless she is accompanied by a relative who is forbidden to her in marriage or by her husband".
2386. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "It is not lawful for a Muslim woman to undertake a journey (d 'a day and) a night of walking without being accompanied by a relative who is forbidden to marry'.
2390. Narrative reported from Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him): The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "It is not lawful for a woman who believes in God and on the Day of Judgment to undertake a journey of more than three days without being accompanied by her father, her son, her husband, her brother or a relative who is forbidden to her in marriage".
2391. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say, during a sermon: "Let no man enter a woman's house if she is alone without a relative who is forbidden to her in marriage. And let no woman undertake a journey without being accompanied by a relative who is forbidden to her in marriage". A man then stood up and said: "O Messenger of God! My wife has gone on a pilgrimage and I have registered myself in such and such an expedition". - "Go there to accomplish the Hajj with your wife", replied the Prophet. What is said when returning from the Hajj trip or others
2394. Ibn 'Umar (May God be pleased with him) said: Whenever the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) returned from battle, expedition, Hajj or ' Umra, and approaching very close to a pass or a small hill, he proclaimed the greatness of God (the takbîr) three times and said: "There is no God but God; "Unique Who has no partner; to Him belongs the supreme power and to Him the praise. He is Omnipotent. We return to God, we repent to Him, we worship only Him, we do not prostrate only before Him and we only praise Him. God has fulfilled His promise. He has made His Servant victorious and He alone has routed the Allies".
2395. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: We, Abu Talha and I, were returning in the company of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who was riding his camel with Safiyya behind him. When we overlooked Medina, the Prophet began to say: "We return to God, we repent to Him, we worship only Him and we praise only Him". He kept repeating this until we arrived in Medina. Remains in "Dhûl-Hulayfa" if he finishes the Hajj or the 'Umra
2396. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made his camel kneel at Al-Bathâ' (depression of land) located in Dhûl-Hulayfa and prayed there.
2399. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), One (heavenly inspiration) came to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who was then at his evening camp at Dhûl-Hulayfa and they said to him: "You are in a blessed valley". A polytheist should not perform Hajj, a naked man should not circle around the Ka'ba. Hajj day
2401. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: "During the Hajj taking place before the farewell and presided over by Abu Bakr As-Siddiq, by order of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). -there charged me to be at the head of the group of ordained heralds to let the people know, on the day of the feast of the sacrifice, that from this year onwards it is not permissible for either a polytheist to make the Hajj, nor for a naked man to make the ritual rounds around the House." Merit of Hajj, 'Umrah and the day of 'Arafa
2403. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The 'Umrah erases the sins committed in the interval separating it from another and the piously accomplished Hajj will have no other reward than Paradise".
2404. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) said: "Whoever goes to this House (with the intention of performing Hajj) and abstains from uttering obscenities or committing immodest acts, will return (absolved from sins) as he was on the day his mother brought him into the world". The pilgrim descending to Mecca and the succession of his dwellings
2405. According to Usâma Ibn Zayd Ibn Hâritha (may God be pleased with him), I asked the Messenger of God: "Are you going to stay in your house (which you left during the hegira) in La Mecca?". - (a usurper) left us dwellings or houses?!", replied the Prophet. Authorization to the pilgrim to stay only three days in Mecca after the rites of Hajj or 'Umra
2408. Al-'Alâ' Ibn Al-Hadramî (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "To the Muhâjir (the emigrant) of stay three days in Mecca after the completion of the rites (of Hajj and 'Umra)". Mecca is a sacred territory where one should neither hunt, nor remove grass, nor cut trees, nor seize the things found for eternity.
2412. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said on the day of the capture of Mecca: "From now on, there will be no place to emigration, but rather a fight and an intention. And if you are invited to jihad, take part in it". He added again on the day of the capture of Mecca: "This country, God made it sacred, the day when He created the heavens and the earth. This territory will remain sacred by the order of God until the Day of the Resurrection. No one before me was permitted to fight there and the duration of this authorization does not exceed a certain period of time. This territory will remain sacred by the order of God until the Day of Resurrection. One should not cut his thorns, nor frighten his game, nor pick up found objects unless it is to return them to their owners, nor pull up his fresh herbs". Al-'Abbas then said to him: "O Messenger of God! Make an exception for Idhkhir (a plant of the family of grasses with an aromatic smell) which is used in certain industries (such as goldsmithery and forges) and in the houses". - "Except Idhkhir", he added.
2413. Narrative reported from Abu Churayh Al-'Adawî (may God be pleased with him): He said to 'Amr Ibn Sa'îd who was sending the troops to Mecca: "O Prince! Allow me to bring you a hadith that the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) had said the day after the day of the conquest (of Makkah) My ears heard this hadith and my heart retained it well; my eyes have seen (the Prophet) saying it". After praising and exalting God, the Prophet said: "It is God, and not men, who has made the territory of Mecca sacred. Any man who believes in God and the Day of Judgment is prohibited from shed blood there or cut down its trees. allowed His Messenger and He forbade you. Indeed, He only allowed me for a certain period of time. Makkah has now regained its yesterday's sanctity. he who is present transmits it to the absent".
2414. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: When God the Almighty granted the Messenger of God victory in the conquest of Makkah, the Messenger of God stood up among the crowd, praised God , proclaimed His glory and said: "God has preserved the Mecca of the Elephant (Allusion to the invasion of Abraha); but He has made the Messenger of God and the Believers masters of this city. It has been made inviolable for all those who have preceded me; it has only ceased to be sacred for me for a certain period of time, and it will never cease to be so after me for anyone. It is prohibited to scare its game , to cut its thorns, to collect the objects which one finds there if not to announce their find to their owners. acceptance of blood money or the exercise of retaliation against the murderer". - "O Messenger of God! Make an exception for Idhkhir, asked Ibn 'Abbas, because we make use of this plant in our tombs and our houses". - "Exception is made for Idhkhir", replied the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). Then a man from Yemen, Abou Châh stood up and said: “O Messenger of God! Let me write this down”. - "Put this in writing for Abou Châh!", ordered the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him). Permission to enter Makkah from outside the state of Ihram
2417. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), In the year of the Conquest, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) entered Mecca, wearing a helmet on his head . As he took it off, a man came and said to him: "Ibn Khatal clung to the cover of the Ka'ba". - "Kill him anyway", said the Prophet. (NB: Ibn Khatal who composed satires against the Prophet, thought he was inviolable by hanging on in this way). Merit of Medina, of the invocation of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) so that God makes it a blessed city and of what is not allowed to be done there
2422. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Zayd Ibn 'Asim (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Abraham ('Ibrâhîm) declared Mecca sacred and invoked God on behalf of its inhabitants; and I declared Medina sacred as Abraham ('Ibrâhîm) had declared Mecca sacred and I prayed that its sâ' (Medinan measure of grains equivalent to 4 mudd) and its mudd (Medinan measure of grains equivalent to the content of 2 handfuls or a quarter of Sâ' approximately) be doubly blessed, as Abraham ('Ibrâhîm) had prayed for the inhabitants of Mecca".
2429. says: "I asked Anas Ibn Malik whether the Messenger of God had made Medina sacred?". He answered: "Yes, from such to such a place. Whoever commits a sin or turpitude there - adding that this is serious, he repeated - whoever commits a sin or turpitude there, will incur the curse of God, of the angels and of all men, and on the Day of Resurrection God will accept neither repentance nor redemption from him".
2432. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: “Lord! which You have already granted in Makkah".
2433. Yazîd Ibn Charîk Ibn Târiq said: 'Alî Ibn 'Abi Tâlib gave us a sermon, saying: "Whoever claims that we have something else to read than the Book of God and what is recorded on this sheet - attached in the scabbard of his sword - is a liar. This sheet contains prescriptions relating to the age of camels (for the tariffs of the tax) and the prices of wounds. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) establishes the sanctity of the territory of Medina comprised between and Thawr. Whoever commits any sin or turpitude therein, or gives refuge to anyone who has committed any sin or turpitude, shall incur the curse of God, of the angels, and of all men, and in the day of Resurrection, God will not accept from him either repentance or redemption. All Muslims have the right to the same protection, even the most humble among them. Whoever is related to someone other than his father, or chooses other patrons than his own, will incur the curse of God, of the angels and of all men, and on the Day of Resurrection God will accept neither repentance nor redemption from him".
2434. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Medina is a sacred territory. Whoever commits any sin or turpitude there, or gives refuge whoever has committed any sin or turpitude will incur the curse of God, of the angels and of all men, and on the day of Resurrection neither repentance nor redemption will be accepted from him." Incitement to remain in Medina and constancy during any calamity
2444. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: We came to Medina when it was unsanitary, and Abu Bakr and Bilal fell ill. When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) noticed the illness of his companions, he invoked God in these terms: "Lord! Make us have for Medina the same affection that we have for Mecca or an affection livelier still, make it salubrious, bless for us its sâ' and its mudd (two measures of grain) and divert the epidemic which infects it towards Al-Juhfa". Preservation of Medina against the plague and against the entry of the Antichrist
2449. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "At the head of the accesses and passages of Medina, there are angels, therefore neither the plague nor the Antichrist can penetrate it". Medina expels the perverts
2451. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A time will come when a man will call his cousin and his relative saying: Come enjoy prosperity! Come and enjoy prosperity! Medina would be better for them, if they knew it. By Him who holds my soul in His hands, no one leaves it without God installing in his place another better Medina is like the bellows of the smith who expels impurities (allusion to the disbelievers and the hypocrites). that the bellows eliminates the iron slag".
2453. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), a Bedouin took an oath of loyalty to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), then was stricken with fever in Medina. He went to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) and said to him: "O Muhammad! Acquit me of my oath". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having refused, the man returned once again to ask the Prophet to acquit him of his oath. On the refusal of the Prophet, he returned again and asked to have discharged his oath. As the Prophet insisted on his refusal, the Bedouin left. "Medina, said the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him), is comparable to the bellows of a forge which drives out its dross and brings out its pure metal".
2454. According to Zayd Ibn Thâbit (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: “Medina is healthy. . Whoever wants to harm the people of Medina, God will melt him
2458. According to Sa'd Ibn 'Abî Waqqâs (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever seeks to harm the inhabitants of Medina, God will melt him like salt melts in water". Encouragement to stay in Medina when conquering other territories
2459. Story reported from Sufyân Ibn 'Abi Zuhayr (may God be pleased with him): The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When Syria is conquered, people will leave Medina with their families to go there and encourage others to join them, yet Medina would be better for them, if they knew. Then when Yemen is conquered, people will leave Medina with their families to go there and will encourage others to join them; yet Medina would be better for them, if they knew. Then when Iraq is conquered, people will leave Medina with their families to go there and encourage others to join them; yet Medina would be better for them, if they knew". Medina when it will be deserted
2461. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The inhabitants of Medina will abound it despite the good it contains; and will leave it deserted to ferocious beasts and raptors in search of their food". Between the tomb and the pulpit, a garden of Paradise
2463. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Zayd Al-Mâzinî (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "In the space between my dwelling and my minbar, there is one of the gardens of Paradise".
2465. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There is one of the gardens of Paradise in the space between my dwelling and my minbar which overlooks my Basin". Affection towards Mount 'Uhud
2466. According to Abu Humayd (may God be pleased with him), We made with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) the expedition of Tabuk. Arrived at the valley of Al-Qurâ, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "I will force the step, whoever among you wants it, that he hasten to accompany me; and that 'they remain those who want to stay'. So we went and when we were within walking distance of Medina, the Prophet said: "Here is Taba; and here is 'Uhud, it is a mountain that loves us and that we love".
2467. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "'Uhud is a mountain that loves us and that we love". Merit of prayer in the two mosques of Mecca and Medina
2469. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A prayer said in my mosque here is worth more than a thousand others made in any other mosque, except for the Sacred Mosque". We only strap the saddles for three mosques
2475. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Strap your mounts only to go to three mosques: my mosque here, the Sacred Mosque, and the Al-'Aqsa Mosque". Merit of the mosque of Quba', its visit and the performance of the prayer in which
2478. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was going to the mosque of Qubâ', either on his horse or on foot". The authentic of Muslim 16 - Marriage Recommendation that one gets married, when one covets the marriage and one assures the marriage otherwise one fasts
2485. Narrated 'Abdullâh ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: I was walking with Mina when he met who asked to speak to him. Then both putting aside, said to "O Abu 'Abdourrahmân! Don't you want to marry a young girl who will remind you of your former youth?". answered him: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to us: O young people! Whoever among you has the physical capacity and the financial means necessary for constrain lustful looks and preserve chastity. As for him who does not have the means, let him fast, for fasting will protect him against temptation".
2487. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), a group of the companions of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) asked his wives about his intimate practices. One of them says: "I practice abstinence", another says: "And I don't eat meat anymore", and a third: "As for me, I never sleep on a bed". The Messenger of God, having heard them, began by praising God and exalting Him, then said: "What is the matter with those people who have just said such and such a thing? As for me, I pray and I sleep, I fast and I break the fast, and I do not observe continence. Whoever turns away from my Sunnah is not of mine."
2488. According to Sa'd Ibn 'Abi Waqqâs (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) rejected the desire expressed by 'Uthmân Ibn Maz'ûn to observe continence . If he had allowed it, we would have proceeded with the castration. Marriage of enjoyment which was permitted and then prohibited and its prohibition will persist until the Day of Resurrection
2493. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: We took part in the expeditions with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), and as we were not accompanied by our wives, we asked him if we didn't have to be castrated. But, the Prophet forbids us to do so; then, he tolerated the term marriage for us in return for a piece of cloth as mahr (a kind of dowry but in Islam it is paid to the woman). Then, 'Abdullâh recited this verse: O Believers: do not declare unlawful the good things which God has made lawful for you. And do not transgress. God (truly) does not like transgressors.
2494. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: A herald from the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) came to inform us that the Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) had authorized us to contract temporary marriages (This is a marriage of fixed period in exchange for a fixed salary).
2510. According to 'Alî Ibn 'Abi Tâlib (may God be pleased with him), during the Khaybar expedition, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade temporary marriage as well as the consummation domestic donkeys. Prohibition of having, at the same time as wives, a woman and her paternal or maternal aunt
2514. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "It is strictly forbidden to marry a woman and her paternal aunt or kindergarten at the same time. Prohibition to marry a man in a state of sacredness and reluctance to ask for a girl in marriage
2527. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) married Maymûna while he was in a state of sacredness (ihrâm). Ibn Numayr (one of the transmitters) added: I transmitted this hadith to Az-Zuharî who had answered me by saying: "Yazid Ibn Al-'Asam informed me that he (peace and blessings of God on him) had married her when he was in a state of desacralization". A woman who has already been engaged to another should not be asked to marry unless the latter leaves her.
2530. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Let none of you seek to buy any item while another is about to contract its purchase; and that none of you ask in marriage a woman whose hand is already requested by another".
2532. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade a city dweller to sell in the name of a Bedouin (for fear of abusing his ignorance prices practiced in the city markets), that the offer of a higher price is simulated (to deceive the buyer), that a man asks in marriage the one his brother has already asked for or that he supplants him in the purchase of some merchandise, and that a woman asks for the repudiation of her co-wife in order to monopolize the goods available to her. Prohibition of marriage known as "Ach-Chighâr" considered illicit
2537. According to Ibn 'Omar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade the so-called "Ach-Chighâr" marriage. It is when a man gives his daughter in marriage to someone, on the condition that the latter also gives him his own daughter in marriage, without either of them paying a dowry (to the brides). Comply with the terms of marriage
2542. According to 'Uqba Ibn 'Amir (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The condition which has the most right to be fulfilled is that by which you have ensured the legitimacy of marital relations". The woman already married must declare her consent to the marriage, and the virgin by her silence
2543. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A woman who has already been married (widowed or divorced) cannot be given in marriage only with her permission. As for the virgin, she can only be given in marriage with her consent". - "O Messenger of God! And how will she give her consent?" he was asked. - "By keeping silence", answered the Prophet.
2544. Dhakwan transmits: I heard 'Aisha say: I asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) whether or not the parents of the virgin should consult her before contracting her marriage. - "Yes, she must give her consent", replied the Prophet. - "But, I replied, she is shy". - "Well, he resumed, his silence signifies his consent". The father can give in marriage the youngest of his virgin daughters
2547. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "I was six years old when the Prophet (peace be upon him) married me and nine years old when he actually had marital relations with me. We went to Medina, I had had a fever for a month and my hair had grown to my shoulders. My mother, 'Umm Rûmân, came to find me while I was on a swing, surrounded by my comrades. When she called me, I went to her without knowing what she wanted of me. She took me by the hand, made me stay at the door of the house until I had taken my breath. She then led me into a house where there were women of the 'Ansar who said to me: "To you the good, the blessing and the best fortune! My mother having delivered me to these women, they washed their heads, and began to adorn me, but nothing frightened me, and when the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came in the morning, they i". The dowry and its nature
2554. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him), A woman came to say to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "O Messenger of God! I come to give myself to you ". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) fixed his gaze on her for a moment, then lowered his head. Seeing that he decided nothing about her, the woman sat down. Then one of the companions of the Prophet stood up and said: "O Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)! If you do not want to accept her gift, give her to me in marriage". - "Do you have any property (to endow it)?" asked the Prophet. - "No, by God! O Messenger of God!", replied the man. - "Go home, replied the Prophet, and see if you find anything there". The man left and came back to say: "By God! I didn't find anything there". - "Look well, added the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), even if it were an iron ring". The man returned home, then came and said: "By God! O Messenger of God, I did not even find an iron ring there, but here is my 'izâr (loincloth) - Sahl added: "He did not even have not a ridâ' (clothing covering the upper part of the body) - to her his half". - "But, resumed the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), what will she do with your loincloth? If you wear it, she won't use it, and if she wears it, you won't use it." The man sat down, then, as the session dragged on, He got up. The Messenger of God, seeing that he was about to leave, gave the order to call him back. When the man returned, he said to him: "What do you know of the Koran?" - "I know, he answered, such and such suras", he answered then he began to enumerate them. - "Do you know them by heart?", asked the Prophet. - "Yes", he answered. - "Well then, resumed the Prophet, I give her to you in marriage for what you know of the Koran".
2556. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having seen on (the clothes of) Abdourrahmân Ibn 'Awf the traces of the "sufra" ( scented yellow matter), asked him: "What is it?". - "O Messenger of God, he replied, I have just married a woman, and I have endowed her with the weight of a core of gold (the weight of approximately 5 dirhams)". - "May God bless your union! Give a wedding meal, even if it consists only of a sheep". Deserves to free a slave then marry her
2565. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: I was among the guests at Zaynab's wedding feast. The faithful ate bread and meat until they were satisfied. The Prophet had instructed me to go and invite people. When the meal was over, the Prophet got up to go out and I followed him. Now, two men, absorbed in their conversation, did not leave the house of the Prophet. The latter went to see his wives one after the other, thus addressing the greeting to each of them: "Peace be upon you. How are you, O people of the house?". - "We are well, O Messenger of God! How did you find your (new) wife?". - "She is well," replied the Prophet. When he had finished his turn, he returned home, still being accompanied by me. When he arrived at his house, he found the two men again, still absorbed in their conversation. He then retraced his steps. Having noticed his act, they got up and left. By God! I no longer remember if it was I who informed the Prophet of their departure or if it was the heavenly Revelation that had informed him of it. He then returned, still being accompanied by me. And putting his foot on the threshold of the door, he let down the curtain to separate himself from me. It was on this occasion that God - the Most High - revealed this verse: Do not enter the dwellings of the Prophet, unless you are invited... Obligation to attend the wedding feast
2574. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "When you are invited to a wedding feast, take part in it".
2585. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: "The worst meal is the wedding feast to which the rich are invited and the poor excluded. He who does not respond to the invitation has disobeyed God and His Sent". Prohibition on a woman divorced by triple repudiation from remarrying her ex-husband before taking a husband and having carnal relations with him and then from divorcing after the period of widowhood has elapsed
2587. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), the wife of Rifâ'a came to say to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "I was married to Rifâ'a, but he irrevocably divorced me I then married 'Abdourrahmân Ibn Az-Zubayr, but his penis is like a fringe of clothing (allusion to his sexual impotence)". - "Will you, asked the Prophet smiling, remarry Rifâ'a? It will not be before you have tasted the honey of 'Abdourrahmân and he has tasted yours, it is that is, after the consummation of your marriage". 'A'isha added: At that time, Abu Bakr was sitting with the Prophet and Khalid was waiting at the door for permission to be received. - "O Abu Bakr, cried Khâlid, did you not hear what this one has just said openly in the presence of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)?". What to say during coitus
2591. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: When one of you wants to sleep with his wife, let him say: "In the name of God Lord, protect us from Satan and keep him away from what You have bestowed upon us". If ever a child is born of this union, Satan will never harm him. One can have carnal intercourse with his wife from any side without however standing behind her
2592. Jabir (may God be pleased with him) said: The Jews claimed that when the man undertook carnal intercourse with his wife (through her vagina but) while standing behind her, the child, fruit of this union, will be fishy. This is why this verse was revealed: Your wives are for you a field of Abour (place of productivity like the field); go to your field as (and when) you want... Judgment passed on the woman who refuses to sleep with her husband
2594. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When a woman renounces one night to make love with her husband, the angels begin to curse her until morning". Ejaculation outside (uterus)
2599. Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him) said: We went on an expedition with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) against the Banû Al-Mustaliq and we captivated a certain number virtuous women. As celibacy weighed on us and at the same time we avoided having carnal relations with our captives for fear of losing the right to receive a ransom against their emancipation (in case we had made them pregnant), we wanted to contract temporary marriages against compensation, while practicing coitus interruptus. We said, then: "Do we act in this way without consulting the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who is among us?". So we asked him the question. And he (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "There is no harm in your doing so, because, from now until the Day of Resurrection, every being whose existence will have been predestined by God, will not fail to exist".
2608. Jabir (may God be pleased with him) said: "We practiced coitus interruptus, while the Koran was revealed". 'Ishaq added: Sufyân said: "If ever this act were prohibited, the Koran would have categorically forbidden it to us". The authentic Muslim 17 - Breastfeeding Breastfeeding creates the same prohibitions of childbirth
2615. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ): The Prophet (peace be upon him) was at her house, when she heard the voice of a man asking permission to enter Hafsa's house. "O Messenger of God, said 'Aïcha, here is a man who asks permission to enter your home". - "I believe, answered the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him), that it is so and so, the paternal uncle of milk of Hafsa". - "O Messenger of God, then if so-and-so, said 'Aisha speaking of his own paternal uncle by milk, was alive, he could therefore enter my home?" - "Certainly yes, answered the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), breast-feeding makes illicit what childbirth makes illicit". Prohibition not applying to foster brothers
2617. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), 'Aflah, brother of Abu Al-Qu'ays, who was her paternal uncle by milk, having asked permission to enter her house after the order to wear the veil , she refused to receive it. When the Messenger of God returned home, she told him of her way of acting and the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to order him to grant him permission to enter her home. Prohibition to marry the daughter of a foster brother
2624. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), When it was proposed to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to marry the daughter of Hamza, he said: "It is unlawful for me to 'marry; because she is the daughter of my foster brother and the relationship by breastfeeding creates the same prohibitions as the hereditary relationship. Prohibition on marrying daughters of wives and their sisters
2626. According to 'Umm Habiba bint Abu Sufyan ( رضي الله عنها ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) coming to see me, I asked him: "Do you feel any inclination towards my sister, the daughter of Abu Sufyan?" - "For what?" replied the Prophet. - "To take her in marriage!", I answered. - "Do you really want this?" asked the Prophet. - "Yes, she replied, because I'm not your only wife and my sister is the one with whom I most prefer to share my happiness". - "It is unlawful for me to marry her", replied the Prophet. - "But, it came to my knowledge that you had asked for the hand of Durra bint 'Abi Salama". - "The daughter of Oum Salama!" cried the Prophet. - "Yes", I resumed. - "Even if she were not the daughter of my wife, raised in my lap, I would not have the right to marry her, because she is the daughter of my foster brother. Thuwayba breastfed me like her breastfed Abou Salama (Durra's father). Never propose marriage to me with your daughters or your sisters". Adult male breastfeeding
2636. According to 'A'isha ( رضي الله عنها ), Sahla bint Suhayl came and said to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "O Messenger of God! I notice the signs of discontent on the face of Abu Hudhayfa (my husband) of the frequent presence of Sâlim, his ally, with us". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "Breastfeed him (so that he is a son of milk, forbidden in marriage)". - "And how would I breastfeed such an adult?" The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) smiled (according to the version reported by Ibn 'Abi 'Umar: The Prophet laughed) and said: "I know that he is an adult man!" adds in his version: "and that he had taken part in the battle of Badr". Breastfeeding to quell hunger
2642. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) came to me when I was visited by a man, which caused his discomfort. As I read the anger on his face, I said to him: "O Messenger of God! He is my foster brother". - "Do not consider anyone as your foster brother unless he has shared the same breast as you until satiety. The child belongs to the marital bed. All suspicion must be avoided
2645. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ): A dispute had arisen between Sa'd Ibn 'Abi Waqqâs and 'Abd Ibn Zam'a about a boy. - "O Messenger of God, said Sa'd, he is the son of my brother 'Utba Ibn 'Abi Waqqâs, he recommended him to me (in extremis) saying that he was his son. See, for the rest , how he looks like him". - "He is my brother, O Messenger of God, objected 'Abd Ibn Zam'a, he was born from the bed of my father and his slave". Then examining the child, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) distinguished a striking resemblance to However, he said: "He is yours, O the child belongs to the bed; and adultery deserves stoning. Veil before this child, O Sawda bint Zam'a!"
2646. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The child belongs to the marriage bed and the fornicator must be stoned". Assign the child to the one who recognizes him by external signs
2647. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), rejoicing and having a face radiant with joy, entered my house one day and said: "Have you not did not see that Mujazzaz, looking at the feet of Zayd Ibn Hâritha and Ousâma Ibn Zayd, had said: "Here are feet which resemble each other". and the other formerly married
2654. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), According to the Sunnah, when a married man takes another virgin woman as his wife, he must stay with her for seven days (before returning to his first wife) , and when a man, already married to a virgin, contracts a second marriage with a woman who was formerly married, he must stay three days with her (before returning to his first bed). Tolerance for a woman to give up her night to her co-wife
2657. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: "I have never found a woman who loves me more than Sawda bint Zam'a than I desired to have the same character as her. She was full with ardor and managed to control himself". When she became old, she ceded the day that the Messenger of God was to spend with her to 'Aisha, saying: "O Messenger of God! I have ceded the day that you are consecrating to me to 'Aisha". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then granted 'Aisha her day and that of Sawda.
2658. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: I was jealous of women who offer themselves to the Messenger of God and said, "How dare a woman give herself away like this? " When God revealed this verse: 'You make whomever of them you want to wait, and you lodge whomever you want in your house. Then there is no grievance against you if you invite to your home one of those whom you had rejected...', I say: "It seems to me that your Lord is hastening to satisfy your desires".
2660. from 'Atâ': We took part with Ibn 'Abbas in a funeral held in Sarif. "She is one of the wives, says Ibn 'Abbas, of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). When you carry his coffin, do not shake it, do not shake it; but proceed gently. The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) had nine wives; he spent one night with each of his eight wives; except for one of them to whom he did not spend any night (this is Sawda who aged, gave up to other wives the nights that the Prophet was to spend with her)". Recommendation to marry the pious woman
2661. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A woman is proposed in marriage for one of the following four qualities: her wealth, her nobility , her beauty and her piety. Choose the pious; to acquire bliss". Kindness towards women
2669. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The woman is like the rib. If you try to straighten her, you risk to break it; and if you leave it as it is, you will enjoy it despite its curvature which will persist". Were it not for Eve, no woman would have betrayed her husband
2673. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If it were not for Eve, no woman would have cheated on her husband". The authentic of Muslim 18 - Divorce Forbidden to divorce a woman who is menstruating, otherwise the divorce is valid but the man is ordered to take her back
2675. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) reports that he divorced his wife while she was indisposed, in the time of the Messenger of God (peace be upon him). His father, 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb, having questioned the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) about this, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "Order him to revoke this divorce and to keep it till she finishes her period, then she gets it again, then she finishes it again. And then let him keep it if he wants to, or let him repudiate her if he wishes, but let it be before touching her. Such is the period of widowhood that God, the Exalted, has imposed so that the husband can repudiate his wife". How to expiate the fact of having said to his wife: "You have defended me" without however having repudiated her
2692. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), The fact of declaring that his wife is unlawful for him, can be expiated. Then, Ibn 'Abbas recited this verse: Indeed, you have in the Messenger of God an excellent model (to be followed),...
2694. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) used to stay at Zaynab bint Jahch's home for a long time and drink honey. Hafsa and I, said 'Aisha, we agreed to say to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) when he comes to one of us: "I find that you smell of Maghâfîr (mucilaginous plant with a pleasant flavor, but smelly). Have you eaten Maghâfîr? When he entered one of them, she told him that. And he replied: "No, but I drank honey at Zaynab bint Jahch and I will not drink it again". The following verses were then revealed: from Why, seeking the pleasure of your wives, do you forbid yourself what God has made lawful for you?... to If you repent to God... about of 'A'isha and Hafsa, and When the Prophet confided a secret to one of his wives... about this saying: "but I drank honey". Giving a woman a choice to stay or leave is not a repudiation
2696. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) received the order from God to offer his wives to choose (between their union with him or the goods of this world instead of those of the future life), he came to find me first and said to me: "I am going to talk to you about a matter, but do not be in a hurry to answer me until you have not consulted your parents". Now he knew very well that neither my father nor my mother would induce me to separate from him. Then he continued: "God, the Exalted said: O Prophet! Say to your wives: If it is the present life that you desire and its adornment, then come! I will give you (the means) to enjoy it and you will set free (by a divorce without prejudice). But if it is God you want and His Messenger and the final abode, God has prepared for the good-doers among you a mighty reward." - "What is the use, I answered him, of consulting my father and my mother, since it is God, His Messenger and the final resting place that I desire?" The other wives of the Prophet (peace be upon him) did the same.
2697. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) asked for our assent on the day fixed for each one of us, since the revelation of this verse: You keep whoever you want to wait of them and you host in your home whoever you want... - "And you, Mu'adha asked him, what did you answer to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) when he asked you for permission to spend the night with one of his other wives?" - "I said to him, she replied, if it depends on me, I will not give the predilection to any on me".
2698. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) offered us the choice (of divorce). But, we did not consider this as a repudiation". Oath made to no longer approach women and give them the choice, and these divine words; "But if you support each other against the Prophet..."
2704. 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him) said: When the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) decided to deprive himself of his wives for some time, I entered the mosque and found the people all pensive and worried (the eyes fixed on the ground while pounding the ground with stones). They said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) has divorced his wives!" This happened before the revelation of the verse imposing the wearing of the veil. I then say to myself: "I absolutely must know today the reason for this". continued: I entered 'Aisha's house and said to her: "O daughter of Abu Bakr! Do you dare to harm the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)?" She replied: "Why are you interfering in my affairs, O Ibn Al-Khattâb? Take care of your daughter (Hafsa) instead! (also wife of the Prophet)" I went to Hafsa bint and said to her: "O Hafsa How dare you harm the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) By God, I know that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) does not love you and without me he will 'would have repudiated'. And Hafsa to start crying. I asked him: "Where is the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)?" - "He is in his belvedere". I went to his house and found Rabâh, the servant of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sitting on the threshold of the belvedere, hanging his feet on a hollow tree trunk whose Messenger of God ( peace and blessings of God on him) is used to access or descend from its belvedere. I called him: "O Rabâh! Ask me permission to enter the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)!" The servant looked sometimes at me sometimes at the belvedere without saying a word. I reiterated my request "O Rabâh! Ask me permission to enter the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)!" and as I received no answer, I exclaimed for the third time: "O Rabâh! Ask me permission to enter the house of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), I believe that the Prophet (peace be upon him) thinks that I came to talk to him about Hafsa. By God, if he orders me to cut Hafsa's neck, I will do it." I raised my voice, and then he waved me up. I went to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) and found him stretched out on a mat. I sat down and he covered himself with his 'izar, which he only wore. I then saw the traces of the mat drawn on his side. I looked in the room of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and found only a handful of barley and another of blond acacia (used for tanning), as well as a hanging skin which has not yet been tanned. At this scene, I cannot hold back my tears. “Why are you crying, O Ibn Al-Khattâb?” asked the Prophet. I replied: "O Prophet of God! And how not to cry when you see the traces left by the mat on your side and this belvedere which contains almost nothing. How not to cry when you compare your situation - you the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and His elite, in your little room - to that of Caesar or Cosroes who enjoy the fruits and the streams?" - "O Ibn Al-Khattâb, replied the Prophet, don't you agree that we will have the future life and that they have this low world?" - "Yes," I said. When I entered his house, continued I could notice the signs of discontent on his face and I said to him: "O Messenger of God! Why do you feel too much sorrow about women? If you had divorced them, God is with you as well as His angels, Gabriel, Mikâ'îl, as well as me, Abu Bakr and all the Believers". Never before - thank God - have I had, while speaking, such a desire to receive divine confirmation for my words. Later, the verse of free will was revealed: If he divorces you, his Lord may in exchange give him wives better than you... and: But if you support each other (' Aïcha and Hafsa) against the Prophet, then his allies will be God, Gabriel and the virtuous among the Believers and the angels are in addition (his) support. 'A'isha bint Abu Bakr and Hafsa supported each other against the other wives of the Prophet (peace be upon him). I said to him: "O Messenger of God! Have you put them away?" - "No", he replied. “O Messenger of God,” I continued, “I entered the mosque and found the Muslims anxious, pensive, saying, 'The Messenger of God (peace be upon him) has divorced his wives!' . Can I go down to tell them that you have not divorced them?". He replied: "Yes, if you want". I kept talking to him until I saw the traces of anger disappear from his face, he even smiled and laughed. The Messenger of God had the most beautiful mouth. Then, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) descended and I descended in my turn, sticking to the trunk, while he descended so easily without touching it as if he were walking on the ground. I said to him: "O Messenger of God! But you had only spent twenty-nine days in your belvedere!" (The Prophet had decided to retire for a month) He replied: "The month is sometimes twenty-nine days!" So, I stood at the door of the mosque and cried aloud: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has not divorced his wives!" On this occasion, God revealed this verse: When reassuring or alarming news reached them, they spread it. If they reported it to the Messenger and to the holders of the commandment among them, those of them who seek to be enlightened, would have learned (the truth from the mouth of the Prophet and the holders of the commandment)... In this matter, continued I was the one who had learned the truth (among those who seek to be enlightened) and God revealed the verse of free will. Completion of a widow's or divorcee's period of widowhood after childbirth
2728. 'Umar ibn 'Abdullâh wrote to 'Abdullâh ibn 'Utba, informing him that Subay'a had told him that she was married to Sa'd ibn Khawla of Banû 'Amir ibn Lu'ayy, one of those who had attended the day of Badr. Sa'd died during the farewell Hajj, leaving her pregnant. Shortly after her husband's death, Subay'a gave birth. When she was relieved from childbirth, she adorned herself with the intention of remarrying. But, a man of the Banû 'Abd Ad-Dâr, Abu As-Sanabil Ibn Bakak, then came to find her and said to her: "Why this adornment? Do you have the desire to marry? By God! You will not be marriageable before the lapse of four months and ten days". Having heard these words, Subay'a continued, in the evening, I put on my going out clothes and went to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), whom I questioned on this point (of right). He informed me that I was marriageable from the day I gave birth and told me to marry if I want".
2729. According to Oum Salama, Subay'a Al-'Aslamiyya gave birth a few days after the death of her husband. Having consulted the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) on this subject, he recommended that she marry. Obligation to remain in mourning for her husband during the period of widowhood and prohibition to mourn for more than three days
2730. According to 'Umm Habiba, the wife of the Prophet ( رضي الله عنها ), Zaynab bint 'Abi Salama reported the following: I went to 'Umm Habiba, the wife of the Prophet, when she had lost her father, Abu Sufyan. 'Umm Habiba asked that a yellow perfume, "Khalûq" or other, be brought to her, then she anointed one of her servants with it. Then she passed her hands on her cheeks and said, "By God! I don't need to wear perfume, but I heard the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) say on the minbar that 'a woman who believes in God and the Last Day should not mourn for more than three days, unless it is for her husband, in which case the mourning is four months and ten days' .
2731. According to Zaynab bint Jahsh ( رضي الله عنها ): Zaynab bint 'Abi Salama said: I went to Zaynab bint Jahsh after the death of his brother. She asked for a perfume, anointed herself with it and said: "By God! I do not need to perfume myself, but I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) declare in the pulpit that a woman who believes in God and the Last Day should not mourn for more than three days, unless it is for her husband, in which case the mourning is four months and ten days.
2732. According to Oum Salama ( رضي الله عنها ), a woman came to say to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "O Messenger of God, my daughter has just lost her husband and she is suffering from eyes. Can she coat them with koheul?" - "No", replied the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him), two or three times, to insist on his refusal. Then he added: "The duration of mourning is four months and ten days. Before Islam, you women threw dung at the end of the year". (act of the pre-Islamic period by which the woman announced the end of her mourning)
2739. According to 'Umm 'Atiyya ( رضي الله عنها ), The Prophet (peace be upon him) said that it was not permissible for a woman to wear mourning for more than three days, except for her husband; in this case, the mourning is four months and ten days. Nor is he permitted to wear dyed garments, unless they are of so-called 'asb fabrics; to smear her eyes with koheul or to perfume herself, except for a little bit of qust or 'azfâr, after the cessation of her menses. The Authentic of Muslim 19 - Anathema
2741. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd As-Sâ'idî (may God be pleased with him), 'Uwaymir Al-'Ajlânî came to find 'Asim Ibn 'Adî Al-Ansâri and said to him: "O what do you think of "a husband who finds a man with his wife? Should he kill this man and therefore expose himself to the penalty of retaliation, or what should he do? O ask me this question to the Messenger of God (peace and blessing of God upon him). submitted the question to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who was upset that such questions were put to him and disapproved of them, to the point that he was very sad to hear such statements from the Messenger of God. God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). When returned home, came to find him there and said to him: "O what did the Messenger of God say to you (peace and blessings of God be upon him)?" - "Nothing good, answered the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him) was offended by the question I had asked him". - "By God!, cried I won't stop until I have questioned him about it". therefore went to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who was surrounded by faithful and said to him: "O Messenger of God, what do you think of a husband who finds a man with his wife? Should he kill and expose himself to the penalty of retaliation or what should he do?" - "God, replied the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), has revealed verses from the Koran about you and about your companion. So go and get her and bring her". The two spouses, says Sahl, pronounced the formula of the anathema in my presence, because I was among the faithful with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him). When they had finished their oaths, said: "I would have lied to her, O Messenger of God, if I kept her". And he repudiated her, three times, without waiting for the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) to give him the order.
2742. Sa'id Ibn Jubayr said: During the rule of Mus'ab, I was asked about the spouses who must - the wife being accused of adultery - take the oaths of anathema on each other; shall we pronounce the separation between them? As I did not know how to answer, I went to Ibn 'Omar in Mecca. There, I said to the servant: "Ask me for permission to enter." - "But he's taking a nap!", he answered. - "Ibn Jubayr, is it you?" inquired from inside my host who had recognized my voice. - "Yes", I answered. - "Come in! By God, at such an hour, it was only an urgent matter that brought you here". When I entered, I found Ibn 'Omar lying on a packsaddle and using a pillow stuffed with palm fibers. - "Abou 'Abdourrahmân!, I asked, the spouses who pronounce the oaths of anathema (to confirm or deny the act of adultery), should they separate?" - Glory and purity to God! Yes! This question was first put to the Prophet by so-and-so Ibn so-and-so; he had expressed himself as follows: O Messenger of God, what do you think of the husband who sees his wife committing the great sin (of adultery)? It would be a thorny and weighty affair, as difficult to talk about as to let it pass in silence! - The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) kept silent and refrained from answering. Later, the man came to the Prophet and said to him: Here I am personally tried by the same question I was inquiring about before! - Verses dealing with this cause were revealed in Sura An-Nûr: And as for those who bring accusations against their own wives,... The Prophet recited these verses to the man and proceeded to calm his revolt by counsels and the reminder of divine prescriptions and recommendations. He let him know that the punishment here below is much less painful than that of the hereafter - 'No, by Him who sent you with the Truth, I did not lie on his account' , said the man. The Prophet then summoned the woman accused of adultery, exhorted her in the same way, reminded her of the divine prescriptions and recommendations and advised her that the punishment here below is much less painful than that of the other world. of the. 'No, by Him who sent you with the Truth, he is a liar,' she expressed herself. The Prophet began, then, with the husband: this one made a quadruple attestation by God that he is among the truthful and the fifth is that the curse of God falls on him if he is among the liars. In turn, the wife testifies four times by God that he (her husband) is certainly among the liars and the fifth (attestation) is that the wrath of God be upon her, if he were among the truthful. The Prophet finally pronounced the separation of the two spouses.
2750. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: As mention was made of the anathema uttered reciprocally by the two spouses when the wife is accused of adultery, in the presence of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), 'Asim Ibn 'Adi said something about this, then left. A man from his tribe then came to him and complained that he had found a man with his wife. "This ordeal, he says, only happens to me because of what I said". Then he took her to the Prophet (peace be upon him) to whom the husband told in what situation he had found his wife. Now this man had a very yellow complexion, a lean body and smooth hair, while the one he claimed to have found at his wife's house was corpulent, dark and strong in flesh. "Great God, cried the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), bring out the truth!" The woman gave birth to a child who looked like the man the husband said he found at his wife's house. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made them pronounce the oaths of anathema. A man who was at this meeting said to Ibn 'Abbas: "Isn't the woman in question the one about whom the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If ever I had had to have someone stoned without proof, it would have been that woman". - "No, answered Ibn 'Abbâs, it was a question of a woman who scandalized Islam by her conduct".
2755. According to Al-Mughîra Ibn Chu'ba (may God be pleased with him), Sa'd Ibn 'Ubâda said: "If I found a man with my wife, I would strike him with my sword and not with the flat of the blade". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having heard of these words, said: "Are you surprised at the jealousy of Sa'd? By God, I am more jealous than he and God is even more Jealous than I. It is because of His jealousy that God forbade turpitudes as manifest as secret. No being is more jealous than God. No one loves as much as God excuses him and it is because of that He sent Prophets to promise rewards and threaten punishment. No one loves praise more than He and that is why God has promised Paradise."
2756. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), a man from the Banû Fazâra came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "My wife has given birth to a black child". - "Do you have camels?", asked the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "Yes", answered the man. - "And what color are they?", added the Prophet. - "Roux", replied the man. - "Are any of them gray?" asked the Prophet. - "Yes", said the man. - "And how is it?" asked the Prophet. - "Perhaps it is a phenomenon of atavism", resumed the man. - "Then, replied the Prophet, perhaps it is the same for your son". Authentic Muslim 20 - Postage
2758. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who frees a slave for the share he owns and who had the sum necessary to complete the freeing, must cause this slave to be appraised at its fair value and give to each of his co-partners the sum due to them to free this slave completely. partially freed". Slave who can earn from his work
2759. Abu Hurayrah (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) formulated the following rule concerning the slave belonging to two co-owners and that one of them has freed for his part: This slave must be freed by him completely if he has the necessary money (to reimburse the part of the partner). The right of patronage belongs to the person who frees
2761. According to Ibn 'Umar, 'Aisha wanted to buy a slave to free her. The masters of the slave said to him: "We will sell it to you on the condition of keeping the right of patronage (receiving the inheritance)". 'Aisha having mentioned this to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the latter said to him: "We cannot deprive you of this right, because the right of patronage belongs to the one who frees". Prohibition to sell the right of patronage or to offer it
2770. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) forbade the alienation of the right of patronage by sale and donation. Merit of postage
2775. Narrated Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him): The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If anyone frees a Muslim slave, God will deliver from the fire of Hell one of his limbs, against each of the limbs of the slave". The Authentic of Muslim 21 - Sales Prohibition of mulâmasa and munâbadha
2780. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) prohibited the sale known as Al-Mulâmasa (conclude the transaction as soon as the buyer had touched the article without being able to examine it closely) and that known as Al-Munâbadha (when two men launch the articles to be sold, the sale is thus carried out without examination and without reciprocal acceptance).
2782. Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has forbidden us two kinds of sales and two ways of dressing. With regard to sales, he prohibited Al-Mulâmasa (letting the buyer touch the article without letting him see it) and Al-Munâbadha (displaying an article for sale without giving the customer time to feel or touch it). 'examine). Prohibition of the sale of the litter of a camel before it gives birth
2784. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade to sell the litter of a camel before it gives birth. Prohibition of outbidding, displacing each other and selling a female before milking her
2788. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Muslim should not bid higher, by offering a higher price than that which his co-religionist has already proposed".
2792. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) prohibited najsh (the fact that a customer outbids to deceive the rest of the customers on the value of a merchandise). Prohibition to go in front of caravans
2793. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade going to the front of the goods and ordered to wait until they were spread on the steps. This hadith was transmitted in other words used by Ibn Namir.
2794. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade going ahead of the caravans (before the goods were displayed for sale at the market). Forbidden to a city dweller to sell to a Bedouin
2798. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade going ahead of caravans and forbade the townsman from selling to a Bedouin (to protect people passing through and the naive of the covetousness of brokers who are fully aware of the prices practiced on the market).
2800. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: It was forbidden for us that a city dweller sell to a Bedouin, even if he was his brother or his father. Case of the female left for a few days without being treated and intended for sale
2802. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Whoever buys a sheep whose milk has been allowed to accumulate, let him take it home and let him milk it. If it pleases him, he will keep the ewe, or else, if he wishes, he will give it back by giving in exchange for the milking a sâ' (measure equivalent to 8 handfuls of average size) of dates". Forbidden to sell what you bought before owning it
2807. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who has bought eatables should not sell them until he has taken complete possession of them". Option rights of sellers and buyers
2821. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "The seller and the buyer have the option (to conclude or to close the market) as long as 'they did not separate, unless the sale was at term (made especially at option)'. Sincerity in sales
2825. According to Hakîm Ibn Hizâm (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The two contracting parties of a sale have the right of option until they are separated. If they are both loyal and frank, their contract will be blessed; and if they dissemble and lie, the blessing will be taken from their contract." Deception in sales
2826. Narrated Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) a man told the Prophet (peace be upon him) that he was a victim of fraud in sales. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "When you conclude a contract of sale, say: No deceit". And the man to follow this recommendation: At the conclusion of each transaction, he says: "No disappointment (Khiyâba)". Prohibition of the sale of fruits before they are edible
2827. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade the sale of fruits before they were ripened and this prohibition is addressed to the seller as well as to the buyer.
2831. Jabir (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) forbade us to sell the fruits before they ripened.
2833. Ibn 'Abbas ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) forbade the selling of dates before they were edible and unless they were weighed. So I said, "What does 'unless they were weighed' mean?" One of the assistants then said: "Unless they were picked".
2834. Narrated Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Do not sell the fruits before they begin to ripen". Prohibition of selling fresh dates against dried dates, with the exception of those of Al-'Arâyya
2838. According to Zayd Ibn Thâbit ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) tolerated the owner of Al-'Arâyya (the palm trees of a garden, which donated to the poor) to sell dates still on the palm tree for an equivalent quantity of ripe dates (tamr) already picked.
2842. According to Sahl Ibn 'Abi Hathma (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade the selling of fruits still on the tree for picked dates, saying : "Such is the usury, such is the Muzâbana (the sale of dates still on the palm trees against ripe and picked dates and the sale of unpicked grapes against raisins)!" However, the Prophet made an exception for Al-'Arâyya (the palm trees of a garden, which he gave to the poor); the fruits of one or two palms in this case can be sold while still on the tree for an equivalent amount of ripe dates so that the beneficiaries of the tree would eat the fresh fruit.
2845. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) tolerated the sale of the fruits of Al-'Arâyya when there are five loads (quantity equivalent to 60 sâ') or less than five charges.
2846. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade the Muzâbana. Muzâbana is the sale of dates still on the tree against measured dry dates, the sale of measured raisins against fresh grapes on the stump. He who sells date-bearing palms
2851. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When already fertilized palms are sold, the fruits belong to the seller, unless otherwise stipulated by the buyer". Land rental
2861. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade the leasing of land.
2879. Narrative reported from Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ): "We found no disadvantage in sharecropping (method of agricultural exploitation, renting a rural domain to a lessee who undertakes to cultivate it under conditions to share the fruits and harvests with the owner) until the year before last when Rafî' claimed that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had forbidden it". gift of the earth
2892. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Do an act of generosity towards one of your brothers in him granting the land is better for you than exacting a fixed fee from him". The authentic of Muslim 22 - Irrigation Contract for watering and planting the land against part of the proceeds
2896. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) demanded from the people of Khaybar half of the produce of the soil: fruits or grains". Merit of planting and seed
2904. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whenever a Muslim plants a tree or sows a seed, he will have to his credit as alms all that has been eaten of the product of this plant by a bird, a man or a quadruped". Remission of a fee following a plague
2906. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade the sale of dates as long as they are not yet ripe. And, as Anas was asked, "How do they get ripe?". He replied, "When they turn red or yellow." Then he added, "Don't you see that if God prevents the fruit (from ripening), how will one of you unjustly take the good of another". Recommendation to forgive a debt
2911. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: The Messenger of God (peace be upon him) heard near the door the sound of a dispute between two men who raised their voices. One of them asked that his debt be reduced or that he be granted facilities for payment; while the other says, "No, by God! I won't." The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) came out and, going towards them, said: "Where is he who swears by God that he will not do a good deed?". - "I, O Messenger of God", answered one of them and he added: "I grant him whichever of the two options (debt reduction or payment facilities) he prefers".
2912. Ka'b Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) reports that he asked for the settlement of a debt he had on Ibn 'Abi Hadrad. The scene took place in the mosque of the time of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him). As both raised their voices, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), who was in his room, heard them; and came to find them. Raising the curtain of his room, he (peace and blessings of God be upon him) called Ka'b Ibn Mâlik. - "Hey! Ka'b", he cried. - "Here I am, O Messenger of God", replied Ka'b. The Prophet waved to him to reduce the debt to half. "It is done, O Messenger of God," said Ka'b. - "Now, said the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to the debtor, get up and pay him". The seller finding his goods at the buyer who goes bankrupt, has the right to recover them
2913. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "Whoever finds an intact property that belonged to him in a broken man, has more right to recover it than any other". Merit of the one who grants a delay to another who was in trouble
2917. According to Houdhayfa (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Having collected the soul of a man who lived before you, the angels asked him: "Did you do any good?" - He answered them: "No". They replied, "Remember." - He said to them: "I made loans to people and then, I asked my clerks to grant a delay to the embarrassed man and to make a discount to the wealthy man". God to Himself the power and the glory said to the angels: "Give him a remission (of his sins)".
2921. According to Ibn Abu Mas'ûd (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "We (it is God who must be understood by this pronoun indefinite) asked his account of a man who lived before you. It was found that he had done no good except that he traded and was rich, so he ordered his clerks to make reductions at those who were in trouble". God, to Him the power and the glory, says: "It is we who have more right to act in this way, grant this man the forgiveness of his faults!"
2922. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There was a man who lent people and said to his clerk: " When you find a man insolvent, pardon him (of his debt), so that God may pardon us". This man having met God, He pardons him. Prohibition of delay in paying off a debt, the validity of the mandate and its acceptance
2924. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The solvent man who delays in paying commits an iniquity and if a man rich among you receives a delegation of claim on an insolvent man, he must accept it". Prohibition of the sale and retention of superfluous water in a desert for various purposes and prohibition of the sale of the breeding of a stallion
2927. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "We must not refuse the superfluous water, so as not to prevent the pasture to grow". Prohibition to use the price of the dog, the salary of the soothsayer and the gain of the prostitute. Ban on selling the cat
2930. According to Abu Mas'ûd Al-Ansâri (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade the levying of a price for a dog, a retribution for fornication and a salary for divination. Order to kill dogs then its repeal, ban on raising dogs unless they are to guard the plantation and the herds or for hunting
2934. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered the dogs to be killed.
2940. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "Whoever uses a dog, unless it is a sheepdog or a hunting dog, decreases his quota of good works each day by two qîrât".
2947. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever has a dog, unless he is a hunting dog, herd or field, will see two qîrât deducted from (the reward for) his works every day".
2951. According to Sufyân Ibn 'Abi Zuhayr (may God be pleased with him), I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "Whoever owns a dog for any purpose other than guarding of his fields or his herds, will see the reward for his works diminished daily by one qîrât". Lawful gain of he who does bloodletting
2952. Anas Ibn Mâlik, questioned about the salary of the suction cups, replied: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had suction cups put on him by Abu Tayba and gave him (for salary) two sâ' of food, ordered his masters to diminish the dues they demanded of him, and said, "The most appropriate remedy is the application of cupping, or that is your best remedy."
2958. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: When the last verses of Surah Al-Baqara (the cow) were revealed, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came out (from his apartment) and recited them to the faithful. Then he prohibited the wine trade. Prohibition of the sale of wine, dead animals, pigs and idols
2960. Narrative reported according to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdoullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ): He heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say, the year of the conquest, while he was in La Mecca: "God and His Messenger forbade the sale of wine, dead animals, pork and idols". And as they said to him: "O Messenger of God, what do you think of the fats of dead animals, which are used to coat the vessels, to grease the skins and to fuel the lamps of the people?". - "No, he answered, it is forbidden". Then, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) added: "May God curse the Jews! When God, to Him the power and the glory, had forbidden them the use of fat from dead animals; they melted them down, sold them and used the price for their subsistence".
2961. According to (may God be pleased with him), Ibn 'Abbas said: having heard that Samura had sold wine, cried: "May God curse Samura! Does he not know that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: May God curse the Jews! Although they were forbidden to use the fats (from the dead animals) and they melted them and sold them".
2962. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "May God curse the Jews! Although God has forbidden them the use of fat (dead animals), they sold them and ate the price". usurious interest
2964. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Do not sell gold against gold except equality and one of you does not give more than the other. other. Do not sell any of these (precious metals) not present for a present object". Exchange and sale of gold for silver
2968. According to 'Omar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Exchanging silver for gold involves usury unless the exchange is done simultaneously Exchanging wheat for wheat involves usury unless the exchange is done simultaneously Exchanging barley for barley involves usury unless the exchange is made simultaneously. Exchanging dates for dates involves usury unless the exchange is made simultaneously". Prohibition of the sale of silver against gold futures
2975. According to Al-Barâ' Ibn 'Azib (may God be pleased with him), Abu Al-Minhâl said: One of my associates had sold dirhams in silver deliverable on time - or at Hajj (time of the delivery). He came to tell me about this affair. - "Such a transaction is forbidden", I exclaimed. - "I made this sale at the market and no one found fault with it", answered my partner. So I went to Al-Barâ' Ibn 'Azib to ask him about it. - "When the Prophet came to Medina, replied the latter, we practiced this mode of sale. But the Prophet said: If the payment is made on the spot, there will be no inconvenience, but if the payment is deferred to term , it will be usury. Go find Zayd Ibn Arqam and ask him about it, because he is a great merchant". I then went to question Zayd Ibn Arqam who gave me the same answer.
2977. Abu Bakra (may God be pleased with him) said: the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has forbidden the sale of silver for silver and gold for gold in unless it is equal to equal. He commanded us to buy silver for gold as we see fit and to buy gold for silver as we see fit. A man asked him (about the mode of payment) - "From hand to hand", he replied. This is what I heard (from the Messenger of God)." Sale of food equal to equal
2983. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) installed an agent of the Banû 'Adî Al-Ansâri, in Khaybar. This agent having come with dates of a good species called janib, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) asked him if all the dates of Khaybar were of this quality. - "No, by God, O Messenger of God, answered the agent; in exchange for one sâ' of these dates, we sell two sâ' of a bad quality called jam'". - "Don't do that anymore, replied the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), but equality for equality, or rather sell these dates (of poor quality) for money, then from this money buy dates (of good quality). That's how we weigh".
2985. According to Abou Sa'îd Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him): Bilâl having brought to the Prophet dates (of good quality) called barnî, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) asked where these dates came from. - "I had, replied Bilâl, dates of poor quality and I sold two sâ' for one sa' of barnî to serve the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him)". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then exclaimed: “Alas! But it is pure usury! dates (low quality) for money and then buys dates (high quality)".
2988. Abu Nadra said: I asked Ibn 'Abbas about the barter of gold against gold, gold against silver or silver against gold. He said to me: "Would the exchange be hand to hand?". When I answered in the affirmative, he said: "It's okay to do it". I then informed Abu Sa'id, saying: "I asked Ibn 'Abbas about the barter of gold against gold, gold against silver or silver against gold He said to me: “Would the exchange be hand to hand?” When I answered in the affirmative, he said: “There is no harm in doing so.” Abu Sa'id said, "Did he really say that?! I will write to him about this: he must not give you fatwas. By God, one day some young people brought dates to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). Having misunderstood him, the Prophet said: It seems that these dates are not the product of our land. One of them said: 'The date of our land, or our date this year was bad, so I took that (the date of good quality) against a large quantity of ours'. The Prophet therefore exclaimed: 'It is usury. Never act like that. In case you have doubts about the quality of your dates, sell them, then buy the good dates that you think are good.
2990. Abou Sa'îd Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him) said: "Dinar against dinar and dirham against dirham, equality with equality, whoever gives more or asks for more is, indeed, a usurer". I pointed out to him that Ibn 'Abbas had not expressed himself thus. "Then, said Abu Sa'id, I met Ibn 'Abbas and asked him if he had heard this prescription from the mouth of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) or if he had found it in the book of God, to Him the power and the glory". "I did not hear that from the mouth of the Messenger of God and I did not find it in the book of God, he replied, but it was Usama Ibn Zayd who informed me that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: There is no usury unless there is an end.
2991. According to Usâma Ibn Zayd ( رضي الله عنهما ) the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There is no usury unless there is an end". Taking what is lawful and avoiding questionable things
2996. An-Nu'mân Ibn Bachîr (may God be pleased with him) reported that he heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say (and An-Nu'mân put his fingers on his ears): "Certainly what is licit is obvious as well as what is illicit. But between these two categories, there are things on which one can have doubts and that few people know them. doubtful, preserves his religion and his honour. Anyone who falls into it, thus commits an illicit act, like a shepherd who leads his flock to graze around an enclosure at the risk of entering it. Is it not that each sovereign has a domain? reserved! Now the enclosure of God are his prohibitions. In truth, there is in the human body an organ, if it is healthy, the whole body will be healthy, but if it is corrupt, the whole body will be entirely. Well it's about the heart". Borrow something and then pay off your debt in the best way. "The best of you is the one who best discharges his debts"
3003. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), A man came to harshly claim the settlement of his debt to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). On this, the companions of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) wanted to chastise him. And the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The creditor has the right to claim his due. Let us buy him a camel (of a certain age) and give it to him". "But we only found a better camel of a more advanced age." "Well! give it to him!" exclaimed the Prophet, "the best of you are those who best discharge their debts." The pledge and its authorization being on a trip or in the city
3007. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having bought grain from a Jew on term, gave him his iron chainmail as a pledge. The loan
3010. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: When the Prophet came to Medina, people were lending on fruits for one or two years. - "Let him who lends on dates, said the Prophet, do so after having determined the measure, the weight and the term". Prohibition of swearing in sales
3014. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) say: "The oath increases the flow of goods, but removes the blessing profit". Withdrawal
3016. According to Jabir (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: not the right to sell before offering him the purchase. If his partner wants to buy, they conclude the purchase; and if he refuses, the partner will have the right to dispose of the property". Planting wood in the neighbor's wall
3019. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Let one of you not prevent his neighbor from planting a beam in his wall". Prohibition of injustice and violation of land, or otherwise
3020. According to Sa'îd Ibn Zayd Ibn 'Amr Ibn Nufayl (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who unjustly appropriates a span of a land, God will make it a necklace (of gravity) of seven lands".
3025. According to 'A'isha ( رضي الله عنها ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever appropriates a span of land unjustly, it will be made a necklace for him (of gravity) of seven earths". The width of a road in the event of a dispute
3026. Narrated Abu Hurayrah (may God be pleased with him) that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "When you argue about the width of a path (separating two different properties), make it seven cubits". The Authentic of Muslim 23 - Successions First allocate the reserves to the reservers and what remains will be for the closest of the males
3027. According to Osama Ibn Zayd (may God be pleased with him) the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Muslim does not inherit from the infidel, nor the infidel from the Muslim".
3028. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "First allocate the reserves to the reservers and what remains, will be for the nearest of the males". Succession of the deceased without direct heir
3031. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: As I fell ill the Messenger of God and Abu Bakr came on foot to visit me. When they arrived, I had a syncope. The Messenger of God performed his ablutions and then sprinkled some water on me. I then came to myself and said: "O Messenger of God, what should I do about my property, how should I distribute it to the heirs?". The Prophet did not answer me until the revelation of the verse relating to successions: They ask you what has been decreed. Say: About the deceased who has no father or mother or child, God gives you His decree:.. The last verse revealed is that of the succession of the dead without direct heir.
3036. According to Al-Barâ' (may God be pleased with him), The last verse revealed is: They ask you what has been decreed. Say: Concerning the deceased who has no father or mother or child, God gives you His decree:... The property of a dead person must be attributed to his successors
3040. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), When a dead person was brought in debt to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he would ask: "Has he left anything for payment of his debts? If the deceased had left, he made the funeral prayer over him, if not, he said to his companions: "You yourselves make the funeral prayer for your companion". After God gave him victory in all his conquests, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "I have more rights over the believers than they have over themselves. . Whoever dies (destitute) leaving a debt, I will take care of his discharge. Whoever leaves property, they will go to his successors". The authentic of Muslim 24 - Donations Contempt to buy the alms that the person has given to another
3044. 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him) said: I donated for the holy war a thoroughbred horse which belonged to me; but he to whom it fell let it waste away. I wanted to recover it thinking that he would sell it at a low price and I spoke about it to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him) who said to me: "Do not buy it, do not go back on your alms what you have done, for he who goes back on his alms is like a dog who swallows his vomit".
3046. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb gave alms from a horse to be ridden in battles in the path of God; later, seeing it sold, he wanted to redeem it and questioned the Messenger of God on this subject (peace and blessings of God be upon him). "Do not redeem it, replied this one, and do not go back on your alms". Prohibition to go back on his donation or on his alms, except if they are made to the son
3048. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who returns to his alms is comparable to the dog which returns to its vomiting to eat it".
3050. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who returns on his donation is comparable to the one who vomits; then, eats his vomit". It is blameworthy to prefer one child to others in the gift
3052. According to An-Nu'mân Ibn Bashîr (may God be pleased with him), his father took him to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said: "I gave my son that here is a slave who belonged to me". - "Have you also given one to each of your children?" asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "No", replied Bashir. "Well! replied the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), take back this slave". Lifetime gift ('umrâ)
3062. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdoullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A life movable gift belongs to the one who receives it as well as to his descendants and therefore no longer belongs to the donor. It is a gift to which the rule of succession applies.".
3073. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "lifetime movable donation is permitted". The Authenticity of Muslim 25 - Testaments
3074. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A Muslim man who owns property which he wishes to dispose of by will, does not the right to spend two nights without his arrangements being put in writing to him". Third Party Legacy
3076. Sa'd Ibn 'Abî Waqqâs (may God be pleased with him) said: During the Hajj of farewell, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came to visit me during an illness which put me on the brink of death. - "O Messenger of God, I said to him, you see how sick I am. Now I have a fortune and have only one daughter as an heir; can I donate two-thirds of it?" - "No", answered the Prophet. - "Half?" I continued. - "No, he replied. Give the third and even the third is a lot. It is better that you leave your heirs rich than to leave them in misery, obliged to reach out to people. Any sum you expenditure with the face of God in view, will ensure you a reward, even the morsel you put in your wife's mouth". I asked him: "O Messenger of God, will I remain (in Makkah) after my companions have left it?". He answered me, "If you stay in this city to do godly works for the face of God, it will increase you in degrees and in consideration. You may stay (a long life) for the benefit of some and the prejudice of some others. Great God! Complete the Emigration of my companions and do not make them retrace their steps. The unfortunate is none other than Sa'd Ibn Khawla". (Later) the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) made his elegy, when he died in Mecca.
3080. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: If only the people make the legacy of the quarter instead of the third, for the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The third and even a third is a lot". Waqf (pious bequest)
3085. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), who had had land in Khaybar for his part, came to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and asked him for instructions regarding which. - "O Messenger of God, he said to him, I have land in Khaybar and I have never had a property that was so precious to me. What do you order me to do with it?". - "If you want, answered the Prophet, immobilize the fund and give alms from its products". donated this land, stipulating that it would not be sold, bought, inherited or given away. gave alms for the poor, relatives, freeing slaves, the way of God, travelers in distress and guests. There is no harm in the one who administers the "waqf" eating its products according to the proper use and feeding a friend with it, provided that he does not hoard it. He who does not possess property, let him not leave bequests
3086. Narrated 'Abdullâh ibn 'Abî 'Awfâ ( رضي الله عنهما ), Talha ibn Musrif said: I asked 'Abdullâh ibn 'Abî 'Awfâ ( رضي الله عنهما ) if the Messenger (peace and blessings) God on him) had made a will and he said no. - "But then, I resumed, why were Muslims ordered to make a will? - and according to a variant: were they ordered to make a will?". - "The Prophet made his will, he replied, in accordance with the Book of God, may He be Praised and Exalted".
3087. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) bequeathed neither a dinar, nor a dirham, nor a sheep, nor a camel, and therefore he did not make a will.
3089. According to Sa'îd Ibn Jubayr, Ibn 'Abbas said: "On Thursday, ah! what is Thursday!". And he began to cry so hard that his tears wet the pebbles on the ground. I said to him: "O Ibn 'Abbas and what about Thursday?". - It is the day, he resumed, when the sufferings of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) became more acute; which prompted him to say: "Let someone bring me something to write, so that I can put in writing what, in the future, will preserve you from error". At these words a discussion arose; which is improper with a Prophet. We say: "Is he delirious? Ask him for an explanation". But he said: "Leave me, what occupies me now is better than what you invite me to do. I make three recommendations to you: Expel the polytheists from Arabia; duly welcome the deputations that will come (towards you ), as I myself did". And he did not mention the third recommendation, or he mentioned it, but I forgot it". The authentic of Muslim 26 - Vows Order of performing vows
3092. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: Sa'd Ibn 'Ubâda consulted the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) about a vow that his mother had made and that she did not could have accomplished before his death. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "Do it in his name". Prohibition to execute conditioned vows
3093. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), One day, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) began to forbid us the vows by saying: “They do not prevent anything; and serve only to extract money from the miser (He who, through avarice, does not give alms, finds himself led to do so by the conditioned vow in the hope of obtaining some advantage)".
3096. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "Do not make vows. The vow has no effect against predestination. However, he extracts money from the miser." Wish made by one who intends to walk to the Ka'ba
3100. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) saw an old man walking leaning on his two sons. - "What about this man?", he asked. - "He made a vow to go on foot (to the Ka'ba)," he was answered. - "God," said the Prophet, "has no need of the mortification that this man imposes on himself"; then he ordered him to mount a mount.
3102. 'Uqba Ibn 'Amir (may God be pleased with him) said: My sister had made a vow to go barefoot to the Sacred House, and asked me to consult the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him). God upon him) about it. When I asked his opinion, the Prophet replied: "Let her go on foot and also on a horse". The Authenticity of Muslim 27 - Oaths Forbidden to swear by another than God, the Exalted
3104. According to 'Omar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "God, to Him the power and the glory, forbid you from swear by your fathers". Whoever swears by Al-Lât and Al-'Uzza (two idols) must subsequently testify to the uniqueness of God
3107. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: He who swears and who, while swearing, said: "By Al-Lât! ", will have to say: "There is no other divinity but God". As for the one who says to his comrade: "Come, let me bet with you", he will have to give alms (by way of expiation). He who takes an oath and finds there is better to do, let him do what he is best and atone for his oath
3109. Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari said: I came to the Prophet (peace be upon him) at the head of a group of Al-'Ash'ariyyun to ask him to provide us with mounts. "By God! he said, I will not get you mounts, because I have nothing to get you any". We stayed with him as long as God willed, then, a lot of captured camels having been brought to him, he ordered to give us three white-humped camels. When we left, we said: "God will not bless us, because we have come to ask the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to get us mounts, he swore that he would not a step and yet he provided them for us". We came back to the Prophet and we informed him of what we said, he replied: "It was not I who gave it to you, it was God who did it. By God! As for me, if it pleases God! I will not take an oath and then find that there is better to do without my expiating it and doing what is best”.
3120. 'Abdurrahmân Ibn Samura (may God be pleased with him) said: the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to me: "O 'Abd Ar-Rahman ibn Samura, do not seek authority, because if you get it as a result of a request, you will be held entirely responsible for it, while if you get it without taking any steps, you will be helped. and you judge that there is better to do, expiate your oath and do what is best". The formula: "In the pleasure of God"
3123. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) reports the following from the Prophet: Solomon had sixty wives. One day he said: "Tonight I will sleep with all of them so that each one becomes pregnant with a rider who will fight in the way of God". None of his wives became pregnant, except one who gave birth to a child with half of the body missing. The Messenger of God (peace be upon him) said: "If Solomon had added (please God), each of these women would have become pregnant with a horseman who would fight in the way of God" . Prohibition to insist on an oath likely to harm one's own if this oath does not relate to a prohibited thing
3127. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) said: "By God, whoever of you persists in keeping an oath harmful to his family is guiltier in the eyes of God than he who gives the atonement which God has imposed upon him". Oath of the impious and way to expiate him when he embraces Islam
3128. According to Ibn 'Omar ( رضي الله عنهما ), 'Omar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him) said: "O Messenger of God, in the time of Ignorance (pre-Islamic period), I made the vow to make a pious retreat for one night in the Sacred Mosque". - "Do your vow", replied the Prophet. The gravity of the sin a man commits when he accuses his slave of adultery
3138. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), Abu Al-Qasim (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever accuses his slave of adultery will suffer the prescribed penalty on the Day of Resurrection, unless the accusation is true". We must feed the servant what we eat, dress him as we dress and not burden him with what he cannot bear
3139. Abu Dharr (may God be pleased with him) said: One day an affront arose between one of my brothers (servants) and me. As I insulted him by his mother who was a foreigner, he went to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to complain. When I met the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him), he said to me: "Abou Dharr, you are a man in whom there is still a hint of anti-Islamism". I answered him: "O Messenger of God, he who insults men will himself be insulted by his mother and his father". The Prophet said: "Abu Dharr, you are therefore a man in whom still remains a bit of anti-Islamism: they are your brothers, these people whom God has placed under your authority. Feed them with your food, dress them like you you dress and do not impose heavy tasks on them; but, if you happen to do so, come to their aid".
3142. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When the servant of one of you comes to serve you the meal he has bothered to prepare, have him sit down to share the food with you. In case there is not enough food, give him at least one or two bites". Reward of the servant when he shows loyalty to his master and worships God properly
3143. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The slave who is sincere towards his master and who distinguishes himself by his piety towards the Lord, will have a double reward".
3144. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When the servant shows himself loyal to his master, he will receive a double reward".
3146. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Blessed is the servant who dies, having worshiped God well and loyally served his master . How happy he is!" The authentic Muslim 28 - Collective oath, belligerents, retaliation and blood money collective oath
3157. Narrative reported from Rafî' Ibn Khadîj and Sahl Ibn 'Abi Hathma ( رضي الله عنهما ): 'Abdullâh Ibn Sahl Ibn Zayd and Muhayyisa Ibn Mas'oud Ibn Zayd came out. Arrived at Khaybar, they separated. Then Muhayyisa found 'Abdullâh Ibn Sahl murdered and buried him. He then went to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), in the company of Huwayyisa Ibn Mas'oud and 'Abdourrahmân Ibn Sahl. As who was the younger of his two companions wanted to speak first, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "Let the older speak". He was silent and his two companions and told him the murder of 'Abdullâh Ibn Sahl to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who said to them: "Produce the oaths of fifty men among you ( to affirm that the Jews of Khaybar killed him) and to receive the price of the blood of your killed companion?". - "How could we swear, they replied, when we saw nothing?". - "Then it will be the Jews who, by an oath of fifty of them, will have to release themselves from your accusation towards you". (If fifty of the close relatives of the accused of murder swear by oath that he is innocent, he is acquitted. This is called qasama). - "How, they answered, could we accept the oath of the infidels!" So, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) acquitted at his expense the blood money for this murder. Belligerents and apostates
3162. According to Anas Ibn Malik (may God be pleased with him), people came to Medina to find the Messenger of God and as they had a very bad stomach, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him ) said to them: "If it suits you, go and drink the milk and urine of the alms camels". By following his advice, they recovered, but they killed the shepherds, reconsidered their faith, and seized the camels of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). As soon as they were informed, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sent men to follow them who joined them and brought them back. He then ordered to cut off their hands and feet, to gouge out their eyes with a hot iron and to leave them at "Al-Harra" where they perished (As a retaliation, because these bandits had killed the shepherds in the same way cruel). Claim to kill with the same weapon and to kill a man who kills a woman
3165. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), A Jew killed a girl with a stone to seize her silver jewel. It was carried, in agony, to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). "Is it so-and-so who killed you?, he asked her. She nodded her head. - "Is it so-and-so? - "Is it so-and-so?". This time, she nodded yes. Thereupon, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered that the head of this guilty Jew be crushed between two stones. Whoever attacks another, kills him or tears off a limb
3168. According to 'Imrân Ibn Husayn (may God be pleased with him), Ya'lâ Ibn Munya - or Ibn 'Umayya - was fighting with a man. One of them having bitten the hand of the other, the latter (Ibn Al-Muthanna) by withdrawing his hand from the mouth of the other pulled out his two front teeth. They went to complain to the Prophet (peace be upon him). - "Did one of you, said this one, bite one of his brothers like a stallion does, then he is not entitled to blood money". Application of the retaliation to the teeth
3174. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), 'Umm Hâritha, the sister of Ar-Rubay' injured a man. They questioned themselves with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) exclaimed: "The law of retaliation! The law of retaliation!". 'Umm Ar-Rubay' then said: "O Messenger of God! Should we take revenge on such and such? No, by God! We will not take revenge on her again". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "Glory to God! O 'Umm Ar-Rubay'! Talion is prescribed by the Book of God". She objected, "No, by God! We won't take revenge on her again." Anas added: "She did not stop protesting until at last the parents of the man accepted the blood money. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said: "Certainly, among the worshipers of God, so it is that God releases from the oaths that they have made in his name". Case where it is permissible to shed the blood of a Muslim
3175. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "It is not permissible to shed the blood of a Muslim who testifies that there is no other divinity but God and that I am the Messenger of God, except in these three cases: the adulterous husband, the culprit of a murder and the apostate who abandons the Muslim community". Sin of him who decrees murder
3177. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "No human being is killed unjustly without some guilt shall fall upon the first of the sons of Adam, for he was the first who had committed murder on the earth". Punishment that the murderer will suffer on the Day of Resurrection, the first judgment that will be rendered, will be that of the shedding of blood
3178. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The first judgment which will be rendered between men on the Day of Resurrection, will be that which relates to the shedding of blood". Seriousness of the sin committed with regard to blood, honors and property
3179. Abu Bakra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Time has completed a complete cycle as on the day when God created the heavens and the earth. The year has twelve months, four of them are sacred: three of which follow one another and which are dhûl-qi'da, dhûl-hijja and muharram and rajab of Mudar which is between jumâda and cha'bân". Then he continued: "What month are we in?". - "God and His Messenger know it better than us", we replied. The Prophet was so silent that we thought he would give it another name. He continued: "Are we not in the month of dhûl-hijja?". - "Yes", we answered. - "And in which country are we?", he resumed. - "God and His Messenger know it better than us", we answered. He observed a long silence to the point where we thought he would refer to him by another name. Then he resumed: "Isn't this the Sacred City (Mecca)?". - "Yes", we answered. Then he asked: "What day is it?". We said to him: "God and his Messenger know it better than us". As he was silent, we thought he would refer to him by another name. He resumed: "Isn't it the day of the sacrifice?". "Yes, we said, O Messenger of God". - "Well! he exclaimed, your blood, your property (Muhammad said: I believe he also said: and your honors) are as sacred to you as this day in this city and in this month. Surely you will meet your Lord and He will ask you to account for your works. Do not become, after me (my death), unbelievers again and do not fall back into error by killing one another. who is present communicates (my words) to the absent. It may be that the one to whom information is transmitted is wiser than the one who heard it from my mouth". The Prophet added: "Have I fulfilled my mission?". Price of the blood of the child in its mother's womb and price of the blood that must be paid by the one who kills inadvertently
3183. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), Two women of Hudhayl having argued, one of them struck the other and caused her to have a miscarriage. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) decided that there was to be paid as compensation a male or female slave of good quality.
3186. According to Al-Mughîra Ibn Chu'ba (may God be pleased with him), A woman hit her co-wife with the pole of a tent while the latter was pregnant and killed her. One of these two women was from the "Lihyân" tribe. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) decided that the blood money fell to the parents of the guilty woman and a slave to free against the fetus. A man of the culprit's parents objected: "Do we have to pay the price of the blood of a being who has neither eaten nor drunk nor cried (after his birth)? We owe nothing with regard to this fetus" . The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: “Poetry like that of the Bedouins? ". And he charged the relatives of the woman with blood money.
3188. According to Al-Mughîra Ibn Chu'ba and Muhammad Ibn Maslama ( رضي الله عنهما ), 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb having consulted the people on the abortion of the woman, Al-Mughîra Ibn Chu'ba replied: " The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) decided that there was to be paid, as compensation, a slave, male or female of good quality. then said: "Bring me another witness, affirming your words". Muhammad Ibn Maslama then came to declare that he was present when the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) rendered this sentence. The authentic of Muslim 29 - Legal punishments Punishment applied to the thief and value of theft
3189. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered to cut off the hand of the thief when it comes to the value of a quarter of a dinar or more ".
3193. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "In the time of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the hand of the thief was not cut off for a value less than the price of a shield or of a cuirass. And each one of them was of value".
3194. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had a thief's hand cut off for stealing a shield at the cost of three dirhams".
3195. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) said: “May God curse the thief! His hand will be cut off for stealing an egg; and they will cut off his hand for stealing a cable". Application of criminal punishment to the powerful and the humble. Intercession to ease this pain is blameworthy
3196. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), the Quraychites, saddened by the situation made to the wife of the Banû Makhzûm, who had stolen, wondered who would go to intercede in her favor with the Messenger of God (peace and blessing of God upon him). - "Nobody, they said to themselves, will dare to try this step, if not Ousâma Ibn Zayd, the darling of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him)". 'Usâma having spoken to the Messenger of God about this affair, received this answer: the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "How dare you intercede when it is a question of one of the penalties criminals decreed by God!". Then, rising, the Prophet made the following speech: "O people! What caused the perdition of those who were before you was when a prominent personage among them stole, they left him alone, and when a weak among them stole, they applied to her the penalty decreed by God. I swear by God, if it happened that Fatima, the daughter of the Messenger of God, committed a theft, I would cut off her hand!". Criminal penalty applied to adultery
3201. 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him) said: God sent Muhammad (peace and blessings be upon him) with the Truth; He revealed the Book to him and among the verses that were revealed to him was the verse relating to stoning. We have read it, understood it and remembered it. This is why the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has stoned and that we, after him, also had stoned. I am afraid that in the future someone will come and say: "By God, we do not find a verse relating to stoning in the Book of God"; we would then fall into the error of abandoning a prescription revealed by God. Stoning, in the Book of God, is of right against whoever, man or woman, commits adultery while married, when the proof is made by testimony, by pregnancy or confession. A person who confesses to committing adultery
3202. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: While the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was at the mosque, one of the devotees came and said to him: "O Messenger of God, I 'have fornicated'. The Prophet having turned his head away, the man went to stand on the side towards which the Prophet had turned his face and repeated to him: "O Messenger of God, I have fornicated". The Prophet turned his head away again and the man went to stand on the side towards which the Prophet had his face turned. When the man had thus testified four times against himself, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) called him and said to him: "Are you mad?". - "No, O Messenger of God". - "Are you married?". - "Yes, O Messenger of God". - "Let this man be taken away and stoned!" exclaimed the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him).
3205. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: When Mâ'iz Ibn Mâlik came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the latter said to him: "Is it true what has happened to my knowledge about you?" Mâ'iz answered: "And what is it?". The Prophet replied: "It happened to me that you had fornicated with the slave of the Banû so and so". Mâ'iz answered: "Yes" and testified four times against himself. So the Prophet ordered that the penalty of stoning be applied to him.
3210. According to Abu Hurayra and Zayd Ibn Khâlid Al-Juhanî ( رضي الله عنهما ), A man from the Arabs came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God, I ask you in the name of the Lord, decide for me only according to the Book of God". - "Yes, said his adversary who was more educated than him, decide between us according to the Book of God and give me the floor". - "Speak", said the Messenger of God to him (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "My son, said the man, was employed by this man and he abused his wife. As I had been told that my son deserved to be stoned, I redeemed him from this punishment by giving a hundred sheep and a slave. Enlightened people whom I consulted afterwards taught me that my son deserved only a hundred lashes and a year of exile and that it was the woman who should be stoned". - "By Him who holds my soul in His hands, cried the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), I will decide between you according to the Book of God: we will give you back your hundred sheep and your slave, and your son shall receive a hundred lashes and be exiled for a year. O 'Unays, go to this man's wife and if she confesses her fault, stone her". 'Unays went to the woman who made the confession and the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) gave the order to stone her. What was done. Stoning of Jewish fornicators
3211. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), a Jew and a Jewess who had fornicated were brought to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). Then the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went to meet the (learned) Jews and asked them: "What do you find in the Pentateuch about the punishment of fornication?". - "We blacken the faces of the fornicators, carry them on the back of a donkey so that their faces are turned in the opposite direction and we make them circulate like this in the streets". The Prophet replied, "Bring the Pentateuch if you are truthful." They then brought the Pentateuch and began to read it; but the young man who was reading, put his hand on the passage of stoning and read what preceded it and what followed it. 'Abdullâh Ibn Salam who was in the company of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to the latter: "Order him to remove his hand". As the young Jew removed his hand, the passage relating to stoning was found. The Messenger of God, (while returning), gave the order to stone the two Jews (fornicators). 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar, the transmitter, added: "I was among those who stoned them and I saw the man exposing himself to the stones to protect the woman".
3214. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abi 'Awfâ (may God be pleased with him), Ash-Chaybânî said: As I questioned 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abi 'Awfâ to know if the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him) had executed the stoning, he replied: "Yes". - "Was it, I resumed, before the revelation of sura An-Nûr or after?". - "I don't know", he replied.
3215. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Prophet (peace be upon him) say: "When one of your female slaves fornicates and the proof has been made, inflict beating her, but do not berate her. If she fornicates again, beating her, but do not berate her. If she fornicates for the third time and the fact has been proven, sell her even at the cost of a cord of hair". Criminal penalty applied to wine drinker
3218. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), as a man who had drunk wine was brought to the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him), he flogged him, about forty times, with two branches of palm tree. Number of whips applied to a man for his correction
3222. Abu Burda Al-Ansari (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Never inflict more than ten lashes on anyone unless he it is not the application of one of the punishments prescribed by God". Criminal penalties are an expiation of the sins committed by their perpetrators.
3223. According to 'Ubâda Ibn As-Sâmit (may God be pleased with him), When we were in the company of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he said to us: "Take me an oath of fidelity by engaging yourselves not to associate anything with God, not to commit fornication or theft and not to kill the soul which God has made sacred, except by virtue of a law!". “Whoever among you will be faithful to this commitment, continued the Prophet, will find his reward with God. Whoever (in this world) will have suffered a punishment for a breach of these commitments, this punishment will serve as expiation. As for the one who has committed an offense that God will have kept secret, it is up to God to chastise or forgive him if He wills. Accidents from an animal, a well or a mine
3226. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) said: "No blood money for an accident caused by an animal or for having fallen into a well or in a mine. For buried treasures the legal alms (Az-Zakâ) is of the fifth". The Authentic of Muslim 30 - Sentences Oath Imposed on Defendant
3228. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If the people were given everything they asked for, they would have asked for the life of the men and their property, but the oath is only given to the defendant". Judgment according to appearances and eloquence of the pleading
3231. According to Oum Salama ( رضي الله عنها ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When you plead before me, one of you may be more eloquent that his adversary, that then I believe that he is right and that I decide that he will be entitled to something of the good of his brother, I thus only give him in reality a piece of Hell; that so he doesn't take it." Case of "Hind"
3233. According to 'A'isha ( رضي الله عنها ), Hind bint 'Utba, the wife of Abu Sufyan came to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God, Abu Sufyan is a a parsimonious man, he does not give me enough to suffice for me and my children. Would it be a sin for me to take his money without his knowing it?". - "No, replied the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), take from his money enough for you and your children but without abusing it". Prohibition of excessive solicitation and refusal to pay one's due and claim what is not due
3237. According to Al-Mughîra Ibn Chu'ba (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "God, the Exalted, has forbidden you three things: disobedience to mothers, burying little girls alive and refusing to give back to others their rights or claiming what one is not entitled to. and waste of goods". Reward of the judge when he decides according to his own lights and pronounces a just or a false sentence
3240. 'Amr Ibn Al-'As (may God be pleased with him) reports that he heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) say: "The judge who decides according to his own lights and gives a correct solution will be entitled to a double reward; if he judges according to his own lights and gives a wrong solution, he will be entitled to a single reward". It is blameworthy for a judge to pass sentence when he is angry
3241. According to Abu Bakra (may God be pleased with him), I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "Let no magistrate pronounce sentence between two people when he is angry" . Quashing false judgments and rejecting innovations
3242. Narrated 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who breaks things into our religion which are not part of it is an apostate". Divergence between the judgments of two jurisconsults
3245. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) said: While two women were with their two children, a wolf came and took one children. The first said to the other: "It was your child that the wolf took away". And the other to answer him: "No it was yours". They complained to David, who ruled in favor of the oldest. On their way out, they met Solomon the son of David (peace be upon them) and told him the matter. - "Bring me a knife, said Solomon, to divide the child between you two". - "Don't do that, may God have mercy on you, cried the youngest, it's her son!". Solomon then judged in favor of the youngest. Recommendation to judges to reconcile the two adversaries
3246. Abu Hurayrah (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: A man had bought a building from another man. The buyer of the building found in his fund a jar full of gold. He then went and said (to the seller): "Take this gold, for I only bought the ground from you and did not buy any gold from you". - "Me, replied the former owner of the ground, I sold you the ground and all that it contained". They went to find a man whom they took as arbiter: "Do you have children?" asked the arbiter. - "Me, said one, I have a son". - "And me, said the other, I have a daughter". - "Well!, resumed the arbiter, marry the young man with the young girl; spend part of this gold on yourselves and make alms from another part". The Authentic of Muslim 31 - Lost and Found
3247. According to Zayd Ibn Khâlid Al-Juhanî (may God be pleased with him), A man came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and questioned him about the objects found. "Note the envelope of the object and the cord that closes it, then advertise your find for a year, if the owner shows up (return it to him); otherwise do what you want with it". - "And if it's a lost sheep?" asked the man. - "It will be, he replied, yours, your brother or the wolf". - "What if it's a stray camel?" - "You don't have to worry about him; he has his waterskin (i.e. his water reservoir in his humps) and his shoes (i.e. his hooves), he will know how to eat plants and drink until its owner finds it".
3251. 'Ubayy Ibn Ka'b (may God be pleased with him) said: In the time of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), I had found a purse containing one hundred dinars. I took it to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who said to me: "Make your find known for a year". I did it without anyone coming to recognize the purse and I went again to the Prophet who repeated to me: "Let your discovery be known for a year". I did it again without more success than the first time. I returned to the Prophet who engaged me a third time to make known my find for a year. I did so in vain and, when I came back to find him for the fourth time, he said to me: "Remember the number of coins in this purse, the nature of its envelope and its closing system; if its owner comes (to claim it, give -la-lui); if not, dispose of this scholarship". (The transmitter adds: Later I met him in Mecca and he said to me: "I no longer know whether it is three years or just one"). Prohibition of milking a female without the authorization of her owner
3254. Narrated 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Let no one milk another's animal without his permission. The "Would one of you like us to come to his apartment, break his pantry and take away his food? Now the udders of your animals are like your pantry where you keep your food. So let no one milk the animal of another without his authorization". Hospitality
3257. According to 'Uqba Ibn 'Amir (may God be pleased with him), We said to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "O Messenger of God! You send us on a mission and he happens to stay with people who do not offer us hospitality, what do you think of that? The Messenger of God then replied: "When you go down to people who order you to provide what is appropriate to offer to the guests, accept their hospitality. If they do not, take from them all that is is due to a host by people of their condition (by asking them - or according to a variant - by criticizing them)". Recommendation, in case of lack of provisions, to bring everything you have
3259. According to Salama Ibn Al-'Akwa' (may God be pleased with him), we went out on an expedition in the company of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and we were threatened with famine in the so much so that we thought of cutting the throats of some of our mounts. The Prophet (peace be upon him) then ordered us to bring whatever provisions we had and put them on a leather mat. The men then gathered around this mat. I endeavored to estimate the quantity of food brought and I estimated that it was equivalent to the length and the width of the place which a sitting goat could occupy. We were 1,400 men and each of us ate until we were full and stocked up by filling his game bag. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said: "Do you have water for ablution?". A man brought a vase containing just a few drops of water and poured the contents into a glass. And while we were performing our ablutions, the water (which was poured for us from the glass) flowed down so that it sufficed for all of us - namely, we were one thousand four hundred men. The Transmitter adds: Eight people then came and asked if there was water for ablutions, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) answered them: "The ablutions have already been done". The Authentic of Muslim 32 - Jihad Permission to Unexpectedly Attack Polytheists Previously Called to Islam
3260. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "According to Nâfi`, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made an expedition against the Banû Al-Mustaliq and surprised them when they were watering their herds; he killed a number of fighters and took away some captives; it was on that day that the Prophet captured Juwayriya. It was 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar who was part of this expedition, who transmitted this hadîth to me" . Order to make things easier so as not to disgust people with religion
3262. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to those among his companions whom he sent on mission: "Promise people (the good reward) and do not do not disgust them (with religion), facilitate them and do not create difficulties for them".
3264. Anas (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Make people easy and do not create difficulties for them; attach them (to Islam) and don't disgust them". prohibition of treason
3265. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "On the Day of Resurrection, when God gathers the first and the last, a flag will be hoisted to mark every traitor and they will say: This is the treason of so-and-so, son of so-and-so".
3268. Narrated `Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud (may God be pleased with him) that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "On the Day of Resurrection, a flag will be hoisted to mark each traitor and say: Here is the treason of so-and-so".
3270. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "On the Day of Resurrection, every traitor will be designated by a flag". The stratagem in war
3273. According to Jabir (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "War is a stratagem". Reluctance to wish the confrontation of the enemy and order to be enduring in combat
3276. According to `Abdullah Ibn 'Abi 'Awfâ (may God be pleased with him), Abu An-Nadr reports that a man of the tribe of 'Aslam, `Abdullah Ibn 'Abi 'Awfâ, wrote to `Umar Ibn ` Ubayd-Dieu when the latter was going to leave against Al-Harûriyya, (one of the sects of the Kharidjites), saying to him: During one of his battles led against the enemy, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him) arose, at the time of the setting of the sun, in the midst of the Muslims and said to them: "O people, do not wish to meet the enemy and rather ask God for peace; but, if you meet him, show endurance and know that Heaven is in the shadow of the swords". Then he added: "O my Lord! You who revealed the Holy Book, who made the clouds run in the sky, who routed the Allies, route the enemy and bring us victory over them!" Prohibition of killing women and children during war
3279. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), a woman was found killed in one of the battles of the Prophet (peace be upon him). The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) then condemned the murder of women and children. Kill women and children at night, unintentionally
3281. As-Sa`b Ibn Jaththâma ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him), asked about the wives and children of the polytheists who are killed (unintentionally) in a night attack ( carried out by the Muslims), says: "They are part of them" (i.e., you are not wrong to have killed them involuntarily). Permission to cut the trees of the infidels and burn them
3284. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) burned and cut the palm trees of Al-Buwayra, a palm grove belonging to Banû An-Nadîr. Qutayba and Ibn Rumh add: "It was on this occasion that God, the Exalted, revealed the following verse: Any palm tree that you have cut down or that you have left standing on its roots, it is with the permission of God and so that He thus covers the perverse with ignominy". Loot is lawful to the Muslim community
3287. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: One of the Prophets went on an expedition and said to his people: "Do not follow me : he who has contracted marriage and has not yet consummated it and who wishes to do so; he who has built a house whose roof he has not yet erected and he who has bought pregnant sheep or camels, waits until they give birth". Then he left and, having arrived near a village at the time of the `asr prayer, or very close to this time, he said to the sun: “You, sun, you are ordained by God as well as me. O my Lord, hold him in his course, let him enlighten us". The sun was then stopped, until God gave victory to His Prophet. When the battle was over, the men gathered what they had won as spoils and wanted to sacrifice it by setting it on the fire, but the fire did not consume it, so the Prophet exclaimed: "There has been deceit among you ; let a man from each tribe come and swear to me (by touching his hand)!". But the hand of a man remained glued to his and the Prophet exclaimed: "There are some among you who have defrauded the booty; let each man of this tribe come and take an oath to me (by touching his hand)! " But the hands of two or three men remained glued to the hand of the Prophet. - "It is you who defrauded the booty!", he exclaimed. So these men brought him a golden ox's head and placed it on the ground with the rest of the spoils and the fire devoured it all. The Messenger of God added: "Thus, the consumption of spoils has never been made lawful to any nation before us; it is because God, may His almighty and greatness be exalted, has seen our weakness and our impotence made them good for us". Booty
3290. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sent in the direction of Nejd a detachment of which I was a part. This troop having captured many camels, the share of each man amounted to eleven or twelve camels; and, (as a gratuity) apart, each received another camel. He who kills (an enemy) has a right to his spoils
3295. Abu Qatada (may God be pleased with him) said: In the year of Hunayn, we left with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). At the time of the encounter with the enemy, there was disorder among the Muslims. I then saw one of the polytheists who was going to kill a Muslim. I turned to him and, approaching from behind, fired a saber at the artery in his shoulder. This man then turned against me, hugged me so much that I thought I was lost. But it was he who fell dead and then he let go of me. As I joined `Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb, he said to me: "What do men have?". - "It is the order of God", I answered him. The Muslims returned and the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sat down and said: "Let him who has killed an enemy and who can prove it, take his spoils". I wondered in vain who could provide proof as far as I was concerned and sat down. The Prophet repeated what he had already said a first time, then a second time. Each time, I got up and wondered who could testify in my favor and as it was in vain, I sat down. On the third time, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to me: "What is the matter with you, O Abu Qatada?". I told him my adventure. - "He is telling the truth, declared a man, the remains of the deceased are with me, give him the value so that I keep them". - "No, by God! It will not be so, cried Abu Bakr, the Prophet will not deliberately harm one of the lions of God who fight in the path of God and His Prophet and give you the spoils conquered by him!". - "You are right", replied the Prophet and, addressing the man, he enjoined him to hand over the remains to me. The man gave them to me and, with their price, I bought a garden from the Banû Salima. It was the first good that I acquired since my entry into Islam.
3296. Abdurrahmân Ibn 'Awf (may Allah be pleased with him) said: Being in the ranks on the day of Badr, and looking to my right and to my left, I saw that I had two 'Ansar by my side, still quite young. I wished to find myself between neighbors more solid in combat; but one of them, waving his eye at me, said: "Uncle, do you know Abu Jahl?" - "Yes, son of my brother, I replied, and what do you want with him?". - "I was told," he continued, "that he had insulted the Messenger of God; by Him who holds my soul in His hands, if I see him, my shadow will not leave his until I kill him or let him kill me". I was very surprised by this language, when my other neighbor waved at me and said the same thing to me, I was not long in seeing Abou Jahl who was spinning in the fray. - "Well!, I said to the young men, here is your man, the one you are looking for". They flew towards him and slashed him to death. Then they went to the Prophet and informed him of their feat. - "Which of you killed him?", he asked them. - "It's me!", they both replied. - "Have you wiped your sabers?", he resumed. They said no. Then he looked at their sabers and said to them: "You have killed him, both of you; but his remains belong to Mu`âdh Ibn `Amr Ibn Al-Jamûh". Indeed, the two men were Mu`âdh Ibn `Amr Ibn Al-Jamûh and Mu`âdh Ibn `Afrâ'. (Mu`âdh Ibn `Amr Ibn Al-Jamûh's saber bore traces of the contents of the abdomen, attesting that it was he who had completed the murder while the other had only wounded Abu Jahl).
3298. According to Salama Ibn Al-'Akwa` (may God be pleased with him): It was during our expedition of the territories of Hawazin with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) that the following incident happened: A man in the saddle of a red camel came while we were having lunch with the Prophet. He had the beast barracked, held one of his bridles and tied him somewhere to go and eat with the faithful. During the meal, he kept looking here and there (to gauge the strength of our army). However, our weak points were in the back of the army; and also in the fact that some of us were rimless. The man left after a moment running. He released his camel, made it squat to mount it, then picked it up and left. So one of the devotees mounted a grayish-colored camel and followed him. - "I ran after him, says Salama, and I arrived first at the thigh of the camel (of this spy) then at the bridles of which I seized a rope. I made the camel stand up and, as soon as he gave birth my knees, I drew my saber and struck the head of the man, who immediately fell. I brought back to our camp the camel of the spy as well as the food and weapons on it. The Messenger of God ( peace and blessings of God be upon him) and the others received me. - "Who killed the man?", asked the Prophet. - "It is Ibn Al-'Akwa`", they replied. say: "All the remains belong to him". The booty obtained without hostilities
3301. (may God be pleased with him) said: God granted His Messenger the property of the Banû An-Nadîr as booty. As the Muslims had not had to use for this conquest neither horses nor camels, these goods became the private property of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). He therefore took from this booty what was necessary for the maintenance of his people for a year and what remained he spent on arms and mounts intended to fight in the path of God. About the words of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "What we leave is part of the public goods"
3303. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), on the death of the Prophet (peace be upon him) his wives wanted to send `Uthmân Ibn `Affân to claim from Abu Bakr their share in the inheritance left by the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "The Prophet, 'Aisha pointed out to them, did he not say: We are not inherited; what we leave must be spent on alms".
3306. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) said: "Let my heirs not share even one dinar from my estate. What I will leave , after deducting the maintenance of my wives (for they should not remarry until their death) and the allowance of my servant, must be spent on charity". Manner of dividing the loot among those who are present
3308. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) assigned to the horseman two shares of the booty and to the infantry only one share. Binding of captives and permission to pardon them
3310. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sent a cavalry from the side of Nejd. She brought back a man from the Banû Hanîfa, named Thumâma Ibn `Uthâl, chief of Al-Yamâma. They tied him to one of the pillars of the mosque. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went to find him and said: "What do you think now O Thumama?". - "All that is good, O Muhammad, he replied, if you kill me, you will have killed a man whose blood will be avenged; if you pardon me, you will have pardoned a grateful man and if you want money, you will get what you want". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) left him and the next day he came back and said to him: "What do you think now, O Thumama?". - "What I have already told you", he answered; and he repeated to her what he had told her the day before. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) left him again and the next day he came back and repeated to him: "What do you think now, O Thumama?". - "What I already told you", he answered. - "Let Thumama be set free!" exclaimed the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). He (Thumâma) immediately went to an enclosure of date palms near the mosque, washed himself and returned to the mosque where he pronounced these words: "I testify that there is no other divinity but God and I testify that Muhammad is the servant of God and His Messenger. By God, O Muhammad, hitherto no face of man on earth has been more odious to me than yours, but now your face is that of all whom I love the best. By God, no religion was more hateful to me than your religion and now your religion is the one I love the most. By God, no city was more hateful to me than your city and now no city likes as much as yours. Your knights took me when I wanted to do the `Umra, what do you think I should do? The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) congratulated him and enjoined him to perform `Umrah. When he arrived in Mecca, someone said to him: "You changed your religion?". - "I embraced Islam with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he replied; and now, never, never, by God, you will not receive a grain of wheat from Al -Yamâma, without the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having given permission. Expulsion of Jews from Hejaz
3311. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: One day when we were at the mosque, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came out of his house and said: "Let us go to the Jews" . We set out with the Prophet and when we arrived among the Jews, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) challenged them in these terms: "O troop of Jews! Embrace Islam and you will find salvation". - "O Abu Al-Qasim, you have fulfilled your mission", they replied. - "This is what I desire (that they admit that the Prophet has fulfilled his mission), resumed the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him); embrace Islam and you will find salvation" . - "You have fulfilled your mission, O Abu Al-Qâsim", repeated the Jews. - "This is what I desire", said the Messenger of God again (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and he repeated a third time what he had said and added: "Know that the earth does not "belongs only to God and to His messenger and that I want to expel you from the territory you occupy. Let anyone of you who owns any property sell it. Otherwise, know well that the land belongs only to God and to His messenger. ".
3312. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Jews of Banû An-Nadîr and Banû Qurayza having attacked the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him), the latter expelled the Banû An-Nadîr, but maintained the Banû Qurayza as a measure of favor until the day when, these having attacked him again, he then put their men to death and divided their children, their wives and their property among the Muslims. However, some people of the Banû Qurayza rallied to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who granted them security and they converted to Islam. The Prophet expelled from Medina all the Jews: those of the tribe of Banû Qaynuqâ`, those of the tribe of Banû Hâritha and all the Jews of Medina. Permission to kill one who violates a pact and to subject those who descend from their fortresses to the sentence of an equitable person
3314. Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him) said: The Banû Qurayza put their fate to the judgment of Sa`d Ibn Mu`âdh. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) sent for the latter. Sa`d arrived, carried on a donkey. When he approached the mosque, the Messenger of God said to the 'Ansar: "Rise before your master (or according to a variant: the best of you)!", then he said to Sa`d: " These people surrendered to your sentence". - "Well! I decide, answered Sa`d, that the combatants among them be put to death and that their wives and their children be captivated". - "You have rendered against them, said the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the very sentence of God (or according to a variant: of the King of heaven)". Perhaps Ibn Al-Muthanna said: "You have rendered against them the very sentence of the King".
3315. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), On the Day of the Ditch, a Qurayshite named Ibn Al-`Ariqa injured Sa`d in the middle vein of his arm. The Prophet (peace be upon him) pitched a tent for Sa`d in the mosque so that he would not have to go far to visit him. When the Prophet (peace be upon him) returned from battle, he laid down his weapon and began to wash; and as he was cleaning the dust from his head, Gabriel appeared to him and said: "You have laid down the weapon, but by God we have not laid it down. Come out; fight them (the enemies of Islam )". - "Where are they?" asked the Prophet. Gabriel then showed him the Banû Qurayza. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) fought them until they surrendered their fate to the sentence of the Messenger of God; who left their fate to the judgment of Sa'd. He then said: "Well! I decide that their combatants be put to death and that their wives and children be captivated". Initiative to attack and fulfillment of the most important obligation
3317. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the day he defeated the Allies, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to us: "Let none of you do the zhuhr (noon) prayer before we reach the Banû Qurayza". As the men feared to miss the prayer, some prayed before reaching the Banû Qurayza. As for the others, they said: "We will pray only where the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has ordered us to do it even if the time has passed". However, the Messenger of God did not reproach either one or the other. Reimbursement of 'Ansar donations by the Muhâjirûn after the conquests
3318. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: When the Muhâjirûn, coming from Mecca, arrived in Medina, they possessed nothing, while the 'Ansâr had land and palm groves. Every year, the 'Ansar shared with them half of the fruits of their property every year, as wages for their work. The mother of Anas Ibn Mâlik, nicknamed 'Umm Sulaym, was also the mother of `Abdoullah Ibn 'Abi Talha, he and Anas were therefore half-brothers. The mother of Anas having given the fruits of a palm tree to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he in turn gave them to his freedwoman, 'Umm 'Ayman, the mother of 'Usâma Ibn Zaid. According to Ibn Chihâb, Anas Ibn Mâlik told me that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), after having finished the fight against the people of Khaybar, returned to Medina. Then the Muhâjirûn returned to the Ansar their gifts and the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) returned to the mother of Anas the fruits of her palm tree which she had given him. Finally the Messenger of God gave to 'Umm 'Ayman, instead of (fruits) of these palm trees, fruits of his own plot (of Medina). Permission to eat loot food during battle
3320. According to `Abdoullah Ibn Mughaffal (may God be pleased with him), On the day of Khaybar, I found a skin full of fat, so I said to myself: "Today, I will not give it to anyone". At that moment, I saw the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) near me smiling. Letter from the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to Heraclius inviting him to embrace Islam
3322. Abu Sufyan (may God be pleased with him) said: During the period of truce that I (still a polytheist) concluded with the Messenger of God, I went on a journey. I was then in Syria, when a letter addressed by the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was brought to Heraclius. Dihya Al-Kalbi had been instructed to deliver it to the governor of Bossra, who in turn was to deliver it to Heraclius. Heraclius then asked: "Is there anyone close to this man presumed to be a Prophet?". He was told yes. Thereupon I was summoned with some of the Quraysh. We entered Heraclius and he made us sit in front of him saying: "Which of you is closest to this man who claims to be a Prophet?". Abu Sufyan replied, "It is I." I was then made to sit in front of him and my companions behind me. Then he summoned his interpreter and said to him: "Tell them that I am going to ask this man about the one who claims to be a Prophet, if this man is lying, his companions must point out his lies". Abu Sufyan said (quietly): "By God! If I were not afraid of being called a liar, I would have fabricated lies about the Prophet". He (Heraclius) asked his interpreter: "Ask him: What rank does his family (of the Prophet) occupy among you?". I answered: "She enjoys great consideration". Then he said, "Was one of his ancestors a king?" - "No", I answered. - "Do you call him a liar before he made such remarks?". - "No". - "Those who follow him, are they honorable or humble?". - "They are rather humble". - "Is their number increasing or decreasing?". - "It increases". - "Has any of those who have embraced his religion, then abandoned it in repugnance?". - "No None". - "Did you fight him?". - "Yes". - "What was the result of this war between you and him?". - "The war between us had alternatives: sometimes he won and sometimes we won". - "Is he betraying his commitments?". - "No, but we are on truce with him and we don't know what he can do about it". The transmitter adds: By God, I could not insinuate a word other than what I have just said. He (Heraclius) continued: "Is there anyone other than him who has ever said such things?". - "No". - "Well! I asked you about the rank of his family and you answered that he enjoys great esteem, so are the families of all the Prophets who preceded him. I asked you if someone of his ancestors was a king and you assumed not. I thought then: if one of his ancestors had reigned, he would have sought the throne of his ancestors. Then I asked you about of those who follow him, you replied that they are the humble and in reality, they are the ones who always follow the Prophets. I also asked you if you called him a liar before he said such things, you pretended not and I noticed that he who abstains from lying to men, necessarily wants not to lie about God. And when I asked you if someone after having embraced his religion abandoned him and repelled her, you answered no, such is the faith when it penetrates the hearts. I also asked you if the number of its followers increases or decreases, you answered that it increases, so is the faith which increases until it becomes perfect. I also asked you if you waged war against him, you replied that you fought him and the war had alternatives between you, such is the case of all the Envoys who are put to the test but who, in the end, triumph. I asked you if he betrays his commitments and you answered that he does not betray them, such is the case of the Envoys, they stick to their commitments. Finally, I asked you if someone before him made such speeches, you answered no and I said to myself: if someone before him had said the same things, then he is only imitating his predecessors". He (Heraclius) added: "What does he command you then?" - "He commands us to make the prayer (Salâ), to pour the legal of kinship and to be chaste". - "If what you have just said is true, he must be a Prophet. For my part, I knew that a Prophet would appear, but I did not know that he would be one of you. And if I could go to his house, I would have liked to meet him. Finally, if I was with him, I would have washed his feet (out of reverence) and he would have dominated even the place where I put my feet". Then he ordered that the letter of the Messenger of God be brought to him. (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and he read it: "In the name of God, the Most Merciful, the Most Merciful. From Muhammad, the Messenger of God to Heraclius the leader of the Romans. Hi to anyone following the right path. Then I call you to Islam. Convert to Islam, you will find salvation and God will give you a double reward, but if you turn away (from Islam), you will be burdened with the sins of those of your people who follow you: O people of the Book, come to a common word between us and you: that we adore only God, without associating anything with Him and that we do not take each other for lords apart from God. Then if they turn their backs, say, 'Be witnesses that we are submissive. The transmitter (himself Abu Sufyan) adds: When Heraclius finished reading the letter, voices were raised and a great tumult occurred in his entourage and we were sent out. I then said to my companions when we were outside: "The affair of Ibn Abu Kabcha (ironically designating the Prophet) has taken on importance since the king of the Banû Al-'Asfar (the Romans) fears it". And I kept on being convinced that the affair of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was going to prevail until God made me embrace Islam. Battle of Hunayn
3325. According to Al-Barâ' (may God be pleased with him), a man came to ask him: "Did you flee on the day of Hunayn, O Abu `Umâra?". - "No, by God, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) did not flee, but it happened that the youngest and most in a hurry among his companions had come out without breastplates and unarmed; or else they were lightly equipped. They went to the side of the skilful archers, people of the Hawazin and the Banu Nasr, who almost always fired accurately. These people sent them a volley of arrows which could hardly miss the target. Then the Muslims went to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who rode his white mule, while Abu Sufyan Ibn Al-Hârith Ibn `Abd Al-Muttalib held the bridle. on him) descended from his mount, invoked divine help, then he said: "I am the Prophet, without a lie; I am the son of `Abd Al-Muttalib"; then he put the Muslims in rows. Battle of At-Tâ'if
3329. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace be upon him) laid siege to At-Tâ'if without obtaining any result. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said: "We are going, God willing, to return (to Medina)". The faithful were pained by this resolution: "How, they exclaimed, we leave without taking the city!". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then ordered: "Let us attack the city tomorrow morning". The attack took place and there were many wounded. - "Tomorrow, if God wills, said the Prophet, we will return (to Medina)". And as the faithful showed their contentment, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) began to laugh. Demolition of the idols around the Ka`ba
3333. `Abdullah Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: When the Prophet entered Mecca, - Ibn Abu `Umar added: on the day of the Conquest -, there were around the Ka`ba three one hundred and sixty idols. With the end of a stick he held in his hand, he pricked each idol saying: The Truth (Islam) has come and Error has disappeared. For error is destined to disappear. The Truth (Islam) has come. And the False (disbelief) cannot begin or renew anything. Truce of Al-Hudaybiya
3335. According to Al-Barâ' Ibn `Azib (may God be pleased with him), when the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) concluded the truce of Al-Hudaybiya with the polytheists, `Ali Ibn 'Abi Tâlib proceeded to write down the terms of the arrangement; and he wrote: "This is what Muhammad, the Messenger of God, subscribes to". - "We do not accept this wording, declare the infidels, because if we knew that you are indeed the Messenger of God, we would not have fought you". - "Erase it", said the Prophet to - "By God! replied the latter, I will never erase it". The Prophet (peace be upon him) then erased the disputed words with his own hand. One of the conditions listed was that Muslims enter Mecca provided that they leave it after three days and that they carry no weapons on entering except the Julubban. As I asked Abu 'Ishâq what the word Julubbân means, he replied: "It is the scabbard and its contents".
3338. According to Sahl Ibn Hunayf (may God be pleased with him), Abu Wâ'il reported: The day of Siffîn; Sahl Ibn Hunayf stood up and said: "O Muslims! Beware of your personal opinions. The rest of us were with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) on the day of the truce of Al-Hudaybiya concluded between the Prophet and the infidels and, if we had wanted to fight them, certainly we would have done it!". In fact, `Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to say to him: "O Messenger of God! Are we not then in the Truth and they in the Error?". - "If" - "The dead among our fighters, will they not go to Heaven and theirs to Hell?". - "Yes". - "Why then would we concede humiliation in our religion? Will we return without God having yet decided, between them and us?". - "O Ibn Al-Khattâb, replied the Prophet, I am the Messenger of God; and the Lord will never lead me to perdition". Thereupon, unable to contain himself, went to Abu Bakr and then said to him: "O Abu Bakr! Aren't we in the Truth and they in the Error?". - "If" - "Won't the dead among our fighters go to Heaven and theirs to Hell?". - "If" - "Why then would we concede humiliation in our religion? Will we return without God having yet decided between them and us?". - "O Ibn Al-Khattâb, it is he, the Messenger of God; and the Lord will never lead him to perdition". It was then that Surah Al-Fath (the dazzling victory) was revealed; the Messenger of God sent for and recited it to him in full. - "Is this victory then, O Messenger of God?", he asked him; and the Messenger of God replied, "Yes", then went away, rejoicing.
3341. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), as the companions of the Prophet were extremely grieved at the return of Al-Hudaybiya and while the Prophet had made the sacrificial animals immolated there, these verses were revealed: Verily We have granted you a resounding victory...until...enormous success. The Prophet then said to his companions: "A verse has been revealed to me which is dearer to me than this world and all that it comprises". Battle of 'Uhud
3345. According to Sahl Ibn Sa`d (may God be pleased with him), when he was asked about the wound which the Prophet (peace be upon him) suffered at the battle of 'Uhud, he replied : "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was wounded in the face; he had an incisor tooth broken, and his helmet shattered on his head. Fatima, the daughter of the Messenger of God was washing the blood of his wound, while 'Alî Ibn 'Abi Talib poured water from the hollow of his shield. When Fatima saw that the water only increased the flow of blood, she took a mat, burned it and , when it was calcined, she applied it to the wound and then the blood stopped flowing".
3347. `Abdullah Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: I still seem to see the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), speaking of one of the Prophets who was struck by his people and who wiped the blood from his face saying, "Lord, forgive my people, for they do not know". The sharp anger of God against those whom the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) killed
3348. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Long live is the anger of God against people who treated His Prophet in this way". And, in saying this, he showed his (broken) canine. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) added: "Long live the wrath of God against a man whom the Messenger of God killed in the holy war". Misdeeds which the Prophet endured from polytheists and hypocrites
3349. According to Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was praying near the Sacred House, while Abu Jahl and his companions were seated not far from him. As a camel had just been slaughtered the day before, Abou Jahl said: "Which of you will be able to bring the placenta of the camel of the Banû tel and put it on the back of Muhammad, when he prostrates himself?". The most unfortunate of them got up and brought the placenta, then he waited for the Prophet (peace be upon him) to prostrate himself and put it on his back between his shoulders. They burst out laughing as they leaned towards each other. As for me, added the transmitter, although I was present at this scene, I could not act; but if I had any strength, I would have removed this placenta far from the shoulders of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then remained prostrate, while a man went to warn Fatima, still very young, who was not long in coming. She took the placenta, threw it away from her father and turning to the Quraysh, she reviled them. Having finished his prayer, the Prophet (peace be upon him) raised his voice calling curses on the Quraysh. When he cursed the impious, the Prophet used to do it three times and when he called on God, he did it three times too; and that was how he did that day: "Great God! It is Yours to ruin the Quraysh." When they heard his voice, the Quraysh stopped laughing, dreading the fulfillment of his invocation. The Prophet, on the other hand, continued: "Great God! Take revenge on Abu Jahl Ibn Hisham, `Utba Ibn Rabî`a, Shayba Ibn Rabî`a, Al-Walîd Ibn `Uqba, 'Umayya Ibn Khalaf , and `Uqba Ibn 'Abi Mu`ayt". The transmitter adds that he mentioned a seventh but that he did not retain his name and continues: "By Him who by the Truth sent Muhammad (peace and blessings of God be upon him) I saw all these people died on the day of the battle of Badr and they were dragged to the well of Badr".
3352. According to 'A'isha, wife of the Prophet ( رضي الله عنها ), she once asked him: "Was there ever a day for you more painful than that of the battle of 'Uhud?". - "Certainly, he replied, I had to suffer a lot from your compatriots, but what was most painful to me on their part was the affair of Al-`Aqaba, when, at the presentation of my requests, Ibn `Abd Yâlîl Ibn `Abd Kulâl answered by a total refusal. I turned around, distressed not knowing too well where to direct my steps and recovered my spirits only arrived at Qarn Ath-Tha`âlib; and then, raising the head, there I saw a cloud which covered me with its shadow and, having considered it, there I saw Gabriel inside who called me and said to me: "God, the Exalted, has heard the words of your compatriots and the answers they gave you; and he has sent the Angel of the Mountains to you, that you may give him, concerning these infidels, such order as you please". The Angel of the Mountains, having called me, greeted me and repeated to me what he Gabriel had said: "O Muhammad! God has of course heard the words of your compatriots and the answers they gave you; and I am the Angel of the mountains and your Lord has sent me to you to give me your order concerning them. Do you want me to make the two great mountains that dominate Mecca fall back on them?" - "No, I answered, because from the backs of these impious, I hope that God will bring out the faithful who will adore Him Alone without Give him associates".
3353. According to Jundub Ibn 'Abi Sufyan (may God be pleased with him), during one of the battles, the finger of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was injured; the Prophet then said: "You are nothing but a bloody finger. And what has reached you is in the path of God, the Great".
3354. Jundab (may God be pleased with him) said: The Angel Gabriel having remained some day without showing himself to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the Quraysh said: "He (the Prophet) is abandoned". It was then that was revealed: By the Rising Day! And by the night when she covers everything! Your Lord has neither abandoned you nor hated you. Invocations of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and his patience against the misdeeds of the hypocrites
3356. According to 'Usâma Ibn Zayd (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) one day rode a donkey saddled with a thick cloth of Fadak and took to the rear ' Usama Ibn Zayd; by going to visit the sick Sa`d Ibn `Ubâda who lived with the Banû Al-Hârith Ibn Al-Khazraj and that before the battle of Badr. He passed through a gathering of men, consisting of Muslims, idolaters and Jews, including `Abdullah Ibn Rawaha and `Abdullah Ibn 'Ubayy. The dust raised by the Prophet's donkey, falling on the meeting, `Abdullah Ibn 'Ubayy draped his nose in his shawl, shouting: "Do not make us so much dust!". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) greeted the group, stopped his donkey and got out; he invited the group to worship God and recited a passage from the Koran. `Abdullah Ibn 'Ubayy, then said: "O Man, certainly there is nothing more beautiful than what you had said; if it were true, but do not come to bother us with that in our meetings. you and tell all this to those who come to you". While `Abdoullah Ibn Rawâha exclaimed: "Come and take part in our meetings, we like it very much". At these words, the Muslims, the idolaters and the Jews insulted each other and were on the point of fighting each other. But the Prophet (peace be upon him) kept trying to calm them down until he finally succeeded. He then got back on his donkey and went to Sa`d Ibn `Ubâda and said to him: "O Sa`d, did you not hear what Abu Hubâb had said?, (by which he meant `Abdoullah ibn 'Ubayy), he said such and such". - "O Messenger of God, be indulgent and forgive him. By God! God revealed the Truth to you just when the people of this city had decided to choose him as king and to crown him. As God prevented that by the mission of Truth that He had entrusted to you, he (Ibn 'Ubayy) experienced a deep disappointment and that is why he acted as you had seen him". Then, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forgave him.
3357. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), One day the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was told: "Do you want to go to `Abdoullah Ibn 'Ubayy (to convince him to embrace Islam)?". He then mounted a donkey to get there and set off, accompanied by Muslims crossing a saline land. When they arrived, he (`Abdoullah Ibn 'Ubayy) said to the Prophet: "Get away from me, the smell of your donkey bothers me". One of the 'Ansar then said: "Certainly the donkey of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) exhales a more pleasant odor than yours". One of `Abdoullah's companions was irritated by these words and the two men insulted each other; then, the irritation having won over the companions of each of these two men, the two groups began to fight with palm branches, hands and soles. We were assured that this was the occasion of the following revelation: And if two groups of believers fight each other, reconcile them... Murder of Abu Jahl
3358. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said (after the battle of Badr): "Who among you can go and see what is happened to Abu Jahl?". Ibn Mas'oud then left and found him beaten to death by the two sons of `Afrâ'. He took him by his beard and said to him: "Is it you Abou Jahl?". He replied: "Is there a nobler man than me whom you have killed?". - or according to a variant: that his people killed? - According to the transmitter, Abu Mijliz added: Abu Jahl said: "If only someone other than a plowman killed me!" Murder of Ka`b Ibn Al-'Ashraf, the tyrant of the Jews
3359. According to Jabir Ibn 'Abdillah (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Who will rid me of Ka`b Ibn Al-'Ashraf who is in pain? acted towards God and His Messenger?". Muhammad Ibn Maslama replied: "O Messenger of God, do you want me to kill him?". - "Certainly yes", replied the Prophet. - "Allow me then to gossip about you in front of him". - "Say what you want". Muhammad Ibn Maslama went to Ka`b and said to him: "This man (the Prophet) wants to impose legal alms on us which is beyond our means". - "He asks you that again?", said Ka`b, by God, you will be even more annoyed with him than you are". - "We have just followed him and we do not want to leave him until we see how far where it will take us. So, I come to ask you to lend me". - "What will you give me in pledge?". - "What do you want me to give you?" - "Your wives!" - "How could we give our wives in pledge to you who are the most handsome Arab man?" - "Well! Your sons". - "How could we give you, our sons in pledge? You could blame them that they had been pawned for two loads of dates and that would be a disgrace to us. We will rather give you our weapons as a pledge". Muhammad Ibn Mas'oud then made an appointment with Ka`b and promised him that Al-Hârith, Abu `Abs Ibn Jabr and `Ubad Ibn Bishr would accompany him. four men went to Ka`b. Sufyan said: Another transmitter than `Amr reports that Ka`b's wife said to him: "I seem to hear a noise like that of the voice of a murderer". don't worry, replied her husband, it's Muhammad ibn Maslama, his foster brother and Abu Nâ'ila. The generous man responds to the call for help made at night, even if it was at the cost of his life". Muhammad said to his companions: "When he comes, I will approach him and when I hold his head between my hands, strike him". When Ka`b came down, carrying his weapon, he was told: "We smell a very beautiful odor!" - "Yes, he replied, my wife is the most fragrant of women Arabs". Muhammad then said to him, "Do you allow me to smell?" - "Yes", replied Ka`b. once?". And as he said this, he held Ka`b's head in his hands, crying out to his companions, "He is yours!". And they killed him. Battle of Khaybar
3363. Salama Ibn Al-Akwa` (may God be pleased with him) said: We left with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) for Khaybar and we traveled by night. One of ours, addressing `Amir Ibn Al-Akwa`, said to him: "Aren't you going to let us hear some of your verses?". who was a poet, immediately began to intone the following verses (to entertain his companions and encourage the camels to continue their journey): Lord, without You we would not have been led in the right way. We would not have done alms or Sala (prayer). Forgive us our sins, we are ready to sacrifice our lives in Your path. Make our steps firm in meeting the enemy. Awaken in us serenity. We who, when called into Your way, we hasten to satisfy You, O God. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then asked what was the name of the improviser and when he was told that it was he said: "May God have mercy on him!". One of ours then said: "O Prophet, he will therefore be a martyr; if only you were not to say these words now and he would have destined for a longer life!". The transmitter adds: "We reached Khaybar, which we besieged for so long that we suffered from famine. Then, God made us masters of the place. On the evening of the day when we entered the city, we had lit many fires. - "Why these fires and why did you light them?", asked the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "To roast meat", was answered. - "What meat?", asked the Prophet. - "Meat from domestic donkeys". - "Overturn the pots and break them", said the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "O Messenger of God, said a man , if we only overturn the pots and rinse them without breaking them?" - "Well, so be it," said the Prophet. When the troops were drawn up in line, had a short sword; as he used to Jew, the point of the blade of the saber went back and reached the knee of who died of this wound. - "As we were returning from Khaybar, said Salam a, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), seeing me silent and saddened, asked me what was wrong with me". - "O you, for whom I am ready to sacrifice the life of my father and that of my mother, is it true, as it is claimed, that the fruit of his act will lose?". - "And who said that?" asked the Prophet. - I answered him: "So and so, so and so and 'Usayd Ibn Hudayr Al-Ansâri". - "Those who said that, lied", replied the Messenger of God. - "He will have," he added, bringing together two of his fingers, "a double reward, because he has combined two qualities: that of someone who has made a great effort to satisfy God and obey him and that of one who fight in the way of God, few Arabs would have done so". Battle of the Allied, also named (du Fossé)
3365. Al-Barâ' (may God be pleased with him) said: On the day of the Ditch, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) carried with us rubble, so that the dust covered his belly, while reciting these verse: by God! Were it not for You, we would not be on the right path, we would not be giving alms or doing Sala (prayer). Send down on us serenity, For, our religion, those (the infidels) have refused it, For the leaders of the impious have refused our religion, when they seek temptation (al-fitna), certainly, we will say: No! And he pressed the last word, raising his voice
3366. Sahl Ibn Sa`d (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came to us while we were digging the Ditch and carrying the dust of it on our shoulders and exclaimed: "My Lord, the only life is that of the hereafter! Forgive the 'Ansar and the Muhajirun!".
3367. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "My Lord, the only life is that of the hereafter! Forgive the 'Ansar and the Muhajirun". Battle of Dhû Qarad and others
3371. Salama Ibn Al-'Akwa` (may God be pleased with him) said: I left before they called to the fajr (dawn) prayer, the dairy camels of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) were in the pasture of "Dhû Qarad". A servant of Abdourrahmân Ibn 'Awf met me and said: "We took the dairy camels of the Messenger of God, (peace and blessings of God on him)!". - "Who took them?", I asked him - "People from Ghatfân". So, three times, I began to utter this cry: "Help!" so much so that I heard the inhabitants of both sides (covered with black stones) of Medina, then, I hastened my march to join them (the people of Ghatfân) at Dhû Qarad where they watered the animals. Being an archer, I took my bow and I took down their arrows, exclaiming: "I am the son of Al-'Akwa`. And this is the last day of the scoundrel". I managed to take the camels back from them, and in addition I took thirty coats from them! At that time, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came, accompanied by a crowd of people and I said to him: "O Messenger of God, I have prevented them from drinking and they are thirsty. Now send men chasing them." - "O Ibn Al-'Akwa`, replied the Prophet, you have behaved like a master, so show yourself pitiful!". Then we came back and the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) took me behind him on his camel until we entered Medina. Exit of women in battle with men
3375. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) brought in his battles, 'Umm Sulaym and other women of the 'Ansar so that they give drink to the men and tend to the wounded. Number of battles of the Prophet (peace be upon him)
3384. According to Burayda (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) fought nineteen battles and took part in the fight in eight of them.
3386. Salama (may God be pleased with him) said: "I participated in seven battles with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and I was also part of nine expeditions sent by him and which a while ago were ordered by Abou Bakr sometimes by ' Usâma Ibn Zayd ". Battle of Dhat Ar-Riqa`
3387. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: "We went on an expedition with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). There were six of us and we had only one camel, which we took turns riding role. We had torn feet and, for my part, my feet were so damaged that my nails fell off. We then wrapped our feet with rags, which is why this expedition was called Dhât Ar-Riqâ` (riqâ ` means rags)". The authentic of Muslim 33 - Command Supremacy of the Quraysh over the people for the rank of caliphate, this rank will be granted only to them
3389. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "For this rank (sovereign power or caliphate), the Quraysh have supremacy over all people : their Muslims have it over Muslims and their polytheists over polytheists".
3392. Narrated 'Abdullâh ibn 'Umar (may God be pleased with him) that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The caliphate will remain in the hands of the Quraysh, even if there are only two men left on earth".
3393. Jabir Ibn Samura (may God be pleased with him) said: One day when I went with my father to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), I heard him say: "The caliphate will not reach its end only after twelve of them have entered it" and he added words that I had not heard. I then asked my father: "What did he say?". - "He said: All those who will access this power will be Qoraychites", he answered me. Appointment of the next caliphate and renunciation of appointment
3399. According to (may God be pleased with him), 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar reports that "Why did you not designate your successor?" was asked. replied: "If I appoint my successor, I will do it because someone who is better than me, Abu Bakr, has appointed his successor. If I appoint no one, I will do it because someone who is better than me, the 'Envoy of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), has not appointed his successor. adds: "When he mentioned the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), I knew that he would not designate a successor". Prohibition of claiming command and coveting it
3402. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), one day when I was at the house of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) with two of my cousins, one of them said: "O Messenger of God! Grant to us the command of some of the regions which God, the Exalted, has entrusted to you". The other also made the same request. The Messenger of God then answered them: "By God, we never entrust this power either to the one who claims it, nor to the one who covets it". Merits of the just Imam, punishment of the unjust, incitement to leniency towards the subjects and prohibition of imposing on them what is excessive
3408. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Each of you is like the shepherd who is responsible for his flock. The emir is like the shepherd and he will be asked to account for his subjects; the man is like the shepherd and he is responsible for his family; as for the woman, she has custody of her children and of the dwelling of her husband and she is responsible for it. responsible; the servant is also responsible for the wealth of his master and he will be called to account. Each of you is therefore responsible and he will be called to account for his responsibility". Loot Theft Severity
3412. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: Once the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) spoke of fraud during one of his sermons, he made it a terrible sin with terrible consequences. : - That I do not meet any of you, he added, on the Day of Resurrection, carrying a blatant camel around his neck and saying: "Sent of God! Help me" and I answer him: "I cannot nothing for you; I already warned you". May I not meet any of you, on the Day of Resurrection, wearing a neighing horse around your neck and saying: "Sent of God! Help me" and I answer him: "I can do nothing for you; I I have already warned". May I not meet, on the Day of Resurrection, any of you carrying on your neck a bleating sheep and saying: "Sent of God! Help me", and I answer him: "I can do nothing for you; I I already warned you". May I not meet, on the Day of Resurrection, any of you carrying on your neck a being crying and saying: "Sent of God! Help me", and I answer him: "I can do nothing for you; I I already warned you". May I not meet, on the Day of Resurrection, any of you wearing around your neck a garment or a piece of cloth fluttering in the wind and saying: "Sent of God! Help me", and I answer him: " I can't do anything for you; I've already warned you". May I not meet, on the Day of Resurrection, any of you wearing precious metals (gold and silver) around your necks and saying: "Sent of God! Help me", and I answer him "I can't do anything for you, I've already warned you". Governors (or similar) prohibited from accepting gifts
3413. Abu Humayd As-Sâ'idî (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) employed a man from the tribe of Al 'Asd named Ibn Al -Lutbiyya. - and Ibn Abou 'Umar added: "for the collection of legal alms (Zakâ)". When Ibn Al-Lutbiyya returned, the Prophet ordered him to render his accounts. - "Here, he replied, your money; and this is a gift that I received". The Prophet then rose in the pulpit, praised God and gave thanks to Him, then he said: "When I employ a man among you to collect legal alms, let him not come and tell me this is your money, and this is a gift that I have received. Why did he not stay in his father's or mother's house to wait for his gift? By Him who holds the soul of Muhammad in His hands, among you who take anything without being entitled to it; will wear it around their necks on the Day of Resurrection, whether it be a blaring camel, a bellowing ox or a bleating sheep". Then, raising both his hands so high that you could see the white of his armpits, he exclaimed twice: "Great God, did I transmit Your orders?". Obligation to obey the emirs when it comes to (religious) duties and disobey otherwise
3416. According to Ibn 'Abbas ( رضي الله عنهما ), this verse: O believers! obey God and obey the Messenger and those of you who hold the command...was revealed when the Prophet (peace be upon him) sent 'Abdullâh Ibn Hudhâfa ibn Qays Ibn 'Adî As-Sahmi, to the head of a detachment.
3417. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Whoever obeys me, obeys God; and whoever disobeys me, disobeys God. Whoever obeys to the emir, obey me; and whoever disobeys him, disobeys me".
3423. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "To listen to the leaders and to obey them willy-nilly, is a duty incumbent on the Muslim; except if it is a sin. In this case, he no longer has to listen to them, nor to obey them".
3424. (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) sent an expedition at the head of which he placed a man. This chief lit a fire and said to his men: "Enter, into this fire". Some thought of obeying him, while others said: "We fled from the fire". When the fact was told to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he said to those who thought of entering the fire: "If you had entered it, you would not have left it until the Day of Resurrection" . He praised the attitude of the others (who refused to obey the leader) and added: "Obedience is not due if it involves disobedience to God, it is due only when it is for the good" . The imam is a protection for those who fight behind him
3428. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "The commander (of the Muslims) is only a real shelter (for them). They fight behind him and are thus preserved (against tyrants and aggressors) If he commands the fear of God, the Exalted and proves himself righteous, he will receive the reward; to God), a share of the sin will fall to him". Obligation to take an oath of allegiance to the caliphs and those who will come after them
3429. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "The Israelites were ruled by Prophets. Each time a Prophet died, another succeeded him. But after me, there will be no more Prophet, there will be only caliphs and they will be numerous". - "And then, we asked him, what do you order us to do?". -"Whenever you have to choose a caliph, he replied, choose the one to whom the oath will be taken first and be loyal to him. Give each of the caliphs what he is entitled to, because God will ask them to account for the custody which He has entrusted to them".
3430. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "After me, you will see favoritism and things that you will reprove ". - "O Messenger of God, if we would then be present, said the faithful, what do you order us to do?". - "Pay what you owe and ask God what you are entitled to". Order to be patient in the face of the injustices of the governors and their grabbing of power
3432. According to 'Usayd Ibn Hudayr (may God be pleased with him), a man of the 'Ansar came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God, why do you not entrust me with not a command as you did with so-and-so?”. The Prophet replied, "After me you will find favouritism; so be patient until you meet me at the Basin." Attachment to the Muslim community during the outbreak of trouble and prohibition to separate from it
3434. Hudhayfa Ibn Al-Yaman (may God be pleased with him) said: While everyone asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) about the good, I asked him about the bad for fear of being affected. - "O Messenger of God, I said to him, we were in ignorance and in evil; when God sent us this good (i.e. Islam). Did after this well will evil come again?". - "Yes", he answered. - "And, I continued, after this evil, will there be good?". - "Yes, but it will never be pure". - "Who will trouble him?". - "People who will follow another Sunna than mine and who will guide towards another path than my good path and whose acts you will sometimes approve, sometimes you will disapprove of". - "And after this good, will there still be evil?". - "Yes, there will be heralds at the gates of Hell, who will call people to them and who will precipitate into Hell those who respond to their call". - "O Messenger of God, I said to him, describe these heralds to us". - "They will be of our race and they will speak our language". - "What do you order me to do if I witness this?". - "You will have to follow the community of Muslims and their leader". - "But if (then) Muslims have neither community nor leader?". - "Get away from all these sects, should you for that only eat the roots of a tree and remain so until death comes to you".
3438. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Whoever sees his emir doing something reprehensible, be patient, for whoever separates from the Community a span's distance will die the death of pre-Islamic idolaters". Recommendation to the army to swear allegiance to the imam during combat. Oath of allegiance (Ar-Radwân) under the tree
3449. Jabir (may God be pleased with him) said: On the day of Al-Hudaybiya, we were one thousand four hundred men and we took an oath (to the Prophet). Under the tree, a Samura, 'Umar held the hand of the Prophet (to swear to him). The transmitter adds: "We lent the Prophet the oath not to flee the fight and not to fight until death".
3459. According to Al-Musayyab Ibn Hazan ( رضي الله عنهما ), Sa'îd Ibn Al-Musayyab said: "My father was among those who took an oath to the Prophet (peace be upon him) with of the tree. However, the following year when we left to do the Hajj, we passed near the place where the tree was and we did not recognize it anymore. But if you have seen it, you know better" .
3462. According to Salama (may God be pleased with him), Yazîd Ibn 'Abi 'Ubayd said: As I asked Salama what oath they had taken to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the day of Al-Hudaybiya, he answered me: "To fight until death".
3463. According to 'Abâd Ibn Tamîm, someone came to find 'Abdullâh Ibn Zayd who said: "Here are people taking an oath to Ibn Hanzala". - "What oath?" - "To fight until death". - "I will not swear this oath to anyone after the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)", I replied. Forbidden to the one who made the hegira to return home
3464. Yazîd Ibn 'Abî 'Ubayd reports that Salama Ibn Al-'Akwa' being with Al-Hajjâj, the latter said to him: "O son of Al-Akwa', you have therefore returned on your steps to live in the desert?". - "No, he replied; but the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) authorized me to settle in the desert". The oath of allegiance after the conquest of Mecca to conform to Islam, jihad and good and interpretation of these words: "No more hijra after the conquest"
3465. Mujachi' Ibn Mas'oud As-Sulami (may God be pleased with him) said: Having come to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), I said to him: "Receive our oath to take part in the hegira". - "The hegira is over, he replied; it is entirely for those who made it. However, you can take an oath of allegiance to me that you conform to Islam, to jihad and to good".
3467. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), on the day of the capture of Mecca, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "You are not obliged to emigrate, but you must wage holy war with good intentions. If you are invited to wage jihad, obey".
3468. According to 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ), the Prophet (peace be upon him) was asked about the hijrah. And he replied: "There is no more hegira after the conquest of Mecca. But there remains holy war with a good intention. If you are invited to do jihad, obey".
3469. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him), a Bedouin asked the Messenger of God about emigration (he wanted to leave his desert and settle in Medina). - "Woe to you!, answered the Prophet, it is a serious matter. Do you have camels?". - "Yes!", answered the man. - "Do you pour alms from camels". - "Yes!", replied the man. - "Well! said the Prophet, accomplish pious works (across the seas), certainly God will not leave any of your works without reward". The loyalty pact of women
3470. According to 'Aisha, the wife of the Prophet ( رضي الله عنها ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) put to the test all the believing women who emigrated to him, by means of this verse : O Prophet! When Believers come to swear allegiance to you, (and swear) that they will associate nothing with God, that they will not steal, that they will not commit adultery...until the end of the verse. 'A'isha added: Believers who accept these conditions have thus legitimately taken an oath of allegiance. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was content to tell them: "You can go away. I accept your oath". 'Aisha continued: But, by God! His hand never touched the hand of any of them. The loyalty pact was exchanged orally. The oath of allegiance to obey and hear to the extent of ability
3472. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: When we took an oath of loyalty to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) declaring that we will obey his orders, he said to us: " As far as you can." The age of puberty
3473. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), On the day of the battle of 'Uhud, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) reviewed me. As I was then only fourteen years old, the Prophet did not admit me (among the combatants). At another review, the day of the Battle of the Ditch, when I was fifteen, he admitted me. The ban on taking the Quran to the land of polytheists if one fears exposing it to defilement
3474. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Omar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbids carrying the Koran during a trip to an enemy country. Horse racing and training
3477. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) organized a horse race; the horses which had been trained had to cover the distance separating Al-Hafyâ' from the pass of Al-Wadâ', while those which had not been trained had to cover the distance separating the pass of Al-Wadâ' from the Banû Zurayq mosque. The good is attached to the forelocks of the horses until the Day of Resurrection
3478. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The horses will have good in their forelocks until the Day of Resurrection".
3480. According to 'Urwa Al-Bâriqî (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Good is attached to the forelocks of horses until the Day of Resurrection, by which are won the heavenly reward and the spoil".
3482. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The blessing is on the forelocks of the horses". The Merit of Fighting in the Path of God
3484. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "God has pledged himself to the one who fights in His path and who has left his home only for this purpose and by belief in Him and His messengers to bring him into Paradise or to bring him back to his home with the reward or spoil he has acquired. the soul of Muhammad in His hands, any man who has received a wound for the cause of God will not arrive on the Day of Resurrection except with his wound spilling a liquid the color of blood and having the scent of musk. He who holds the soul of Muhammad in His hands, I fear that some believers would find it difficult to see me go without them and on the other hand, I cannot provide them with mounts. Medina behind none of the detachments that go out to fight in the path of God. By Him who holds the soul of Muhammad in His hands, I would like to fight in the way of God, to be killed there, then raised again, to be killed again, again raised again and so on”. The merit of the martyrs
3488. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There is no death, having obtained a reward from God, who would rejoice at the idea of returning to this earth, even obtains all this lowly world and what it contains; except for the martyr, he would wish to return to earth to be killed again (in the way of God), because of the reward lavished (in the hereafter) on the martyr".
3490. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) was asked: "Show me a work that has the value of holy war in the path of God - may His almightiness and greatness be exalted". And the Prophet replied: "It is unbearable for you". On the insistence of the companions who repeated the question to him two or three times, the Prophet opposed the same refusal. On the third time he said, "The fighter in the path of God is like the faithful who fasts, spends the night in prayer and obeys the commands issued in the verses of God without any interruption until this fighter is back". The merit of departing morning and evening to fight in the path of God
3492. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A single morning or a single evening of walking in the way of God is better than this low world and all that it contains".
3493. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd 'As-Sâhilî (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A single morning's walk carried out by a Servant in the path of God is better than this low world and what it contains".
3495. Abu Ayyub (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A single morning or a single evening of walking in the path of God is better than all this on which the sun rises and sets". The Merit of Steadfastness and Fighting in the Path of God
3501. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him), a man came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said: "Who is the most deserving man? ?". He answered: "It is the fighter in the path of God who sacrifices his person and his goods there". - "And who next?" asked the man. - "It is the faithful, he replied, who, taking refuge in a defile of mountains, devotes himself to the adoration of God his Lord and abstains from harming people". Interpretation of "Two men who one of them kills the other and both will enter Paradise"
3504. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "God will welcome with a smile two men, one of whom will have killed the other and will enter Paradise". The companions replied then: - "How so?". - "Such is the case of a fighter in the path of God who dies as a martyr; then God, will accept the repentance of his murderer who will embrace Islam, will fight in the path of God and will also die as a martyr". The merit of one who equips a fighter in the path of God and takes charge of his family for good
3511. According to Zayd Ibn Khâlid Al-Juhanî (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who effectively equips a warrior in the path of God is him - even on an expedition in the path of God and the one who replaces him by providing for the needs of his family is himself on an expedition". The dispensation from warfare in the path of God granted to those who have their excuses
3516. Al-Bara' (may God be pleased with him) said: When this verse was revealed: Those of the Believers and those who struggle are not equal... in the path of God, the Prophet ordered to call Zayd. He came to put this verse in writing. Then, Ibn 'Umm Maktûm, complained about his blindness. Then this verse was revealed Those of the Believers who stay at home are not equal - except those who have some infirmity. The Affirmation of Paradise's Retribution to the Martyrs
3518. Jabir (may God be pleased with him) said: A man said to the Prophet: "Where will I be, if I am killed (in the fight for the cause of God)?". - "In Paradise", replied the Prophet. The man immediately threw down some dates he had in his hand, then went to fight until he was killed. According to Suwayd, "a man said to the Prophet (peace be upon him) on the day of 'Uhud.
3519. Al-Barâ' (may God be pleased with him) said: A man from the Banû An-Nabît, - a tribe of the 'Ansâr - came and said to the Prophet: "I testify that there is no other deity that God and that you are His servant and His messenger", then he fought and was killed. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said: "This one has done little, but has been greatly rewarded".
3523. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: My uncle whose name I took did not take part in the battle of Badr with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). He was sorry and said: "I did not take part in the first fight delivered by the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) against the polytheists. But, if God allows me to attend another in the company of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), He will see how I behave". And he was afraid to say anything else. Then he witnessed with the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) the battle of 'Uhud. And as Sa'd Ibn Mu'adh presented himself to him, Anas said to him: "O Abu 'Amr where (are you going)?". - "I smell, he replied, the perfume of Paradise exhaling from 'Uhud". He adds: We found him killed and his body pierced with more than eighty wounds, blows from sabers, spears, arrows. His sister, my aunt Ar-Rubayyi' bint An-Nadr said: "I only recognized my brother from the tip of one of his fingers"; and this verse was revealed: There are men among the believers who have been sincere in their commitment to God. Some of them have reached their end and others are still waiting; and they did not vary in any way (in their commitment) he said: "It was believed that it had been revealed concerning him and his companions". Whoever fights for the word of God to prevail will be a martyr.
3524. According to Abu Moûsa Al-Ach'âri (may God be pleased with him), a Bedouin came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God! A man is fighting for his "to allot spoil, another fight to be remembered and another fight to display one's bravery. Who among all these is considered a fighter in the path of God?". And the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to answer: "He who fights so that the word of God has the upper hand". Interpretation of the words of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him): "The acts are only valid by the intention" and that the fight and other works are part of it
3530. According to 'Omar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Deeds are only valid by intention. To each man there will be no account only of his intentions. As for the one who has emigrated in view of God and his Messenger, his emigration will be reckoned to him for God and His Messenger. As for the one who has emigrated in view of earthly goods, or in order to find a wife to marry, his emigration will be counted according to the purpose which will have dictated his journey". Merit of the Expedition on the High Seas
3535. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) used to go to 'Umm Harâm bint Milhân (an old woman) who served him to eat. She was the wife of 'Ubada Ibn As-Samit. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) entered her home one day. 'Umm Haram served him food, then proceeded to skin his head. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) fell asleep, then, some time later, he woke up laughing: "What makes you laugh, Messenger of God?", she asked him . - "These are people of my Community, he replied, who have just been offered to my sight. They are making an expedition in the path of God and sailing in the open sea, like kings on their thrones - or like kings seated on their thrones". - "Ask the Lord, Messenger of God, she continued, that I be among them". He then invoked God on his behalf, then laid his head down again (and fell asleep). Then he woke up laughing: "What makes you laugh, Messenger of God?" she asked. - "These are, he replied, people from my Community who have just been offered to my sight. They are on an expedition in the path of God..." And he gave the same description as the first time. - "O Messenger of God, she said, pray to God that I be among them". - "You are already with the previous ones", he replied. 'Umm Haram bint Milhan actually embarked in the time of Mu'awiya Ibn Abi Sufyan; and, just as she had just left the ship, her mount having fallen, she died. the martyrs
3538. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A man who, on his way, finds a branch of thorns and removes it from his way, God will be grateful to him and will forgive him his sins". Then he added: “There are five types of martyr: One who dies plagued; one who succumbs to colic (the word must extend to all diseases of the bowels: dysentery, cholera, etc.); one who dies drowned; the victim of a breakdown and the one who dies fighting in the path of God, may His almightiness and His greatness be exalted".
3540. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The plague is a martyrdom for every Muslim". The words of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him): "A group of my Community will never cease to triumph by the truth, without those who oppose them being able to harm them"
3545. According to Al-Mughîra (may God be pleased with him), I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "There are people of my Community who will never cease to triumph over men ( through the truth), until the commandment of God comes to them, and then they will also be victors". The journey is a fraction of the torture. Recommendation to the traveler to hasten the step towards his family as soon as he completes his business
3554. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Travel is a painful experience. It deprives you of sleep, food and drink. From that you realize the purpose of the journey, return promptly to your family!" It's disgusting to come home at night from a trip (without telling your loved ones)
3555. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) never returned home at night; he only returned in the morning or in the evening". The Authentic of Muslim 34 - Hunting, Animals to Slaughter and What to Eat From Them Hunting with Trained Dogs
3560. 'Adiyy Ibn Hâtim (may God be pleased with him) said: "O Messenger of God, I had launched my trained dog while pronouncing the name of God". - "If, he replied, you throw your trained dog by invoking God, eat the game". - "Even if they (the trained dogs) killed him?". - "Even if they killed it. But if you find it with your dog, a foreign dog does not eat it". - "And if I throw my spear?". - "Eat the game that has been pierced by the spear. As for the one that has been hit through the weapon, do not eat it".
3567. Story of Abu Tha'laba Al-Khushanî (may God be pleased with him): I came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God, we live in a country belonging to the People of the Book and we eat in their vessels; the country where I live is full of game; I hunt there with my bow and I hunt there with a trained dog and with another that is not trained. tell me what we are permitted to do in such cases". - "As for, he replied, being in a country belonging to the People of the Book and eating in their vessels, if you find other vessels than those they use, do not eat in them. their vessels; but if you find none, wash these vessels, use them to eat. As for the question of the game-rich country, hunt there with your bow, calling on the name of God and eat the game thus killed. If you hunt with your trained hound, calling upon the name of God, eat the game that he takes also. the". Game found after hunting
3568. According to Abu Tha'laba (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If you throw your arrow to hunt a game and you lose track of it to find it in the sequel, eat it unless it is putrefied". Prohibition of eating carnivorous animals and birds in the greenhouses
3570. According to Abu Tha'laba (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade eating the flesh of carnivorous animals. Permission to eat sea animals
3576. Jabir (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God sent us with Abu 'Ubayda at the head, to intercept a caravan of the Qurayshites, and gave us a bag of dates as our only provision. Abou 'Ubayda distributed these dates to us, one by one. A man asked: "How did you eat them?". And Jabir replied: "We sucked them in the same way as an infant's head (the breast of its mother), then we drank water afterwards and that was enough for us a whole day. We also picked the leaves of trees which we wet with water to eat them. We went towards the coast and we seemed to see on the shore like a small mound of sand. We approached and found a large marine mammal known as the sperm whale". Abu 'Ubayda exclaimed: "A dead animal to eat? No; we are the messengers of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). We are making an expedition in the path of God. But since we are compelled to eat it". We remained one month to consume the flesh of this sperm whale, to know that we were three hundred men and we ended up fattening. I can see us scooping grease from his eye into jars and cutting pieces the enormity of an ibex out of his flesh. Abu 'Ubayda had thirteen men installed in the hollow of his eye and took one of his ribs and made it bend (like a bow); then made the largest camel we had pass under it, after having overloaded it with baggage. Finally, we took some of its meat after having cut it into slices and dried it. When we returned to Medina, we informed the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) of the event and he replied: "It is a food that God has granted you. Do you still have this meat to give us to eat?". We brought to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) this meat and he ate it. Ban on eating the flesh of domestic donkeys
3582. Abu Tha'laba (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Prophet (peace be upon him) forbade the consumption of the flesh of domestic donkeys".
3583. From Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade the eating of the flesh of domestic donkeys".
3585. Ash-Chaybânî said: I questioned 'Abdoullâh Ibn 'Abi 'Awfâ on the consumption of the flesh of domestic donkeys. So he said: We suffered from hunger on the day of Khaybar, while we were in the company of the Prophet (peace be upon him). Now, having captured domestic donkeys, we cut their throats. While our pots were boiling, the herald of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came and shouted "Upset the pots! And do not eat the flesh of the domestic donkeys". I say: "The ban was absolute! What did he say?". - "We discussed among ourselves and some said: The Prophet pronounced an absolute prohibition and others saw that he had prohibited them until the faithful return the quint to the Public Treasury".
3591. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "I do not know if the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade the consumption of the flesh of domestic donkeys, because they served as mounts to the faithful and that he did not like to see these mounts disappear, or if, on the day of Khaybar, he forbade (absolutely) the consumption of the flesh of domestic donkeys".
3592. Salama Ibn Al-'Akwa' (may God be pleased with him) said: We set out with the Prophet (peace be upon him) for Khaybar and God granted us victory. At night, people lit a big fire. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then asked: "What is this fire? Why did you light it?". And the companions answer: "To cook meat". - "But what meat?", he asked. - "That of domestic donkeys". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then exclaimed: "Pour out the contents of the vases and break them". A man asked: "O Messenger of God! Can we pour out the contents of the vases and wash them (only)". And the Prophet gave his approval.
3593. Narrative of Anas (may God be pleased with him): When the Prophet conquered Khaybar, we chased donkeys out of the village. With that, we cooked it. But a herald of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) began to shout: "God and His Messenger forbid you to eat the flesh of domestic donkeys, because it is an abomination, the work of the devil". So we spilled the contents of the pots when they were boiling and filled with meat. The flesh of horses
3595. Account of Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ): During the expedition of Khaybar, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade the consumption of the flesh of donkeys and tolerated that of the meat of horses.
3597. Asma ( رضي الله عنها ) said: "We slaughtered a horse during the lifetime of the Prophet (peace be upon him) and ate it". The flesh of the lizard
3598. Narrated Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ): Asked about the lizard, the Prophet (peace be upon him) replied: "Neither do I eat it, nor forbid its consumption".
3603. Story of Khâlid Ibn Al-Walîd (may God be pleased with him), having entered with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) to Maymûna, wife of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him) and the maternal aunt of Khâlid Ibn Al-Walîd and Ibn 'Abbas, he found a roasted lizard at her house, which his sister Hufayda bint Al-Hârith had brought to her from Nejd. She offered some to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), but, as it was rare that he stretched out his hand to eat a dish before it had been spoken to him and said the name , as soon as he stretched out his hand, the women present advised him of the nature of the dish that was presented to him, saying to him: "It is lizard, O Messenger of God". Immediately, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) removed his hand. - "Is the lizard therefore an illicit dish? O Messenger of God!", asked Khalid Ibn Al-Walid. - "No, replied the Prophet; but as there is none in my native country, I feel reluctant to eat it". - "So, adds Khâlid, I cut up the animal and ate it in front of the Messenger of God who looked at me without defending myself".
3604. Ibn 'Abbas ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: 'Umm Hufayd, my maternal aunt offered the Prophet (peace be upon him) butter, cheese and lizards. He ate butter and cheese and did not taste the lizard that he repelled. He added: "The lizard was eaten at the table of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). If the lizard had been forbidden, we would not have eaten it at the table of the Messenger of God. (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". Grasshoppers
3610. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abi 'Awfâ (may God be pleased with him) said: "We made with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) seven expeditions during which we ate locusts". hares
3611. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: "We went hunting a hare in Marr Az-Zahrân. The people began to pursue it, but got tired and it was I who reached it I took him and brought him to Abu Talha who cut his throat and sent to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) his hip and his two thighs. God (peace and blessings be upon him), he accepted them". Different ways of hunting and reluctance to throw stones
3612. According to Abu Burayda, 'Abdullâh Ibn Al-Mughaffal saw a man of his friends throw stones with his fingers and said to him: "Do not do this anymore, because the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him ) forbade doing so, according to one variant, it displeased him". "This," he added, "is neither for capturing game nor for harming the enemy, but it might break someone's tooth or gouge out his eye." Subsequently, having seen this same individual again throwing stones, 'Abdullâh repeated the same words to him: "Did I not tell you that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had forbidden the throw stones or at least declared that he did not like it? Since you start again after that I will not speak to you again during such and such a period". Restraining animals prohibited
3616. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade keeping animals and making them the target of arrows or others".
3618. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), Ibn 'Umar passed by people who were tying a hen to use as a target. When they saw him, they separated and walked away from the hen. Then Ibn 'Umar asked: "Who is it that has done this? The Prophet (peace be upon him) cursed anyone who does so". The Authentic of Muslim 35 - Beasts to Sacrifice The Moment of Sacrifice
3621. According to Jundab Ibn Sufyan (may God be pleased with him), I was present alongside the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) on the day of the sacrifice. The Prophet made the prayer and, at the moment of leaving, he noticed that the slaughter of the beasts of sacrifice before the end of the prayer and said: "Let him who has immolated his beast of sacrifice before making the prayer or while we were praying, immolate another beast of sacrifice. As for the one who has not yet immolated it, let him begin to slaughter it (pronouncing) the name of God".
3624. According to Al Barâ' Ibn 'Azib (may God be pleased with him): My maternal uncle Abu Burda sacrificed his animal of sacrifice before the prayer. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "This sheep is sacrificed for its flesh (and is not considered a sacrifice)!". The man then said, "O Messenger of God, I have a goat that is less than a year old." And the Prophet replied: "So sacrifice her; she is enough for you, but from now on such a thing will no longer be enough for anyone". And he added: "Whoever slaughters his sacrificial animal before prayer, he will have done it for his own account and whoever slaughters it after prayer, he will have done it for the love of God and will have followed the tradition of the Muslims".
3630. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), on the day of the sacrifice, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever has sacrificed his victim before prayer must make the sacrifice again." Then a man stood up and said, "O Messenger of God, this day is a day when one loves to eat meat." He alluded to his industrious neighbors for whom he had hastened the sacrifice, and I believe the Messenger of God believed him. The man continued: "I have a young goat under one year old that I prefer to two butchers, should I sacrifice it?". The Prophet allowed it. "I don't know," said Anas, "whether that permission was granted to anyone other than him or not." The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then went to two rams which he sacrificed. The faithful went to the rams and shared them — or, according to a variant — each took a piece of meat. The age of the animals to be sacrificed
3633. According to 'Uqba Ibn 'Amir (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having given him a herd of goats to distribute to his companions for sacrifice, a kid remained after the partition. As he told this to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the latter said to him: "Use it for your sacrifice". And Qutayba narrated it with minimal difference. Self-immolation, pronouncing the name of God and takbîr
3635. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) immolated with his hands two horned rams, whose color leaned towards white. He began by pronouncing the basmala (saying in the name of God the Most Merciful, the Most Merciful), then the takbîr (saying God is great) and ended by putting his foot on the neck of each animal and slaughtering it. Tolerance to be sacrificed with a tool that lets blood flow except nails, teeth and bones
3638. According to Râfi' Ibn Khadîj (may God be pleased with him), I said: "O Messenger of God, we are going to meet the enemy tomorrow and we have no knives". - "Hurry up, replied the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and shed blood by pronouncing the name of God. Eat any animal, except its teeth or its nails. Here is why; the tooth is a bone and the nail is the knife of the Abyssinians". We took as booty camels and sheep. When a camel escaped, a man shot an arrow at it and pinned it to the spot. - "These camels, then said the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), are frightened like wild animals. If one of them escapes you, act as we have just done". What was forbidden as "meat" of sacrificed animals at the beginning of the Islamic era and its repeal
3639. Account of 'Ali Ibn 'Abi Talib (may God be pleased with him), Abu 'Ubayd said: "I attended the first day of the feast of the sacrifice with 'Ali Ibn 'Abi Talib. He made the prayer before proceeding to the sermon, then addressed the faithful in these terms: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has forbidden us to eat the flesh of your victims after the third day".
3641. Narrated Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said, "Do not eat the flesh of your sacrificial beasts longer than three days".
3643. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Wâqid, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade eating the flesh of sacrificial animals for more than three days. 'Abdullâh ibn 'Abi Bakr said: I reminded 'Amra of this and she trusted it, saying: I heard 'Aisha say: On the occasion of the feast of the sacrifice, some poor Bedouins went (to the city ) during the lifetime of the Prophet (peace be upon him). He then said: "Keep (of the meat) what will be enough for you for three days and give alms from the rest". Some time later, the Prophet was told: "O Messenger of God, people want to use the sacrificial animals (more than three days old) to make skins with their skins and draw fat from their bodies". - "What prevents you from doing it?" answered the Prophet. - "But, O Messenger of God, you have forbidden us to eat the meat of sacrificial animals for more than three days". - "It was because of the poor Bedouins who had gone to the city that year. Eat of this meat as you wish, save some and give alms".
3644. Jabir (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade eating the flesh of sacrificial beasts outside three days; then he says, "Eat it, stock up on it, and keep it."
3648. According to Salama Ibn Al-'Akwa' (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Let the one among you who made the sacrifice keep no more in his habitation nothing of the flesh of the sacrificial beasts on the morning of the fourth day". The following year, the Messenger of God was asked if we should do as this year as in the previous year. - "No! The previous year was hard for the people and I wanted you to come to the aid of the poor by distributing to them the meat of your sacrificial animals". Al-Fara' and Al-'Atîra
3652. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "No fara' nor 'atîra (a sheep sacrificed in the month of rajab)". Ibn Râfi' added: "The far' consisted in sacrificing to the idols the first born of the camels". The authentic of Muslim 36 - Drinks Prohibition of wine made from grapes, dates and any intoxicating drink
3660. 'Ali Ibn 'Abi Talib (may God be pleased with him) said: I got as booty an old camel on the day of Badr; where I accompanied the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who gave me another old camel. One day I made them kneel at the door of a man of the 'Ansar. I wanted to carry "idhkhîr" (aromatic plant) on them to sell. I was accompanied by a jeweler from the Banû Qaynuqâ' who was to help me (by buying the idhkhîr) to cover the expenses of my wedding meal. Hamza ibn 'Abd Al-Muttalib feasted in this house with a slave girl who sang to him: "O Hamza, let us slaughter the old camels". Thereupon Hamza leapt on his sword, cut off the humps of the two camels, disembowelled them and took their livers. I asked Ibn Chihâb: "Did he take anything from the bumps?". He answered me: "He sliced their bumps and took them". According to Ibn Chihâb, continued: I then saw this scene which had terrified me; and I went to the Prophet (peace be upon him). This one received the visit of Zayd Ibn Hâritha. I told him what had just happened; then I went with him and Zayd to find Hamza. The Prophet began to reproach Hamza for what he had done. Looking him in the face, Hamza exclaimed, "What are you people, if not my father's slaves?" The Messenger of God retraced his steps backwards and moved away from them.
3662. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: On the day when the ban on the consumption of wine was revealed I was pouring drink for people in the house of Abu Talha. The fermented liquor used at that time was fadikh (fermented liquor from dates). When we heard the herald calling, Abou Talha said to me: "Go out and see what he is saying." As I left, I heard the herald exclaim: "Attention! The consumption of fermented drinks is (from now on) prohibited!". The fermented drinks were then spread and flowed through the streets of Medina. So, adds Anas, Abou Talha said to me: "Go out and spread this liquor." I went out and as I spilled it, I heard some people say, "So and so were killed while they had this liquor in their bellies." Perhaps Anas added: It was about this that this verse was revealed: It is not a sin for those who have faith and do good works in what they have consumed (from wine and gambling winnings before their prohibition) as long as they are pious (avoiding forbidden things after knowing about them) and believing (accepting their prohibition) and doing good works. Reluctance to ferment dates and grapes together
3674. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh Al-Ansâri ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Prophet (peace be upon him) forbade the mixing of raisins with dates and unripe dates with ripe dates".
3681. Abu Qatadah (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Do not make wine either by mixing together unripe dates and fresh dates or by mixing together raisins with ripe dates; but it is permitted to macerate each of them separately". Prohibition of the use of jars, palm barrels, gourds and skins coated with pitch for fermentation and its repeal unless the liquor produced becomes intoxicating
3693. According to (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade the preparation of wine by making use of gourds and tarred vessels.
3694. Al-'Aswad said: I asked the mother of the Believers what were the vessels in which the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had forbidden to prepare wine, she said to me: "It forbade us, the members of his family, to prepare wine using gourds and tarred vases".
3705. Sa'îd Ibn Jubayr said: "I testify that Ibn 'Umar and Ibn 'Abbas were present when the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had forbidden to prepare wine by using gourds, jars , tarred vases and barrels of palm trees".
3726. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "When the Prophet (peace be upon him) had forbidden to prepare wine by making use of certain vessels, it was pointed out to him that people could not not all obtain skins; so he tolerated the use of untarred jars". Any intoxicating liquor is wine and wine is prohibited
3727. 'Aisha ( رضي الله عنها ) said: Asked about the bit' (fermented drink made from honey), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "Any intoxicating drink is prohibited". Punishment applied to one who drinks wine and does not abstain, not to drink it again in the future life
3733. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "All that intoxicates is wine and all that intoxicates is prohibited. Whoever continues to drink intoxicating liquors in the here below until his death and does not return to resipiscence, will be deprived of them in the hereafter". Tolerance to take "nabîdh" which is not fermented and has become intoxicating
3746. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him), Abu 'Usayd As-Sâ'idî invited the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to his wedding. It was the woman he married, the new bride, who served them. - "O, said Sahl, do you know what she served to drink to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)? She had macerated dates, during the night, in a large container and when the Prophet had eaten, she served him to drink this drink".
3747. Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) was told about a woman from the Arabs. He ordered Abu 'Usayd to summon her (the Prophet wanted to marry her). Abou 'Usayd then summoned this woman who came and stayed at the Banû Sâ'ida fortress. The Prophet (peace be upon him) went there and when he entered her house, he saw a woman lowering her head. As the Prophet (peace be upon him) addressed her, she exclaimed: "I take refuge with God against you". - "Well, he replied, you have secured a refuge against me (I will not marry you)". - "Do you know, we asked this woman, who this person was?". - "No", she replied. - "It was, he was told, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who came to ask for your hand". - "I was too unworthy (to have treated him like this)," she cried. Sahl said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then went to the Saqîfa of the Banû Sâ'ida; sat down, he and his companions, then said: "O Sahl, give us to drink (wine which has not yet been fermented)". I gave them a drink from this bowl.
3748. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), I served a drink to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) in my bowl which here is of all drinks: "Honey, [nabîdh], water and milk". Permission to drink milk
3749. Abu Bakr (may God be pleased with him) said: "When we set out from Mecca towards Medina with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and while we were passing by a shepherd, the The Prophet was thirsty. So I went and milked him some milk; then I brought it to him. He drank it and I was then satisfied." The nabîdh to drink and the closing of the vases
3752. Abu Humayd As-Sâ'idî ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I brought a bowl of the milk of An-Naqî' to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), which was not covered. The Messenger of God then said to me: "Why did you not cover it, if only with a small stick placed across the vase?". Abu Humayd added, "He (the Prophet) commanded us to do two things during the night: tie the mouths of the skins and close the doors."
3753. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdoullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: We were with the Prophet (peace be upon him) when he asked us to give him a drink. A man then said to him: "O Messenger of God! Can we give you a drink of nabîdh (delicious drink made from dates)?". - "Yes", he replied. The man left and came back with a glass full of nabîdh. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) then said: "Why did you not cover him even with a small stick?" Then he drank it. Closing of vessels, skins and doors by invoking the name of God, putting out the fire before sleeping and restraining the children in the evening
3755. According to Jabir (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "(When night falls), cover the vessels, tie the openings of the skins, close the doors, extinguish the lamps, for the devil cannot untie the skins, nor open the doors, nor uncover the vases. vase) calling on the name of God, let him do it; for a mouse could set fire to a house".
3759. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Do not leave the fire lit in your dwellings when you sleep".
3760. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: A house in Medina was burned with its inhabitants during the night. When the Prophet (peace be upon him) was told about this event, he said: "Fire is your enemy. When you go to sleep, put it out." Rules of decorum and judgments relating to food and drink
3767. 'Umar Ibn 'Abi Salama (may God be pleased with him) said: (During my childhood), I was under the tutelage of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). As (while eating) I put my hand in the dish from all sides, he said to me: "Boy, begin by pronouncing the name of God - saying: (In the name of God the Most Merciful, the Most Merciful), serve rise with your right hand and eat (from the side) that is in front of you".
3769. Abu Sa'id (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbids folding the skins (to drink from them). You can drink Zamzam water while standing
3776. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "I gave Zamzam water to drink to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). He drank it while standing". It is disgusting to breathe into the vase, but it is recommended to breathe three times outside the vase
3781. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) breathed three times while drinking (outside the vessel he was using)". Recommendation to drink milk and water starting from the right
3783. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was brought to the Messenger of God mixed with water when he had a Bedouin and to his left Abu Bakr. He drank, then passed the rest to the Bedouin, saying, "Start with the one on the right, then the one on the right."
3786. Sahl Ibn Sa'd As-Sâ'idî (may God be pleased with him) said: A bowl was brought to the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) and he drank from it. To his right was a young man and to his left were older men. - "Young man, he said, will you allow me to pass the bowl to the old men?". - "By God, answered the young man, I am not ready to yield, to anyone, my part of what remains of you". So the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) passed the bowl to him in his hand. Recommendation to lick the fingers and the dish, to pick up a falling bite, to eat it while wiping it and reluctance to wipe the hand before licking it
3787. According to Ibn Abbas (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When one of you has eaten, do not wipe his hands before to have licked them or had someone else lick them". What a host must do when accompanied by an uninvited third person and recommendation to the host to receive this third person
3797. Abu Mas'ud Al-Ansari (may God be pleased with him) said: A man of the 'Ansar, known as Abu Chu'ayb, had a servant who worked as a butcher. One day, this man met the Prophet (peace be upon him) and saw from his face that he was hungry. He immediately went to find his servant and said to him: "Prepare us a meal for five people, because I intend to invite the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him) who will be the fifth of the five". He invited the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who was the fifth guest. A man having followed them, the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "This man has followed us although he was not invited. If you want, allow him to enter with us; if not, that 'He's leaving us? - "Let him enter, O Messenger of God", replied Abu Chu'ayb. In case of the undoubted consent of the host, it is permissible for a guest to bring someone with him to the meal. Recommendation to eat in a group
3800. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: While the Ditch was being dug, I noticed that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was suffering greatly from hunger. I immediately went to my wife and said: "Have you anything to eat? I have just noticed that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was very hungry". She took out a bag containing a sâ' (8 handfuls) of barley; and, as we had a little sheep brought up at home, I slit her throat while she was busy grinding barley. She finished her task at the same time as mine, so I cut up the mutton and put it in the pot; then as I went to return to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him), my wife said to me: "Above all, do not embarrass me in front of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) and those whom he will bring with him (i.e. does not invite a large number of people with him so that the food will be enough for them)". Arriving near him, I took him aside and said to him: "O Messenger of God, we have slaughtered a little sheep that we had and have prepared flour with a sâ' of barley that we had, come and bring some (three to ten) people with you". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then exclaimed: "Hey! People of the Ditch, Jabir has prepared a banquet for you, come and hurry up". Then, speaking to me: "Do not remove, he said to me, your pot from the fire and do not knead your dough before I have arrived". I returned home and the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) arrived there, ahead of the crowd. - "What have you done?" exclaimed my wife when she saw this crowd. - "I did what you told me to do", I replied. Then she brought the paste to the Prophet who spat on it; he then blessed the dough and going to the pot he also spat in it; then, having blessed it, he said to my wife: "Call a baker to make the bread with you and take some broth from the pot without removing it from the fire". "There were a thousand guests there and, I swear by God, they ate their fill and left, leaving more provisions; while our pot was still boiling, its contents having not diminished and the dough with which we made the bread - as Ad-Dahhâk said - had not diminished in volume".
3801. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), Abu Talha said to 'Umm Sulaym: "I have just heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) speaking in a weakened voice , I see that he is hungry. Do you have something (to eat) in front of you? - "Yes", she answered. And then she brought out some barley loaves; wrapped them in one of her veils, then tucked it all under my tunic and secured it to my arm with the rest of her veil. She then sent me to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). I left with these breads and found the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) in the mosque, surrounded by the faithful. As I remained standing in front of the audience, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) asked me if it was really Abu Talha who sent me. - "Yes", I resumed. - "For a meal?" he added. - "Yes", I resumed. Then, addressing those who were with him, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Let's go". He immediately set off and I preceded him. Arriving at Abou Talha's, I told him what was happening. - "O 'Umm Sulaym, said Abu Talha, here is the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who is coming with people and we have nothing to feed them". - "God and His Messenger know better than anyone (what must happen)", she replied. Abou Talha went to meet the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). Then the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), accompanied by his host, arrived and said: "Come, 'Umm Sulaym, bring us what you have". She served these same loaves (which she had already intended for him) and the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered them to be crumbled. Then 'Umm Sulaym squeezed out a skin of fat and seasoned the crumbs. After pronouncing on this dish the words that God wanted him to say, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) added: "Bring in ten of my companions". The invitation was made; these ten people ate so that they were sated and then went out. - "Bring in ten more", he resumed. The invitation was made; these ten others ate, were satisfied and left. - "Let ten more come in", he added. The invitation was made; they ate, were satisfied and went out. Finally, everyone ate and was satisfied. There were seventy people - or according to a variant - eighty. It is allowed to take the sauce, to eat the calabashes. Altruism between the guests is recommended if the host does not find it repulsive
3803. According to 'Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), a dressmaker invited the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to eat a dish he had prepared. I went with the Prophet (peace be upon him), continued Anas, and the tailor presented the Prophet with barley bread and a soup in which there were gourds and dried meat. I saw the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) looking for the pieces of squash all around the dish. Eating cucumber with fresh, ripe dates
3806. 'Abdullâh Ibn Ja'far (may God be pleased with him) said: "I saw the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) eating fresh dates with cucumber". Recommendation to keep a modest pace while having a meal
3807. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), I saw the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) eating dates, while sitting with his legs extended. Forbidden to the one who eats in a group to make mouthfuls of two dates (or other) unless permission is taken (either from the neighbors at the table or from the host)
3809. Narrated Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) Jabala Ibn Suhaym said: Ibn Az-Zubayr gave us dates during the famine we had. As we were eating, Ibn 'Umar passed by us and said, "Do not eat two dates at the same time, for the Prophet (peace be upon him) forbids it, unless permission is taken (either table neighbours, or the host)". Merit of Medina dates
3813. According to Sa'd (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever eats, every morning, seven dates from his two plains (covered with stones black), will not be afflicted with any poison until the evening". The truffle is a remedy for the eyes
3816. According to Sa'îd Ibn Zayd Ibn 'Amr Ibn Nufayl (may God be pleased with him): I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "The kam'a (one of the names of the white truffle) is a kind of manna (miraculous food sent to the children of Israel in the desert, in the sense that it comes without being cultivated); its juice is a remedy for the eyes". Superiority of black "arak"
3822. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: We were with the Prophet in Marr Az-Zahrân gathering Kabâts (ripe fruits of arak). - "Choose the blacks, cried the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him), they are the best". - "O Messenger of God, then, they say to him, it seems that you have kept the sheep". - "Yes, he answered us, is there a Prophet who did not keep them?". Giving hospitality to the guest
3829. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), a man came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "I am very hungry". The Prophet sent (ask) one of his wives for something to eat, she replied: "By Him who sent you by the Truth, we have absolutely nothing except water". As he sent (ask) to another, he always received the same answer: "I have only water". He received this same answer from all his wives. Then, the Prophet addressed himself to the faithful: "Whoever will grant hospitality to this man this night, God will have mercy on him". A man of the 'Ansar then stood up and said: "I, Messenger of God". Then he took the man to his house and said to his wife, "Have you anything to eat?" She replied, "We have nothing but our children's supper." He then said to him: "Obtain them by some means, and when our host comes in, turn off the light and make him believe that we are eating and when he begins to eat turn off the lamp". This man of the 'Ansar sat down with his wife and the host took his meal. The next morning, when the man of 'Ansar went to the Prophet (peace be upon him), the latter said to him: "God admired the way you treated your guest this night".
3832. According to 'Abdourrahmân Ibn 'Abi Bakr (may God be pleased with him), We were one hundred and thirty people with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he said to us: "Is there anyone one of you who has food?". Now it happened that a man had a sâ' (a measure of 8 handfuls of medium size) or almost an equivalent quantity of flour which was kneaded. At this moment there came a polytheist, tall in stature and with disheveled hair; he drove a herd of sheep. - "To sell or to give as a gift - or according to a variant to make a donation?", asked the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him). - "No, for sale", replied the man. The Prophet bought from him a sheep which was prepared; then the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered the liver to be roasted. The reporter continued: "I swear by God, there was not a single one of these hundred and thirty men to whom the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) did not offer a piece of this roasted liver We served a piece to each of those who were present and we put in reserve the share of those absent. loaded onto the camel. Such was the story (or something like it)".
3833. According to 'Abdurrahmân Ibn 'Abi Bakr (may God be pleased with both), (Those who were called) the people of the Suffa were poor people and the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him ) once said, "Whoever has food for two, bring a third; and whoever has food for four, bring a fifth or sixth or something like that." Abu Bakr then took three people while the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) took ten guests. The three that Abou Bakr took away were, says 'Abdourrahmân, me, my father and my mother, - I do not know, added the reporter, if he did not add: "My wife and my servant who did the of our house and that of Abu Bakr" - Abu Bakr dined with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then stayed (in a corner of the mosque) until he made the prayer of 'isha (evening); then he returned (to his place of retirement in the mosque) until the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was asleep. Then he returned home after such part of the night as God willed. - "What kept you away from your hosts? - or according to a variant - from your host", asked his wife. "Did you not serve them supper?" replied Abu Bakr. - "They refused to eat before you were back", she resumed. - "We served them the food in vain; they resisted". As I went into hiding, adds 'Abdourrahmân, Abu Bakr said to me: "Scoundrel!" And he threatened me and insulted me. Then (addressing the guests) he said to them: "Eat though the meal is not good (now). As for me, I will never eat it (thinking that there was not enough for the guests and for the family, Abu Bakr insults his son for the lack of hospitality to guests, and swears not to eat)". So, I swear to God, we hadn't taken a bite of food, that more came out from under it, and when everyone was full, the dish was fuller than before. Seeing that there remained as many, if not more, Abou Bakr said to his wife: "O sister of the Banû Firâs!, what is happening then?". - "I do not know, she replied, I swear by (He who created) the coolness of my eye! But there are now three times as many dishes as there were before". Abou Bakr, then tasting this dish, said: "It is the devil alone who had pushed me to this, that is to say to swear (that I will not eat it)". After swallowing a mouthful, he took the dish to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) where he remained until morning. At this moment expired a truce which we had concluded with a tribe. We divided (their delegation) under twelve decurions from their homes (to represent their taxpayers), each of them having with him a certain number of individuals whose number God knows better than anyone. Be that as it may, the Prophet sent them some of this dish and they all ate it, says 'Abdurrahman; or as he said. Equality of food sharing. The food of two is enough for three...
3835. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A meal for two people is enough for three people and a meal for three people is enough for four people". The Believer eats in one intestine and the ungodly eats in seven.
3839. From Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), "The Prophet (peace be upon him) said: 'The infidel eats from seven intestines while the Believer eats from one intestine.'
3842. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The believer eats in one intestine and the infidel eats in seven intestines". Prohibition to refute a dish
3844. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: “Never did the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) speak ill of a dish; if he liked it, he ate it; if he didn't love him, he left him". The authentic Muslim 37 - Clothing and ornaments Prohibition of the use of utensils made of gold and silver
3846. According to Oum Salama, the wife of the Prophet ( رضي الله عنها ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who drinks from a silver vase only swallows in her belly the fire of Gehenna". Prohibition to use gold and silver utensils (for men and women), to wear gold rings or silk clothes (for men)
3848. Al-Barâ' Ibn 'Azib (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered us to do seven things and forbade us to do seven others. He enjoined us to visit the sick, to follow the funeral processions, to say: "God have mercy on you!" to him who praises God after having sneezed, to defer to the oath of people, to assist the oppressed, to accept invitations and to send greetings to everyone. He forbade us to wear gold rings, to drink from silver vases, to use silk saddles, to wear so-called "qassy" fabrics (a striped variety of silk), to wear silk , brocade and satin.
3849. According to Houdhayfa (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had said: "Do not drink from gold or silver vessels. brocade, nor silk. These things are for the infidels in this world; whereas you will have them in the hereafter, on the Day of Resurrection".
3851. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb having seen a silk suit near the door of the mosque, said: "O Messenger of God, you could buy this tunic to put it on on Friday and also to receive the deputations that come to find you". - "Only those who have no part in the other world wear suits of this kind", replied the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). Subsequently, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having received a number of similar tunics, presented one to - "How! O Messenger of God, say you give me this to clothe after what you told me about the suit of - "I do not give it to you to wear it", replied the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). idolatrous brother he had in Mecca.
3862. According to (may God be pleased with him), The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) was presented with a silk tunic which he sent to me. When I put it on, I saw the anger on his face and he said to me: "I did not send it to you to wear it, but to cut it into veils and distribute them to women".
3865. According to Anas Ibn Malik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sent to a satin coat, said to him: "You sent me this coat and you warned us not to wear such a garment?". He replied: "I did not send it to you to wear it, but to sell it and use it for you".
3866. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who wore silk in the here below will not wear it in the 'beyond".
3868. According to 'Uqba Ibn 'Amir (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was presented with a silk "farrûj" (a kind of tunic split in back). He carried it and said the prayer. When the prayer was over, he abruptly took it off as if repugnant to it, saying, "This does not befit men who fear God." Permission granted to men to wear silk garments in certain cases
3869. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) tolerated Abdourrahmân Ibn 'Awf and Az-Zubayr Ibn Al-'Awâm wearing shirt of silk when traveling, because of an itching that devoured them or itching they felt. The merit of wearing the hibra (Yemeni shawl of green color)
3877. According to Qutâda, as we asked Anas what was the most favorite garment of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him), or the most admired of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he answered us: "It is the hibara (ornate clothes made of linen or cotton)". Modesty of clothes, wearing clothes made of thick fabric, hair, and those containing designs
3879. Abou Burda said: "I visited 'Aïcha who showed us an izâr in thick fabric (loincloth), as they make in Yemen and a kesa' (coat) of this fabric which is called "felted" , swearing by God that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) returned his soul to God wearing these two garments".
3882. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: "The cushion on which the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was leaning was made of leather stuffed with vegetable fibers." It is allowed to have "'anmât" (high wool carpets)
3884. Jâbir (may God be pleased with him) said: When I got married, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to me: "Do you have "'anmât" (carpets of high wool)?". - "And where would we get carpets of high wool?", I answered. - "Well! he resumed, you will have them". Prohibition of dragging the tail of the garment out of ostentation and precision of the limit of its length
3887. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "God will not look at him who leaves his clothes lying around in ostentation".
3893. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him): He saw a man who dragged his izâr and struck the ground with his feet while walking (to be noticed). This man was the Prince of Bahrain. Someone was saying, "There's the prince! There's the prince!" The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "God will not look at the one who leaves his clothes lying around ostentatiously". Prohibition of strutting around wearing nice clothes
3894. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "While a man was walking, strutting about by his long hair which he had dropped on his shoulders and by his sumptuous dress, he was engulfed by the earth where he will not cease to struggle until the Day of Resurrection". Prohibition of men wearing a gold ring and repeal of what was permitted in the early Islamic era
3896. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade the wearing of gold rings.
3898. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had a gold ring made for himself, the bezel of which he placed on the side of the palm of his hand every time he put it on. The faithful who also had gold rings made. The Prophet went up to the pulpit, tore off his ring and said: "I had this ring made, of which I placed the bezel on the side of the palm of my hand". He threw it away and said, "By God! I won't wear it anymore." The faithful did the same with theirs. The silver ring worn by the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) where it is engraved: "Muhammad is the Messenger of God" and that the caliphs wore after his death
3901. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had a silver ring made for himself (like a seal) by engraving these words: "Muhammad is Messenger of God" and he said to the people: I made myself a silver ring by engraving these words: "Muhammad is the Messenger of God". Let no one have this same inscription engraved. Ring removal
3905. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) reports that he saw for a single day a silver ring on the finger of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). Devotees also had silver rings made and wore them; then, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having ceased to wear his ring, the faithful did the same. It is recommended to put on shoes starting with the right foot and take off shoes starting with the left foot and it is blameworthy to walk with only one shoe
3913. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When one of you puts on his shoes, let him start with the right foot , and when he takes off his shoes, he begins with the left foot and has both bare feet or both feet shod". It is allowed to lie on the back by putting one foot on the other
3921. 'Abdullâh Ibn Zayd (may God be pleased with him) reports that he saw the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) lying in the mosque, putting one of his legs on the other. Man forbidden to dye his hair yellow
3922. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade (men) the use of saffron (a aromatic and coloring plant, considered as a luxury item proper Women's). Difference with the Jews in dyeing
3926. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Jews and Christians do not dye (their hair); do the opposite". Prohibition of drawing animals, the use of articles containing drawings other than carpets: Angels do not enter a house where there is a figurative representation and a dog
3929. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Angels do not enter a house where there is a dog or a figurative representation".
3934. From 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her): We had a curtain on which were drawn portraits of birds. When someone visits us, he finds it in front of him. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to me: "Dismiss this. Each time I return, I see it in front of me and I think of the goods of this lower world". She added: "We also had a velvet cloth on which there were silk figures, which we wore".
3942. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Those who make representations will be punished on the Day of Resurrection; they will be told : Bring your creations to life".
3943. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "On the Day of Resurrection, people who will experience from of God the most terrible punishments will be the painters (rather, makers of figures: painters, sculptors, draftsmen and others)".
3945. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) say: "Every maker of figurative representations will be tortured in Hell. The soul will be blown to each of the representations he had fabricated to inflict punishment on him in Hell".
3947. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: Praised and Exalted God said: "And who then is more criminal Let those who design to create beings like those I have created, let them try to create an atom, let them try to create a grain of wheat, let them try to create a grain of barley. !" It is blameworthy to attach a collar to the camel's neck
3951. Abu Bashir Al-Ansari (may God be pleased with him) reported that he was in the company of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) in one of his expeditions, when the Messenger of God ( peace and blessings of God be upon him) sent someone ('Abdullâh Ibn 'Abi Bakr, a narrator of the Hadith said: "I believe that he said: When the people were in their dwellings") to say to the men: " That a collar made of cord - or a collar - does not remain attached to the neck of a camel without it being detached". It is permitted to mark an animal - other than on its face - as part of the alms or tribute
3955. According to Anas (may God be pleased with her), When 'Umm Sulaym gave birth, she said to me: "O Anas! Look at this child, I do not give him anything to eat until you bring him to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to rub his gum." Anas continued: "I took the child and went to the Messenger of God while he was in the garden, wearing a woolen striped coat "huwaytia", marking the backs of the mounts that were brought to him on the day of the conquest (of Mecca) with an iron point". Blame of Al-qaz'
3959. According to Ibn 'Omar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) forbade Qaz' (consisting of shaving the head of a child leaving a tuft of hair on it ). Prohibition to sit on a public road and observe the rights of the way
3960. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Be careful not to sit on the public roads". "But," they answered, "we can't do otherwise; we have no other place to meet and talk." - "If, resumed the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), you refuse to sit down (elsewhere), then observe the requirements imposed by the public highway". - "And what are these requirements?", he was asked. - "They consist, he replied, in lowering the gaze, abstaining from harm, returning salvation, recommending the praiseworthy and prohibiting the blameworthy". Prohibition of false hair, tattooing, facial hair removal and teeth filing
3961. According to Asma bint 'Abi Bakr (may God be pleased with her), a woman came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God, I have just married my daughter and, as a result of measles, her hair has fallen out; can I put false hair on my daughter?". The Messenger of God answered: "God curses the women who put false hair on others and those who have it put on".
3963. According to 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her), a daughter of the 'Ansar was married. She fell ill and her hair fell out and as his people wanted to put false hair on her, they came to consult the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) about this, who cursed the one who puts false hair on another and the one who wears false hair.
3965. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has cursed the one who puts false hair (on other women) and the one who wears it, the one who tattoos and the one who gets tattooed.
3966. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: "God has cursed the women who tattoo and those who are tattooed, the women who wax (to other women) the face or the eyebrows and those who pluck their face or eyebrows, those who file their teeth to make themselves more beautiful by distorting the work of God". A woman from the Banû 'Asad, nicknamed 'Umm Y'aqûb, who recited the Koran, having heard of this, came to 'Abdullâh and said to him: "I was told that you had cursed those who tattoo, those who make tattoos, those who pluck (to other women) the face or the eyebrows and those who pluck the face or the eyebrows and those who file their teeth out of coquetry because they change the Creation of God". He answered him: "Why should I not curse those whom the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) himself has cursed, according to the Book of God?". - "I have read," she replied, "all that is between the two plates of the Mushaf (i.e., the Koran whose leaves were bound with the help of two plates which formed a sort of binding) and I didn't find any of what you say". - "If you had really read it, you would have found it there, resumed 'Abdullâh. God - to Him the power and the glory - said: Take what the Messenger gives you; and what he forbids you, abstain from it;... The woman retorted: “However, I see one thing of that on your wife.” He then said to her: “Well! Go and see". The woman went to 'Abdullâh's wife and as she found nothing of what she supposed, she came back to tell him: "I did not find anything". He replied: "If she practiced that, we would no longer find in the same house".
3968. Humayd Ibn Abdourrahmân Ibn 'Awf reports that he heard Mu'âwiya Ibn Abî Sufyan, during the year of his Hajj, say in the pulpit, taking a lock of hair from the hands of a guard (who was doing the police of the city): "O people of Medina! Where are your scholars? I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) forbid such a thing and add: The Israelites were lost when their wives used false hair". Ban on wearing fake clothes and bragging about what you don't have
3973. According to Asma (may God be pleased with her), a woman came to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and said to him: "I have a co-wife. Would I commit a fault if I took more of my husband's goods, more than he gives me?". - "He who takes more of what he has not been given, replied the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), is like the one who wears a double costume of imposture". The authentic Muslim 38 - Education Prohibition of wearing a nickname Abu Al-Qasim and choice of beautiful names
3974. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), a man having called another to "Al-Baqî'" by saying: "O Abu Al-Qâsim", the Messenger of God turned towards the man who said to him: "O Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) it is not you that I wanted to designate, but so and so". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said: "Wear my name (Muhammad), but never my nickname".
3976. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: A son was born to a man among us and he wanted to give him the name of "Muhammad". His people therefore said to him: "We will not let you give the name of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to your son". The man carried his child on his shoulders and came to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and said: "O Messenger of God, a son was born to me, I named him "Muhammad", my people then said to me: "You will not be allowed to give the name of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) to your son. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) said then: "Wear my name (Muhammad), but never my nickname (Abou Al-Qâsim). For I have been sent as a divider charged with dividing among you (the meaning of the nickname exclusive to the Prophet)'.
3981. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), Abu Al-Qâsim (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Carry my name, but do not use my nickname". Recommendation to replace bad names with better ones, such as: Barra by Zaynab or Juwayriya
3990. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), Zaynab was called "Barra" (ie, model of filial piety); as it was said of her that she took pride in it, the Messenger of God gave her the name of "Zaynab". Prohibition of giving as a name "the king of kings"
3993. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: The most ignoble name in the sight of God is: that of the man who is called " king of kings", (Ibn Abu Shayba reported this hadith adding:) because there is no King but God to Him the power and the glory. Recommendation to feed the newborn the juice of a date well chewed by a virtuous man, to give him a name from birth such as 'Abdullâh, 'Ibrâhîm and other names of the Prophets
3997. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: “A child was born to me. throat with a date".
3998. According to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), Asma bint 'Abi Bakr who at the time was pregnant with 'Abdullâh Ibn Az-Zubayr left Mecca at the time when her pregnancy ended and went to Medina. Arrived at Quba', she gave birth there; then she brought the child to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) to rub her throat. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) took it, placed it on his knees and asked for a date. 'Aisha continued: "Some time passed before we found it. So he chewed it and threw saliva into the child's mouth, so that the first thing that entered his belly was the saliva of the child. Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". Asma then reported: “After that he rubbed it, made an invocation for it and named it 'Abdullâh. 'The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), under the command of Az-Zubayr (his father) The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) smiled, seeing him coming to him, then accepted his oath of allegiance".
4000. 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her) said: "The newborn babies were brought to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) to bless them and rub their insides of the mouth with a chewed date".
4002. Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him) said: At the time of his birth, Al-Mundhir Ibn Abu 'Usayd was brought to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). The Prophet (peace be upon him) took the child on his knee while Abu 'Usayd was seated. As the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was preoccupied with something he had before him, Abu 'Usayd ordered the child to be taken from the lap of the Messenger (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ); then he was ordered to leave. When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) finished his concern, he asked where the child was. Abu 'Usayd replied: "O Messenger of God, we have put him back in his usual place". "What name was given to him?" asked the Prophet. - "So and so, O Messenger of God!", he replied. - "No, his name must be Al-Mundhir ("he who warns", i.e. he who undertakes to do good in fear of eternal punishment and not in the hope of future bliss )", continued the Prophet. Since that day, the child was named Al-Mundhir. Permission to say to another than his child: O my son and to be kind to children
4005. Al-Mughîra Ibn Chu'ba (may God be pleased with him) said: No one asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) questions about the Antichrist more than me . One day he said to me: "O son! What do you fear from him? He will do you no harm!". I said to him: "It is said that he will bring with him streams and mountains of bread". He replied, "He will be more insignificant than that in the eyes of God." Requesting permission to enter someone's home
4006. According to Abou Sa'îd Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him): I was in Medina in a circle of 'Ansâr, when Abou Mûsa, distraught - or terrified - came to find us. We then asked him: "What do you have?". He replied: "'Umar ordered me to visit him. When I was in front of the door of his dwelling, I said three times: (Peace be upon you), without receiving any answer. So I returned to my steps". Later, he ('Umar) asked me: "What prevented you from coming to me?". I replied: "I came to find you and I repeated three times: (Peace be upon you); but I received no answer. I therefore retraced my steps; for the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) says: "When one of you has asked three times for permission to enter and no one has answered him, he must go".
4010. Abu Musa went to 'Omar Ibn Al-Khattâb and exclaimed: "Peace be upon you. It is I 'Abdullâh Ibn Qays". 'Umar did not allow him to enter. Abu Musa said again: “Peace be upon you! It is I Abu Musa. Peace be upon you! 'Umar then said (to his companions): "Bring him back". When he returned, 'Umar said to him, "Why did you return? I was troubled." Abu Musa replied: "I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) say: When one of you asked three times for permission to enter and he was not answered , he has to go." It is blameworthy to answer: "It is I", when one asks: "Who is there?"
4011. According to Jabîr Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), I went to find the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). I knocked on the door and when the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) asked me: "Who is there?". I answered: "Me". The Prophet then came out repeating, "Me, me," (as if displeased him). No peeking into someone else's house
4013. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd As-Sa'idî (may God be pleased with him), a man looked (in secret) through a slot which was in the door of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him), at the moment when the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) was rubbing his head with a stick (in the form of a wooden comb). When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) saw him, he said to him: "If I knew you were looking at me, I would have stuck this stick in your eye". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) added: "The authorization was only imposed in order to no longer look (unexpectedly in the house of others)".
4015. According to Anas Ibn Malik (may God be pleased with him), a man was looking at the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) through a hole, when the latter stood up holding one or more spearheads. I still seem to see the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) trying to pierce this man with this spearhead.
4016. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "If someone, without your permission, looks in your house, you you will not have committed any fault, if you put out his eye". The authentic Muslim 39 - Salute The horseman owes the salute to the pedestrian and the small group to the largest group
4019. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The horseman owes salvation to the pedestrian, the pedestrian owes it to the one who sits and the small group owes it to the larger group". A Muslim owes salvation to another Muslim
4022. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: A Muslim has five duties to perform with regard to his co-religionist: to give him hello, say to him: "God have mercy on you" when he sneezes, accept his invitation, visit him when he falls ill and follow his funeral procession. Forbidden to greet the people of the Book first and how to return the greeting
4024. According to Anas Ibn Malik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When the People of the Book (Christians and Jews) greet you (saying: Peace be upon you), answer: And upon you too".
4026. Narrated Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: When the Jews greet you, they say: "Death be upon you!", so answer them: "And on you too".
4027. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: A group of Jews having entered the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "Death be upon you!" (In the Arabic greeting we use the word salâm which means "peace". The Jews had used the word "saâm" meaning "death" whose assonance is almost identical). 'Aisha, who had understood these words, replied: "May death and curse be upon you rather!". Then the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "O 'Aisha, God prefers gentleness in all things". - "But, O Messenger of God, said 'Aisha, did you not hear what they had said?". - "I simply answered them: "And on you!", replied the Messenger of God. Recommendation to greet the young people
4031. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having passed through a group of young people, addressed their greetings. Permission for women to go out to satisfy a natural need
4034. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her): Sawda went out, after the prescription of the veil, to satisfy a natural need. However, she was a corpulent woman, of a height exceeding that of all the other women and therefore no one could see her without discovering her personality. 'Omar Ibn Al-Khattâb having seen it, exclaimed: "O Sawda, by God, you are known (despite the veil). So be careful when you go out". She therefore retraced her steps, finding the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who was at my house, having dinner and having a piece of lamb in his hands. She entered and said, “O Messenger of God! I have come out and 'Umar said such and such to me”. She ('Aisha) added: "Immediately, he received the revelation (from sura Al-'Ahzâb, verse 59), then returned to his calmness - during this moment, the piece of lamb was still in his hand - and said: God has allowed you to go out to satisfy your natural need." Prohibition of being one-on-one with a stranger or entering her home
4037. According to 'Uqba Ibn 'Amir (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Be careful not to enter among women". A man of the 'Ansar then questioned the Prophet in these terms: "O Messenger of God and what do you think of the relatives of the husband (other his parents and his sons)?" - "The relatives of the husband, other his parents and his sons, he replied, it is death". Recommendation to the one who is seen in the company of a woman, whether she is his wife or that she is forbidden to him in marriage, to say: "It is such" in order to avoid all suspicion
4041. Safiyya bint Huyayy (may God be pleased with her) said: I visited one night the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) while he was on spiritual retreat in the mosque. After speaking with him, I rose to retire; the Prophet also got up to escort me (Safiyya lived in the house of Usâma Ibn Zayd). Two men from the 'Ansar came to pass, who seeing the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), hurried on. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said to them: "Gently! It is Safiyya bint Huyayy". "O Messenger of God! they cried, God forbid (that we have any evil thoughts)!". - "Certainly, said the Prophet, the devil infiltrates man as blood infiltrates; and I feared that he would throw into your hearts some bad thoughts - or something". The one who goes to an assembly that he sits in the empty place and if he does not find that he sits back
4042. According to Abu Waqid Al-Laythi (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was sitting in the mosque in the company of the faithful, when three men arrived. Two of them went towards the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and the third turned back. After having contemplated the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), one of these two men found a free place in the circle and sat down while the second sat behind. As for the third, he went away. When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) had finished (his exhortation or teaching), he said: "I want to speak to you about these three men. Well the first one sought refuge with God and God granted it to him. The second was ashamed to approach God and God treated him like this. While the third turned away from God, and God turned away from him." Prohibition to lift a man from his place to sit down
4043. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Let none of you raise a man to sit in his place". Forbid the effeminate to enter foreign women
4048. According to Oum Salama (may God be pleased with her), an effeminate was at her house while the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was at home. The effeminate addressed the brother of Oum Salama saying: "O 'Abdoullâh Ibn 'Abi 'Umayya! If tomorrow God grants you the conquest of Taif, I will show you Bint Ghaylan, who when she advances shows four and eight when she walks away". (these are the four folds of the belly that she shows as she moves forward and by "and eight when she moves away" we must understand the ends of these four folds which embrace the two sides of the body to the point of joining ). The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having heard him, said: "Let such people not enter your house any more". Permission for a foreign woman to ride behind a man when she is tired
4050. According to Asma bint 'Abi Bakr (may God be pleased with her), "Az-Zubayr had married me, when he had on earth neither property, nor money, nor slave, nor anything else to except for his horse. I gave his horse fodder, provided him with feed and took care of him. Besides, I ground his nâdih (pumping and watering camel) grain to feed him, I drew water and mended his skins. I also kneaded the flour, but as I was not skilled in preparing bread, neighbors, women of the 'Ansar, good friends, made me the bread. I carried on my head harvests which came from a land which the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) had granted to Az-zubayr and this land was distant from my dwelling two thirds of a parasange. crops on my head, I met the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) accompanied by a number of his companions . The Prophet called me, then made his horse kneel down to take me behind. I felt some shame in traveling with men and I thought of your jealousy (of Az-zubayr)". But, Az-zubayr, answered him: "By God, it would have been less painful for me to see you on the back him, than to carry this burden on your head". "I continued to lead this existence, added Asma, until the day when Abu Bakr (his father), after this adventure, sent me a servant who relieved me of the care of give to the horse and it seemed to me then that I had just been freed". Prohibition of talking to two in the presence of a third person without his consent
4052. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "If you are three people, let two of you not talk alone apart without the third".
4053. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If you are three people, let two of you not do not talk alone apart without the third until there are other people who come to join you, because it could cause him pain". Medicine, disease and exorcism
4057. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The evil eye is a reality". Magic
4059. According to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), A Jew of the Zûrayq tribe, named Labîd Ibn Al-'A'sam, bewitched the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), to the point that he (peace and blessings be upon him) seemed to him to do things which he did not do. However, on a certain day - or a certain night - that he was at my house, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) invoked God several times, then he said to me: "O 'Aïcha! Do you know that God inspired me with the decision I had asked Him to make? Two men came to me; one sat down at my bedside, the other at my feet. The one who sat down by my head said to him who sat at my feet, - or he who sat at my feet said to him who sat at my head, "What is this man suffering from?" He answered him, "He is bewitched". - "Who bewitched him?" - "Labîd Ibn Al-'A'sam". - "And on what?" - "On a comb and some hairs, which is in the envelope of a male palm spathe". - "Where are these objects?" - "In the Bi'r Thi 'Arwân". 'Aisha continued: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), accompanied by a group of his companions, went towards this well". On his return, he told 'Aisha: "O 'Aisha! By God! it looks like its water is an infusion of henna and its palm trees have the heads of demons". I said to him: "O Messenger of God! Did you burn them?" He said, "No. Since God had healed me, I was loath to cause adversity between people by it and I ordered that these things be buried." Poison
4060. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), a Jewess had offered a poisoned sheep to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who ate it. This Jewess was brought to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who asked her why she had done this, she replied: "To kill you". He replied, "God wouldn't have given you that power for that," or "over me." The men said to the Prophet: "We will kill her?". - "No", he answered. Anas added: "These traces of the poisoning, I still seem to see them on the uvula of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". (The Prophet's disease was then characterized by an alteration of the uvula) Recommendation to exorcise the patient
4061. According to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), When one of us experiences any pain, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) passed his right hand (on the body patient) and invoked God with these words: "Dispel the evil, O Lord of men, heal it for You are the Healer: there is no other healing than that which You operate, it is the healing which leave not the slightest disease". When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) fell ill, I took his hand to pass it over his body, as he did to the (sick) faithful. He withdrew his hand from mine, then said, "Lord, forgive me and let me be with the Supreme Companion. After a while, I was going to find him dead." Exorcism by the two suras of exorcism and the breath
4065. According to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), When someone from her family fell ill, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) gave him breaths while reciting the suras of the search for divine protection (namely No. 113, 114 of the Koran). 'Aisha continued: "During the illness to which he succumbed, I myself gave him breaths, passing my hand over his body so that he could experience the effect of his own blessing". Exorcism against evil eye, boil and poisonous animal or insect
4067. According to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) authorized a family of 'Ansar to use exorcism against all poisonous animals .
4069. According to 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her), When someone fell ill from any ailment, or suffered from a tumor or wound, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him) does like this with his finger (and Sufyan touched the earth with his index finger and then raised it) and said: "In the name of God, the earth of our country, with the saliva of one of us heal our sick with the permission of the Lord".
4070. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) enjoined him to exorcise himself against the evil eye".
4074. According to Um Salama (may God be pleased with her), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him), having seen at Um Salama, wife of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him) a young girl with a black spot on her face exclaimed: "Let us treat her with an exorcism, she has just been attacked by the evil eye". It is permissible to receive a salary for exorcism by recitation of the Quran and invocations
4080. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), a group of companions of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) were traveling. Arrived in an Arab tribe, they asked for hospitality which was refused to them. Then they said to them, "Do any of you know how to exorcise? For the chief of this tribe has been stung, or he is wounded." One of the companions answered: "Yes, I can exorcise it". This man went to see the chief and then recited the first surah of the Koran "Mother of the Book (Al-Fâtiha)" The patient recovered and gave the man a herd of sheep as recompense. But the companion said that they would not touch it before consulting the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). He came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and told him what had happened: "O Messenger of God! By God, I only recite the Fatiha on the sick person". The Prophet smiled and answered: "Who told you that it is an exorcism?", then he said to him: "Take the sheep and reserve a part for me". (The request to participate in the sharing was only to encourage their fervor for the Quran and to show his contentment at having demonstrated the greatness of the Book of God in the eyes of the people). For every disease there is a cure and it is recommended to treat yourself
4085. According to 'Asim Ibn 'Umar Ibn Qutâda, Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh went to see Al-Muqanna' who was sick and said to him: "I will not leave you, before you have bloodletting applied to you, because I have heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) say that this is a remedy".
4093. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "The fever comes from an emanation from Gehenna; calm the ardor with water".
4098. According to Asma bint 'Abi Bakr (may God be pleased with her), whenever a woman with a fever came to her, Asma poured water into the openings of the shirt (the col) of this woman saying: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) enjoins us to cool the sick person with water, saying that the fever comes from an emanation from Hell" .
4099. According to Râfi ' Ibn Khadîj (may God be pleased with him), he heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "The fever is an effect of the boiling of Hell; calm down -in therefore the ardor with water". It is blameworthy to introduce the remedy by the corner of the mouth
4101. According to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) fell ill and as we gave him the remedy by the corner of his mouth, he asked us not to do it anymore. We said to ourselves: "Perhaps because of the patient's natural aversion to the remedy." When he regained consciousness, he said to us: "None of you will fail to receive the remedy by the corner of your mouth except Al-'Abbas, because he did not witness what you had done". Treatment with black grain (nigella)
4104. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), He heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "In the black grain there is a remedy for all diseases, except the sâm. The sâm is death and the black seed is the nigella". The talbina is necessary for the convalescence of the patient
4106. According to 'A'isha, the wife of the Prophet (may God be pleased with her), when she lost a member of her family, the women assembled near the deceased; then, when they withdrew and only her family and close friends remained, 'Aisha ordered them to bring a pot of talbina to be cooked. We then made tharid on which we poured the talbina. - "Eat it, said 'Aisha to them, because I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) declare that the talbîna relieved the heart of the patient and partly dispelled the sorrow". Honey
4107. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), a man came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "My brother suffers from colic". - "Make him drink honey", answered the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him). The man came back after a while and said, "I made him drink honey, but it only made his diarrhea worse." The Messenger of God ordered him three times to give him honey. On the fourth, the Prophet ordered him to make him drink honey. But as the man always answered: "I gave him some but that only worsened his diarrhoea", the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said to him: "What God has said is true, it's your brother's belly that's lying". The sick man was given more honey and he was cured. Plague, ornithomancy, divination and others
4108. According to Osama Ibn Zayd (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The plague is a punishment that God sent against the Israelites - or following a variant- against those who preceded you. If you hear that it exists in a country, do not go there. But if it takes place in the country where you are, do not leave it to flee it".
4114. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb, going to Syria (Ach-Shâm), found, on arriving at Sargh, the generals commanding troops in the regions of the Syria, Abu 'Ubayda Ibn Al-Jarrah and his companions, who told him that the epidemic had broken out in Syria. Ibn 'Abbâs continues: 'Umar then said to them: "Bring me the oldest Muhâjirûn". They were brought in and he, after telling them that the epidemic had broken out in Syria, asked their advice. Opinions were divided: some told him: "We set off for a business and we believe that we cannot retrace our steps". - "You have with you, declared the others, the last of the companions of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him) and we consider that you should not expose them to the epidemic". - "You can go away (now), answered 'Umar, and let them go and fetch the 'Ansar for me". I summoned them and 'Umar asked their advice. They said exactly what the Muhajirun had said and their opinions were equally divided. - "You can go away (now), resumed 'Umar, and let us go and get all the old Qoraychites who emigrated during the conquest of Mecca". I made them come. There were not two opinions on this subject among them because they said: "We believe that you are retracing your steps and that you are not exposing the faithful to this epidemic". So 'Umar announced in the camp that the next morning he would be ready to go on his mount and ordered that everyone should do the same. - "Would you like to flee the destiny fixed by God?" cried Abu 'Ubayda ibn Al-Jarrah. - "If another than you, replied 'Umar, had allowed himself to say such a thing, O Abu 'Ubayda! ('Umar who did not like to upset Abu 'Ubayda was however shocked at his opinion ...). Well yes, added 'Umar, we are fleeing the destiny fixed by God but we are fleeing it for another destiny also fixed by Him. What would you do if you had camels parked in a valley whose one side was covered with grass? and the other bare? When you graze your camels in the grassy part, would you not do it according to the destiny appointed by God, and when you graze them in the bare side, would you not not also according to the destiny fixed by God?". Abdourrahmân Ibn 'Awf, who was absent on some business, arrived in the meantime and said: I am well informed about this, for I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "When you learn that the plague exists in a country do not go there; but, if it breaks out in the country where you are, do not leave this country to flee it". 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb then praised God and left. No contagion or "hama" or "safar" or rain thanks to the stars or ogre. Let a man not bring his sick camels to drink with others that are healthy
4116. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "No contagion, neither Safar, nor Hama". A Bedouin then said: "O Messenger of God, how is it that a herd of camels as valiant as gazelles in the middle of the sands, brought into contact with a single mangy camel, is entirely affected with mange?" He answered: "And who contaminated the first camel?". (In pre-Islamic times, it was believed that stomach worms could cause the death of the patient, it is the "Safar". As for the Hama, it is a mystical bird which comes out of the head of the killed man and who incites revenge). Ornithomancy, augury
4123. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There is neither contagion nor bad omen, but what pleases me is the optimism, the good word and the beneficent word".
4127. Narrated 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "If ever there is bad luck it will be (in the choice) of the house, of the woman and the horse".
4131. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If ever there is bad luck it will be (in the choice) of the woman, the horse and the house". Prohibition to associate with the soothsayers
4134. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: "O Messenger of God! The soothsayers sometimes told us true things". - "The true words announced by the diviners, replied the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), have been stolen by a genius who then shouts them in the ears of his master (the diviner); after having mixed up a hundred lies". kill the vipers
4139. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered to kill the serpent which has two stripes, because it blinds and causes abortion".
4140. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Kill the vipers; the serpent which has two stripes and the one which has no tail; for these two cause blindness and abortion".
4148. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: While we were in a cave with the Prophet (peace be upon him), he received the revelation of (surat Al-Mursalât) : "By those who are sent in bursts". And as he recited it to us and we picked it up from his own mouth in all its freshness, a viper leapt on us. - "Kill her", cried the Prophet. We rushed to kill her, but she escaped. - "She, said the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), escaped your wickedness as you escaped hers". Recommendation to kill geckos
4152. According to 'Umm Sharik (may God be pleased with her), the Prophet (peace be upon him) ordered her to kill the geckos; and according to the term of Ibn Abu Shayba, the Prophet ordered to kill the geckos.
4155. According to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) called the gecko: "the little harmful beast". Ban on killing ants
4157. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: An ant having stung one of the Prophets, he ordered the city of ants to be burned . Then God revealed to him: "For a single ant that stung you, you destroyed a whole nation that praised God!" Ban on killing cats
4160. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A woman was punished in Hell because of a cat she had locked up until her death: she had given her neither food nor drink when she locked her up and yet she had not freed her to feed on the critters of the earth".
4161. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A woman was punished because of a cat that she had locked up without him give it neither to drink nor to eat and without however releasing it to feed on the critters of the earth". Worth watering domestic animals
4162. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A man who was walking experienced a very violent thirst on the way. Finding a well, he went down there and drank. When he came out, he saw a dog sticking out its tongue and biting the damp earth as long as it was thirsty. - "This dog, said the man, feels a thirst as great as that which I 'was just now trying myself.' sins. - "O Messenger of God, then said the faithful, will we be rewarded because of the animals? - "Yes, he answered; it is a reward for (the good done to) every living being (literally: every possessor of a fresh liver).
4163. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "One day when it was very hot, a prostitute passed by a dog who, panting with thirst, circled around a well. She took off her shoes, filled her boot with water and watered the dog; for this she was forgiven". The authentic of Muslim 40 - Good words Prohibition of insulting time
4165. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "God, the Exalted, said: The son of Adam insults the vicissitudes of time; but time is Me and the day and the night are in My hands". These words: slave (male or female), lord and master
4177. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: Let none of you say: "My servant and my servant, you are all the servants of God and all your women are equally at the service of God Say rather: "My valet, my maid or my young boy or my young girl". It is blameworthy to say: "My soul is wicked"
4180. Narrated 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her) that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: Let none of you say: 'My soul has become wicked'. Let him rather say: "My soul has evil inclinations".
4181. According to Sahl Ibn Hunayf (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Let none of you say: "My soul has become wicked". Let him rather say: "My soul has evil inclinations". The Authentic of Muslim 41 - Poetry
4186. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: The truest word that an Arab poet has ever said is that of Labîd: "All is vain apart from God".
4191. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "It is better for a man if his belly is filled with pus caused by a disease rather than (his mind) being full of poetry". The authentic of Muslim 42 - Vision
4195. Abu Qatada (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Prophet (peace be upon him) say: The vision is inspired by God; but the nightmare is inspired by the devil; as well, when one of you is in the grip of some nightmare, let him spit lightly to his left three times and say: "I seek refuge with God from the horror of this dream". So he won't harm her.
4200. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: “When the Hour is near, the dreams of the Believer will almost never lie; the dreams of the most truthful among you will be the most true. Indeed, the true vision of the Muslim represents one of the forty-five parts of prophecy. The vision is divided into three categories: the good is a good announcement of the part of God, the bad one is an intimidation on the part of the devil and a vision that relates to personal memories. Whoever sees in a dream something that displeases him, must not tell anyone, but he must get up immediately and pray". The transmitter adds: "The Prophet also added: "It pleases me that we see ourselves in a dream with our feet chained and it displeases me that we see ourselves in a dream with our hands tied to the neck, because the fact to see oneself with one's feet chained means firmness in religion". I no longer know if these words are part of the hadith, or if they are the words of Ibn Sîrîn.
4201. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The vision of the Believer is one of the forty-six gifts of prophecy". The words of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "He who sees me in a dream truly sees me"
4206. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever sees me in a dream truly sees me, for the devil never shows himself in my face. ".
4208. According to Abu Qatâda (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who sees me (in a dream) sees the reality". Interpretation of the dream
4214. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), a man came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "This night I saw in a dream a cloud which dropped drops of butter and honey and the crowd was rushing to collect them in their palms, some taking a little, others a lot, when suddenly a rope linked the sky to the earth and I saw you seize this rope and lift you up in the air. Then came another man who grabbed the rope and lifted himself also, then there came another who did the same, then a third came and grabbed the rope which broke and then joined again so that to allow it to rise as well". - "O Messenger of God, you, for whom I would sacrifice the life of my father, then said Abu Bakr, in the name of God, let me give the interpretation of this dream". - "Interpret it", replied the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "The cloud, continued Abou Bakr, is Islam; the honey and butter that fell from it is the Koran with its beauty and its sweetness; it is the Koran of which some read a lot and others little. As for the rope linking heaven to earth, it is the Truth that you have brought us and it is by attaching you to it that God has raised you up. After you, a man will come who will take hold of this rope ( of the Truth) and which, thanks to it, will rise. Another man will then come and will do the same. Finally, a man will come who will take hold of the rope which will break and then join together and the man will rise. O Messenger of God! You for whom I would sacrifice my father's life, tell me whether what I have said is right or wrong." - "Your interpretation, replied the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), is partly right and partly wrong". - "By God, O Messenger of God, tell me, I implore you, in what I was wrong". - "Do not adjure", answered the Prophet. The vision of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)
4217. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: I saw myself in a dream emigrating from Mecca to a country where there were palm trees. I assumed it was Al-Yamâma or Hajar but it happened to be the city of Yathrib. In this same dream, I saw myself brandishing a sword, the end of which was then broken. This pointed to the disaster that befell the Believers on the day of 'Uhud. I brandished it a second time and now it became more beautiful than before. This meant the conquest (of Mecca) which God had assured us and of the group of believers. I saw oxen again in this dream and I heard people say: "Good comes from God". Now these oxen were the Believers killed on the day of 'Uhud. And the words that I heard alluded to the gifts that God then bestowed upon us and the reward He bestowed upon us after the battle of Badr.
4218. Ibn 'Abbas ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: Musaylima, the impostor, came to Medina in the time of the Messenger of God. He began to say: "If Muhammad wants to take me as his successor, I will follow his Message". He came at the head of many of his tribe. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went towards him, accompanied by Thâbit Ibn Qays Ibn Chammâs, having in his hand a piece of palm branch. Stopping in front of Musaylima, who was surrounded by his companions, he said to him: "If you ask me for this piece of branch, I will not give it to you and I will not exceed the orders of God (by making you my successor) "And if you disobey me, God will surely destroy you. I suppose one of my dreams refers to you. And here is Thâbit, speak to him and he will answer you instead of me." Having said this, the Prophet went away. Ibn 'Abbas added: "As I wanted to know what the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was referring to when he said: I suppose one of my dreams refers to you, Abu Hurayra told me that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had said to him: "While I was asleep, I saw two gold bracelets on my arms. This business of bracelets worried me so much that one suggested to me in my dream to blow on these ornaments. Hardly had I done that they evaporated. I interpreted these two bracelets as representing two impostors who would appear after me. One of these impostors was Al-'Ansî of San'aa, the other Musaylima of Al-Yamâma".
4220. According to Samura Ibn Jundub (may God be pleased with him), When the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) finished the fajr (dawn) prayer, he turned to the faithful and said: " Did any of you have a vision yesterday?". The authentic of Muslim 43 - Merits Miracles of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)
4224. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: "One day, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) ordered water (for ablution). Then a large vase was brought to him ( containing a little water). We all did our ablutions and we were sixty to ninety men. I saw the water springing from between the fingers of the Prophet". What the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) reported as science and guidance
4232. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: comparable to abundant rain that waters the ground. Where there is fertile ground, water is absorbed and plants, herbs and shrubs grow there in large numbers. Elsewhere, there are places of low permeability that retain water. God makes them serve for men to drink, to water the animals and to cultivate.Finally there is another type of land where water falls, these are flat lands which do not retain water and where no grass grows. Likewise, there are three classes of men: those who are instructed in the religion of God and who profit by the things for which God has sent me; those who know and who teach; and those who do not deign to raise their head and who do not accept the guidance that God has commanded me to give". Compassion of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) towards his Community and his warning against what harms
4233. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: It is with me and with what God sent me for. a man who goes to a group of people and says to them: "I saw the army with my own eyes and I warn you, run away". Some listened to him; they took advantage of the night to escape without hurrying and fled. The others refused to believe him and stayed in their place. The next morning, the army arrived and wiped them out. So will be respectively the cases of those who obeyed me and followed what I brought (the precepts of Islam) and those who disobeyed me and considered the Truth that I brought to them a lie.
4234. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "My situation with regard to my Community is that of a man who has lit a fire into which the moths and other insects rushed. I hold you by your belt to get away from the fire, but it is you who rush into it". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) is the last of the Prophets
4237. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Compared to that of the Prophets (who preceded me), my situation is as follows : The Prophets look like a building, embellished and trimmed but missing a brick in one of the corners. People, coming to visit this building revolved around which; admired it and said, "If only the missing brick were in its place?". - "Now, I am this brick". (I am the last of the Prophets to be sent by God, as this brick is the last brick to be laid).
4240. According to Jabir (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Compared to that of the Prophets, my situation is as follows: they look like a building , embellished and trimmed by a man, but which lacked a brick at one of its corners. People entered the building and admired it saying, "If only the missing brick was in its place!" - "Now, I am this brick, I am the last of the Prophets". The basin of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and its aspects
4242. Jundab (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "I will go before you to the Basin".
4243. According to Sahl (may God be pleased with him), I heard the Prophet (peace be upon him) say: "I will go before you to the Pool. Whoever reaches it will drink there and whoever drinks there will not be never thirsty. People will come to me whom I will recognize and who will recognize me; but then we will be separated from each other."
4244. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr Ibn Al-'As ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "My Basin will have an extent of a month's walk; its angles will be equal, its water will be whiter than silver, its perfume more fragrant than musk, and its carafes will be like the stars of the sky. Whoever drinks from it will never be thirsty again".
4245. Asmâ' bint 'Abi Bakr ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: I will be near the Basin to see which of you will come to me. But some people will be away from me. - "Lord, I will say then, they are mine, of my Community". - "Do you know what they did after your departure?, I will be answered, by God, they have not ceased to retrace their steps (renouncing Islam)". The transmitter adds: Abu Mulayka said: “Great God, we take refuge with You from turning back and being tried in our religion”.
4248. According to 'Uqba Ibn 'Amir (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went out one day to make the funeral prayer for the martyrs of the battle of 'Uhud as one prayed on the dead. Then he went to the pulpit and said: "I will go ahead of you and be your witness (on the Day of Resurrection). By God, I see my Pool (in Paradise) from now on. I have received the keys to the treasures of the earth - or according to a variant the keys of the earth. By God, I do not fear that after (my death) you will again become polytheists; what I only fear is that you will quarrel for (possession) goods of this world".
4250. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: I will go before you to the Basin. Men of you will be brought, then dragged away from me: "Lord, I will say, these are my companions". They will answer me: "So you don't know what they did after you left".
4251. Haritha (may God be pleased with him) heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) speak of the Basin and say: "Its extent is equal to the distance which separates Medina from San'aa".
4252. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Before you (on the Day of Resurrection) there will be a Pool of an extent equal to that which separates Jarbâ' from 'Adhruh".
4257. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "I will remove men from my basin, as one removes from the herd the camel which is foreign to him ".
4258. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The extent of my Basin will be equal to the distance separating 'Ayla (Eilat ) of San'aa in Yemen. There will be ewers as numerous as the stars of the sky". The fight of "Gabriel" and "Mika'îl" next to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) on the day of 'Uhud
4264. Sa'd Ibn 'Abî Waqqâs (may God be pleased with him) said: "On the day of the battle of 'Uhud, I saw to the right and to the left of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him) two men dressed in white. I had not seen them before and did not see them again". - "They were, adds the transmitter, Gabriel and Mikâ'îl (peace be upon them both)". Courage of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and his position in front of men during the fight
4266. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was the best of men, the most generous and the most courageous. One night, a strange noise was heard in Medina, the inhabitants then went out in the direction of the noise. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), after having preceded them to the cry for help, met them on the way. He rode naked on a horse belonging to Abou Talha and wore a saber hanging from his neck; he repeated: "Don't be afraid, don't be afraid". Then he says: "We found this horse very fast - or again - yes, this horse is very fast". The transmitter adds: "This horse was known to be very slow. It is certainly miraculous that this slow horse, when ridden by the Prophet, became fast."
4268. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Prophet (peace be upon him) was the most generous of men. This generosity was fully manifested during the month of Ramadan, when Gabriel (peace be upon him) on him) came every night to teach him the Koran. And when Gabriel met him, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) was more generous than the wind sent by God (wind bringing rain)". Noble magnanimity of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)
4269. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: I served the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) for ten years, he never said "fi!" nor "why did you do such a thing?" nor "if only you did such a thing!". Generosity of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)
4274. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: Never, when he was asked something, did the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) answer even once: "No".
4278. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If I had received the tax from Bahrain, I would give you such and such and such a sum ". The Prophet each time beckoned the content with both hands. However, the Bahrain tax did not arrive until after the death of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). So he (Jabir) went to 'Abu Bakr (and told him about it). The latter ordered a herald to call: "If the Prophet owes anyone anything or any debt, let him come". I then got up and said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "If I had received the tax from Bahrain, I would give you such and such and such a sum". 'Abou Bakr picked up some money in both hands, then said to me: "Count". I counted them and found them to be five hundred. He finally said to me: "Take again double this sum". Mercy of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) towards boys and families and his modesty
4279. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said on the occasion of the birth of his child: "This night has known the birth of my son; I gave him as a first name that of my ancestor Abraham ('Ibrâhîm)". The Prophet later entrusted his son to 'Umm Sayf, nurse and wife of a blacksmith, Abu Sayf. He went to visit him one day and I went with him, said Anas. We entered Abu Sayf's house and found him blowing his instrument while the room was reeking of smoke. I rushed towards the man, thus surpassing the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "O Abu Sayf, I said to him, stop! The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has come!". Abu Sayf immediately stopped breathing. The Prophet (peace be upon him) asked to see the child; he took it, kissed it and whispered a few words to it that only God knows. And I saw 'Ibrâhîm when he breathed his last into the hands of his father, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). His eyes (peace and blessings of God be upon him) began to shed tears and he said: "The eye sheds tears and the heart is grieved; but we only say what pleases our Lord ( no contest before the divine will). O 'Ibrâhîm, by God, we are grieved to be separated from you!".
4281. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: Some Bedouins came to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and asked: "Do you kiss your children?". - "Yes" was the answer. - "But we do not kiss ours", they say. - "So, said the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), and what could I do about a mercy (feelings of kindness) that God had wrested from your hearts?".
4282. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: Al-'Aqra' Ibn Hâbis, having seen the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) kissing Al-Hasan, said: "I have ten children and I have never kissed a single one of them". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "We will not show mercy to him who does not show mercy".
4283. According to Jarir Ibn 'Abdullâh (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "God, may His almighty be exalted and His glory, will not be Compassionate towards him who is not so towards men". Modesty of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)
4284. Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was more modest than a (young) virgin in her boudoir. , you can read it on his face. Mercy of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) towards women and his command to him who leads their mounts to be benevolent towards them
4287. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: During one of his journeys, the Prophet (peace be upon him) had with him a Negro servant named 'Anjacha. The latter, being in the process of pushing the camels in front of him while singing, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "O 'Anjacha! Take it easy! You have a load of glassware". (is that he should have driven the women's mounts more gently). Dismissal of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) from sins, his choice of all that is lawful, his revenge in view of God during a transgression at His commands
4294. 'Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (may God be pleased with her) said: "Never was the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) given to choose between two things, without he chooses the easiest, provided it was not a sin. If it was a sin, he was the most eager of men to get away from it. Never the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) avenged himself for a personal injury, unless it was an offense to the majesty of God, to Him the almightiness and the glory". Scent of the sweat of the Prophet (peace be upon him) and his blessing
4302. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), 'Umm Sulaym spread a leather carpet for the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) so that he took a nap on it when he was at her house. Now the Prophet was sweating a lot; she collected her sweat and mixed it with perfumed pastes in the pottery. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "O 'Umm Sulaym! What is this?". - "It's your sweat; I incorporate it into my perfume mixture", she replied. Sweating of the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) when it was cold and during the Revelation
4303. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: "Some days in the morning when it was very cold, I saw the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) receiving the Revelation; at the moment when it ceased , the forehead of the Prophet was streaming with sweat". Headdress of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)
4307. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The people of the Book let their hair fall (on the neck), while the polytheists made a parting. Now the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of be upon him) liked to conform to the habits of the People of the Book for everything about which he had not received divine prescriptions; first of all the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) let his hair hang loose , but later he parted". Beautiful face of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)
4308. Al-Barâ' (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Prophet (peace be upon him) was of medium height; he had broad shoulders; his hair reached the lobe of his ears. 've seen wearing a red cloak and never have I seen a more handsome man than the Prophet (peace be upon him)". Hair of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)
4311. Qatâda said: "I asked Anas Ibn Mâlik how was the hair of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him); and he answered me that his hair was neither smooth nor frizzy and that it reached the lopes of his ears and his shoulders". Canitie of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him)
4317. Ibn Sîrîn said: "As Anas was asked if the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) dyed his hair, he replied that he had been affected only slightly by canities".
4323. From Zuhayr, from 'Abu 'Ishâq, from 'Abu Juhayfa: "I saw the Prophet (peace be upon him); he had white in that part". Zuhayr transmitted these words by pointing his fingers at the hairs of the goatee below his lower lip. He was asked: "And how old were you then?". - "At the time, I cut the arrows and put feathers (I was quite pubescent)". Seal of the Prophet (peace be upon him)
4328. As-Sâ'ib Ibn Yazid (may God be pleased with him) said: My maternal aunt took me to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "O Messenger of God!, she said to him, here is my sister's son; he is ill". The Prophet passed his hand over my head and called upon me the blessings of Heaven. Then he did his ablutions; I drank some water left over from his ablutions and stood behind him. Between his two shoulders, I saw the seal of prophecy which resembled the partridge's egg. Appearance of the Prophet (peace be upon him), his age
4330. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was not excessively tall, nor short in stature; he was not was neither dull white nor brown; his hair was neither frizzy nor smooth. God sent him (as a Prophet) at the beginning of his fortieth year. He stayed ten years in Makkah and another ten years in Madinah. When he returned his soul to God, barely sixty years old, he did not have twenty white hairs on his head and in all his beard". Age of the Prophet (peace be upon him) at his death
4332. According to 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her), "The Prophet (peace be upon him) died at the age of sixty-three". Duration of the stay of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) in Mecca and Medina
4333. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) remained thirteen years in Mecca and died aged sixty-three". Names of the Prophet (peace be upon him)
4342. According to Jubayr Ibn Mut'im (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "I am Muhammad; I am 'Ahmad; I am Al-Mâhî : (one who dispels) by whom God erases disbelief; I am Al-Hâchir : (one who gathers) after whom men will be gathered (on the Day of Resurrection); I am Al-'Aqib (Al-'Aqib i.e. the Prophet after whom no man will be granted prophecy to him)". Knowledge of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) about God, the Most High and his reverent fear
4345. 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) did a certain act and henceforth deemed it valid (implying that God had tolerated it on him); however, a number of his companions reluctantly refrained from doing so. The Prophet, informed, made a sermon saying: "What have the faithful to be reluctant to do an act that God had allowed me. By God, I know well what He (authorizes or prohibits) and no one fear the Lord as much as I do". Obligation to follow the Prophet (peace be upon him)
4347. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Az-Zubayr (may God be pleased with him), a man of the 'Ansar pleaded before the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) against Az-Zubayr about the canals of "Harra" which were used to irrigate palm trees. The man of the 'Ansar asked that Az-Zubayr let the water flow to touch some of it, but the latter refused. When the trial was brought before the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he addressed Az-Zubayr in these terms: "Water, O Zubayr, then let the water flow to your neighbour". Then, full of anger, the man of the 'Ansar exclaimed: "Is it because he is the son of your paternal aunt?". At these words, the face of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) reddened with anger: "Water (your trees), O Zubayr, he continued, then keep the water until it goes back to the roots (so that it does not pass through the neighbour's land)". And Az-Zubayr then said: "By God! I believe it was about this that the following verse was revealed: No!... By your Lord! They will not be believers until they ask you. to judge their disputes and that they will have felt no anguish...Reverence for the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) and the reluctance to ask him questions of little importance or those about which no revelation has been made. been made
4349. According to Sa'd Ibn 'Abî Waqqâs (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Muslim who commits the greatest fault (offending other Muslims), is he who, asking a question about a thing which is not prohibited, makes it prohibited in answer to his question".
4351. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), some news was brought concerning the companions of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he then said from his pulpit: "I was presented Heaven and Hell; yet I have never seen Good and Evil as I have seen them today. If you know what I know, you will have laughed little and cried much". Never have the companions of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) known a day so painful as this day; (under the effect of the confessions of the Prophet), they covered their heads and burst into tears. 'Umar stood up and said: "We accept God as Lord, Islam as religion and Muhammad as Prophet". A man then intervened by asking: "Who is my father?". - "It's so-and-so", they answered. After this incident, the following verse was revealed: O believers! Do not ask questions about things which, if disclosed to you, would displease you...
4355. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: As the Prophet (peace be upon him) was asked questions which offended him and these questions multiplied, he became angry. Then he said to the assistants: "Ask me what you want". - "Who is my father?" asked a man. - "Your father, he replied, is Hudhâfa". - "And me, resumed another, who is my father, O Messenger of God?!". - "Your father, he replied, is Sâlim, the freedman of Chayba". 'Umar, having read the anger on the face of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), then said to him: "O Messenger of God, surely we repent before God". Merits of Jesus (peace be upon him)
4360. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "I am, among men, the closest to the son of Mary. The Prophets come from different mothers and between him and me, there was no Prophet".
4363. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "No child was born without having been, at the time of his birth, touched by the devil; (this is why) he begins by crying because of this touching of which he is the object on the part of the devil. But, there was no exception except for Mary and her son".
4366. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Jesus, son of Mary, seeing a man steal something, said to him: "Do you not come not to steal?". - "Not at all, answered the man, I swear by Him who Alone is God". - "I believe in God, replied Jesus, and do not believe in my eyes (my eyes can deceive me)". Merits of Abraham (peace be upon him)
4368. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Abraham ('Ibrâhîm) circumcised himself at the age of four -twenties using an axe.
4371. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: The Prophet Abraham ('Ibrâhîm) (peace be upon him) did not never lied, except three times, two of which are for the Cause of God, (the first) when he says: I am sick. and (the second) when he said: This is the greatest (idol) of them here, who has made it... The third time was about Sâra: Abraham, ('Ibrâhîm) before to access the territory of a tyrant, accompanied by his wife Sâra who was the most beautiful of women. - "If one tells this tyrant that you are my wife, said Abraham ('Ibrâhîm) he would force me to leave you. Tell him then, if he questions you, that you are my sister; indeed you are my sister in Islam, because I do not know on earth of Muslims (submitted to God) other than you and me". On arrival in this territory, they went to say to the tyrant: "A woman has come to your house who should belong to you alone! So send for her". When she entered his home when Abraham ('Ibrâhîm) (peace be upon him) prayed, he could not help seizing her from his hands. His hand was then paralyzed. - "Invoke God for me, he cried immediately, and I will do you no harm". She called on God and he was delivered. He then wanted to seize it a second time; and he was seized with a still stronger paralysis than the first. The tyrant made the same request to Sarah and she called on God. After he was freed, he tried to grab her again, but his hand was held back even more violently than the previous two times. - "Invoke God for me, he continued, and by God, I will do you no harm". She called on God and he was delivered. Then, he summoned the subject who had recommended Sâra to him and said to him: "It is not a human being that you have brought to me, but a demon! Take her out of my village and give her Hâjar!" Sâra returned to Abraham ('Ibrâhîm) (peace be upon him) who was praying. His prayer finished, he asked her what had happened to her. - "All is well, she replied; God has repressed the perfidy of the impious and we have been given a young girl as a servant". Merits of Moses (peace be upon him)
4374. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: The Angel of Death having been sent to Moses (peace be upon him), he struck him so violently that he gouged out one of his eyes. Returning then to the Lord, the Angel said to Him: "You have sent me to a man who does not want to die". God gave the Angel back the eye he had lost and said, "Go back to that man and tell him to put his hand on the back of a bull. I will give him as many years of existence as 'there will be hairs covered by his hand'. (The Angel having done the thing) Moses cried out, "O Lord! And what will become of me next?" - "Then, answered God, it will be death". - "Let her come immediately, said Moses". And he asked God to bring him closer to the holy land within a stone's throw. - "If I were there, added the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him), I will show you the tomb of Moses; it is on the side of the road, near the mound of red sand ".
4376. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: While a Jew was displaying his merchandise (in front of the customers), he was offered a price which he found ridiculous, - 'Abd Al-'Azîz did not not specify the degree of dissatisfaction of the Jew: - "No, he exclaimed, I swear by the One who elected Moses (peace be upon him) among all human beings!". A man of the 'Ansar, having heard these words, stood up, slapped the Jew and said: "What! You say: I swear by Him who chose Moses among all human beings, while the Messenger of God ( peace and blessings of God be upon him) is among us!". The Jew then went to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Abu Al-Qasim (nickname of the Prophet)! I am here under the faith of the treaties, why did so and so tell me he hit on the face?". - "Why did you slap him?" the Prophet asked the Muslim. The man having told the story, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was stricken with anger, the traces of which were drawn on his face. Then he said, “Do not discriminate between the Prophets of God (giving your predilection to one over another). the heavens and on the earth will vanish. The Trumpet will be blown a second time and I will be the first to be resurrected - or in a variant: among the first to be resurrected. At that moment, Moses will be clinging to the divine Throne. I don't know if he was taken into account when he first fainted on the day of At-Tûr (when God spoke to him) or if he was resuscitated before me. someone is better than Jonah son of Amittai". Jonah's story. From the saying of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "No one should claim to be better than Jonah son of Amittai"
4382. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: It does not befit anyone to say: "I am better than Jonah son of Amittai" and Amittai is the name of Jonas' father. Merits of Joseph (peace be upon him)
4383. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), Someone said: "O Messenger of God, who is the noblest man?". - "It is, he replied, the one who is the most pious". - "That's not what we're asking", they replied. - "It is, he continued, Joseph, son of a Prophet of God, son himself of a Prophet of God, son of the Faithful Friend of God ('Ibrâhîm)". - "That is not what we are asking", they added. - "It is therefore, continued Muhammad, about the worthy men of the Arabs that you are questioning me. Those who were the best of them in pre-Islamic times are also the best of them in Islam when 'they are educated (in religion)'. Merits of Al-Khadir (peace be upon him)
4385. According to 'Ubayy Ibn Ka'b (may God be pleased with him): Sa'îd Ibn Jubayr said: "I said one day to Ibn 'Abbâs: Nawf Al-Bikâlî claims that Moses, the companion of Al -Khadir, is not the same Moses of the Children of Israel". - "He lied, this enemy of God!", replied Ibn 'Abbas who added: I heard 'Ubayy Ibn Ka'b say that he heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: The Prophet Moses (peace be upon him), while preaching to the Children of Israel, was asked: "Who is the most learned of men?". - "It's me", he answered. God then reproached Moses for not having given him all knowledge; then He made him the following revelation: "Certainly one of My worshipers who is at the confluence of the two seas is more learned than you". - "Lord, cried Moses, how can I meet him?". - "Take a fish, answered God, put it in a basket and take it away. When you lose this fish, that's where you will find it". Moses went away, being accompanied by his servant Yûcha' Ibn Nûn. Moses took the fish in a basket, and went with his servant until they came to a rock. They rested their heads and fell asleep. The fish slipped out of the basket and found a way to get to the sea and God stopped the flow of water which then looked like a vault (to help the fish find its way to the sea). This fact surprised Moses and his servant. Then both continued to walk for the rest of their day and all their night. Moses' servant forgot to mention the incident. The next morning Moses said to his servant: Bring us our lunch: we have encountered fatigue in our present journey. Now Moses had experienced no fatigue before having passed the place fixed by God. The valet then said to him: When we took refuge near the rock, you see, I forgot the fish - the devil alone made me forget to call (you) back - and it curiously took its way into the sea. And Moses answered: This is what we were looking for. Then they retraced their steps, following in their footsteps. They retraced their steps exactly and, having arrived at the rock, they saw a man draped in a piece of cloth (thawb). Moses having greeted him, Al-Khadir said to him: "Where is the peace in your country?". – "I am Moses". - Moses, the Prophet of the Children of Israel?" - "Yes", said Moses. - "You have from God a science that God taught you and that I do not know. And me, I have from God a science that God taught me and that you don't know. Moses then said to him: May I follow you on condition that you teach me what you have been taught concerning the right direction? (The other) says: You can never be patient with me. How would you endure on things you don't embrace by your knowledge? (Moses) said to him: God willing, you will find me patient; and I will not disobey any of your orders. Al-Khadir then said: If you follow me, (...) do not ask me about anything until I mention it to you. They continued their journey together, walking along the shore of the sea, having no ship at their disposal, when a boat passed by them. They entered into negotiations with the sailors of this ship so that they took them on board. They recognized Al-Khadir and embarked them without asking them for pay. Suddenly, a sparrow came to rest on the edge of the ship and pricked its beak once or twice in the sea. mass of God's knowledge that the sea has not been diminished by the drop of water drawn from the beak of this sparrow. Then, deliberately, Al-Khadir took one of the planks of the ship and tore it down". How, said Moses, here are people who have taken us on board without asking for a charter and, deliberately, you are lacerating their ship to drown their crew! You have certainly committed a monstrous thing! - (The other) answered: Didn't I say that you could not keep patience in my company? - Don't blame me, said (Moses) for an oversight on my part; and does not impose great difficulties on me in my business (my journey in your company). This was Moses' first oversight regarding his promise to be patient. Continuing on their way, the travelers met a young boy who was playing with children of his age. Al-Khadir, seizing its head by the top, tore it from the body. Then Moses said to him, Have you killed an innocent being, who has killed no one? You have certainly done a dreadful thing! - (The other) said to him: Didn't I tell you that you could not keep patience in my company? A transmitter adds: "And this is more serious". Moses then said: If after this I ask you about anything, say (Moses) then do not accompany me any more. You will then be excused for separating from me. So they both set out; and when they came to an inhabited village, they asked for food from its inhabitants; but these refused to give them hospitality. Then they found a wall there that was about to collapse. The man straightened him up. With a wave of his hand, Al-Khadir pointed to the wall to his companion and raised it. - "Do you act like this towards people who had refused us food and hospitality?". If you wanted, you could well have demanded a salary for that. - This (marks) the separation between you and me, said (the man). I will teach you the interpretation of what you could not endure with patience. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "May God have mercy on Moses! How we would have liked that he had had enough patience so that he could tell us more of their adventures" . The Authentic of Muslim 44 - Merits of the Companions ( رضي الله عنهم ) Merits of Abu Bakr As-Siddiq
4389. According to Abu Bakr As-Siddiq (may God be pleased with him), I was with the Prophet in the cave, when I saw the polytheists coming (who were pursuing us). I said to him: "O Prophet of God! If one of them lowered his eyes, he would see us". - "Shut up, O Abu Bakr, he replied, what do you think of two (people) of whom God is the third (who envelops them with His protection)".
4390. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) making a sermon, expressed himself thus: "God, having given to one of His servants the choice between the goods of this world and those which are with Him, this man has chosen this last lot". Abu Bakr then began to cry and said: "That we sacrifice for you our fathers and our mothers!". Now, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was this Servant to whom God gave this choice and Abu Bakr was the person most informed about him. - "The man, said the Prophet, who has been the most generous towards me with his affection and his fortune, is Abu Bakr. If I had had to choose someone among my Community as a friend faithful, certainly I would have chosen Abu Bakr, but Islamic fraternity and the reciprocal affection of the faithful (are preferable to friendship). butcher it, except that of Abu Bakr".
4396. According to 'Amr Ibn Al-'As (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having put him at the head of the troops of the expedition of Dhât as-Salâsil, he went to find him and said to him: "Who is the person you love the most?". - "'Aisha", he replied. - "And among men?" resumed 'Amr. - "His father (Abu Bakr)". - "And who else?". - "'Umar (ibn Al-Khattab)". Then he listed other men.
4398. Muhammad Ibn Jubayr Ibn Mut'im reports from his father that a woman having come to ask the Prophet (peace be upon him) about something, the latter (after giving him his instructions) asked to come back later. - "O Messenger of God, she said, but what should I do, if I come and I do not find you?". - it is as if it alluded to the death of the Prophet, according to Jubayr -. "If you can't find me, he replied, contact Abu Bakr".
4399. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), during his illness, said to me: Call me your father Abu Bakr and your brother so that I dictate a letter, because I am afraid that someone will wish and that he will say: "I am the most meritorious (than anyone to be the head of the Muslims after the death of the Prophet)" , yet God and the Believers refuse and only accept Abu Bakr.
4401. Narrated Abu Hurayrah (may God be pleased with him) that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: While a man was leading a cow which he had loaded with baggage, the one -ci turned to him and said: "I was not created for this, I was created for labor". Frightened, the men exclaimed: "Glory to God! Is it true that a cow can speak?". - "I believe this, said the Prophet, Abu Bakr and 'Umar also believe this". Abu Hurayra adds: The Prophet (peace be upon him) said: While a shepherd was watching over his flock, the wolf took a sheep from it. The shepherd went after her and was able to save her. - "And who will save her, cried the wolf, on the day of the lion, this day when there will be no other shepherd than me?". People exclaimed: "Glory to God!". - "I believe that, added the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him); Abu Bakr and 'Umar also believe it". Merits of 'Umar
4402. Ibn 'Abbas ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I was standing in the midst of the crowd praying to God for 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb, laid in his coffin. Suddenly a man, who was behind me, seized me by the shoulders. Turning around then, I saw that it was 'Ali Ibn 'Abi Talib. He said (addressing 'Umar): "May God have mercy on you! I have not coveted a place with the Lord as I have coveted your high place and I do hope that God will place you with your two (Muhammad and Abu Bakr) How many times indeed have I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) say: I have been with Abu Bakr and 'Umar, I have done ( such a thing); I went (to such a place) with Abu Bakr and 'Umar. That is why I hope that God will place you with them both".
4403. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "While I was sleeping, I saw in dreams people who 'I was passed in front of me wearing shirts, some of which went up to their breasts, while others did not go up to them. 'Omar Ibn Al-Khattâb was one of those who passed in front of me and his shirt dragged on the ground". - "How do you interpret this dream, O Messenger of God?", he was asked. - "The shirt symbolized religion", he answered.
4404. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "While I was sleeping, a bowl of milk was brought to me (in a dream); I drank until 'I seemed to feel this drink flowing from my fingernails. So, I handed over to 'Umar ibn Al-Khattâb what I had not been able to drink". - "What interpretation do you give of this?", one asked the Messenger of God. "That was science," he replied.
4405. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "One night while I was sleeping, I saw myself on the edge of 'a well near which was a bucket. I took this bucket and drew from the well the quantity of water that God wanted. Ibn Abu Quhafa then took the bucket and drew one or two buckets, not without a certain failure, may God forgive him. After that, the (small) bucket turned into a big one. So Ibn Al-Khattâb took it. Never have I seen the strongest man among the people draw water like 'Umar, so that (at the end) the people rested (their camels near the watering hole, after drinking their fill)".
4407. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: I saw myself (in a dream) drawing from an old well at the using a bucket. Abu Bakr got up and drew a bucket or two of water; feeling pain. May God - to Him the power and the glory - forgive him. Then 'Umar took the (small) bucket which turned into his hand, into a big one. Never have I seen the strongest man astound people with his work like him, so that (in the end) people rested (their camels near the water trough, after drinking their fill).
4408. According to Jabir (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: I entered Paradise and saw a house or a palace there. - "Whose palace is this?", I asked. - "To 'Omar Ibn Al-Khattâb", I was answered. I wanted to enter it, but what prevented me from doing so was your jealousy, (O 'Umar). 'Umar began to cry and exclaimed: "O Messenger of God, could I be jealous of you?".
4409. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "During my sleep, I saw myself in Paradise; a woman doing her ablutions near of a castle presented itself to my eyes. I asked whose castle it was; and I was answered: To 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb. And then, remembering the jealousy of 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb. , I turned my back and I retraced my steps". Abu Hurayra said: "At these words, 'Umar began to cry as well as all those who attended the assembly of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), then 'Umar said: Can I be jealous of you, for whom I would sacrifice my father's life, O Messenger of God?".
4410. Sa'd (may God be pleased with him) said: 'Umar once asked permission to enter the Prophet (peace be upon him), when the latter had with him Quraysh women who, with loud voices, spoke to him of an increase in their share of donations. When 'Umar asked permission to enter, they rose and hastened to hide from view. 'Umar, having received permission to enter from the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), found the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of God upon him) laughing. 'Umar said to him, "May God cause laughter to flourish on your teeth, O Messenger of God!" The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "It is because I was amused to see these women, who were at my house, hastening to the sound of your voice to hide from view". - "And yet you, Messenger of God, replied 'Umar, you are more worthy (than me) to impose veneration on them"; and (addressing the women) 'Umar added: "Enemies of your souls, you venerate me instead of venerating the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)!". - "Yes, they replied, you are stiffer and rougher than the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)!". - "By Him who holds my soul in His hands, said the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him), the devil has never met you on a road without immediately taking another road than yours".
4412. 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him) said: "God (inspired me) and agreed with me on three things: the station of Abraham ('Ibrâhîm), the observation of the veil and the captives of Badr".
4413. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: When 'Abdullâh ibn 'Ubayy ibn Salûl being dead, his son, 'Abdullâh ibn 'Abdullâh came to ask the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to give him his shirt to use as a shroud for his father. The Prophet having given it to him, he asked him to make the funeral prayer over his father. When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) stood up to make this prayer, 'Umar rose up and, seizing the Messenger (peace and blessings of God upon him) by his garment, exclaimed : "O Messenger of God, the Lord has forbidden you to pray over him". - "God, answered the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), only left me the choice, saying: Whether you ask forgiveness for them, or that you do not ask - and if you ask forgiveness for them seventy times... Well, I will implore it more than seventy times". - "But he is a hypocrite", resumed 'Umar. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) nevertheless made the prayer and it was then that the following revelation took place: And never do the Sala on one of them who dies and does not stand not standing near his tomb Merits of 'Uthmân Ibn 'Affân
4416. Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari (may God be pleased with him) said: While the Prophet (peace be upon him) was seated in one of the gardens of Medina, leaning on a place where there were water and pushing a branch he had in the mud. A man came and asked that the door be opened to him: "Open to him, said the Prophet, and tell him that he will go to Paradise". I opened the door and saw Abu Bakr to whom I announced what the Prophet had instructed me to do. Another man then came and asked to be opened. - "Open to him, said the Prophet, and tell him the good news that he will go to Paradise". I opened it and saw 'Umar to whom I announced what the Prophet had charged me with. Finally a third man asked that the door be opened to him. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then sat up and said to me: "Open to him and tell him the good news that he will enter Paradise despite a misfortune that will strike him". It was 'Uthmân ibn 'Affân to whom I announced what the Prophet had instructed me to do. 'Uthman then said, "God give me patience!" and added: "God is the one whose help we must implore". Merits of 'Ali Ibn 'Abi Talib
4418. According to Sa'd Ibn 'Abî Waqqâs (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet said to 'Alî: "You are vis-à-vis me in the situation of Aaron with regard to Moses, with this difference that after me there will be no more Prophet".
4423. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said on the day of Khaybar: "Tomorrow I will entrust the flag to a man by whose hand God will give us the victory, to a man who loves God and His Messenger and whom God and His Messenger love". All the faithful spent the night, in agitation, to know to whom the flag would be given. The next morning, the faithful went to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), hoping all to receive this flag. - "Where is 'Ali Ibn 'Abi Talib?" asked the Prophet. - "O Messenger of God, his eyes hurt", he was answered. - "Let's go get him!", resumed the Prophet. They brought him and the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) spat in his eyes and made an invocation and immediately 'Ali was healed to the point that he seemed never to have been ill. The Prophet having given him the flag, 'Ali said: "O Messenger of God, I will fight them until they are (Muslims) like us". - "Go, replied the Prophet, be calm until you have arrived at their positions; then invite them to embrace Islam; tell them the duties that religion imposes on them vis-à-vis God. By God! It would be better for you to be, thanks to God, the guide of one man in the right way than to have red camels".
4424. Salama Ibn al-'Akwa' (may God be pleased with him) said: 'Ali had failed at the call of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to the Khaybar expedition, because of a eye pain from which he suffered. Then he said to himself: "Will I fail at the call of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)!". 'Ali left immediately and joined the Prophet (peace be upon him). Now, on the eve of the day in the morning of which God had guaranteed the victory, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Tomorrow I will give the flag to a man, - or the flag will be received by a man, loved by God and His Messenger - or loving God and His Messenger - and it is by his hand that victory will be granted". And now, at this moment, 'Ali came to us unexpectedly. - "Here is 'Ali," said the Muslims. Then the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) entrusted him with the flag and God gave victory to the Muslims through his hands.
4426. Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went to Fatima. Not finding 'Ali at home, the Prophet asked Fatima where her uncle's son was, she replied: "There is something happening between us, so he got angry with me and left without taking his me". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) ordered someone to look for his whereabouts. The latter then came to say to the Prophet: "O Messenger of God! He is sleeping in the mosque". The Prophet (peace be upon him) went to him and found him lying down; her shawl (ridâ') undone after having fallen from her shoulders and covered with dust. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) began to dust off this dust, saying to him: "Hey! the man of dust ('Abû-Turâb, who thus became the nickname of 'Ali), get up! ". Merits of Sa'd Ibn 'Abi Waqqas
4427. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: One night the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) had insomnia. He said: "Would to God if a virtuous man of my companions comes to watch over me this night". Having said this, we heard the clash of arms, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) asked: "Who is there?". Sa'd Ibn 'Abî Waqqâs answered: "O Messenger of God! I come to keep you". 'A'isha continued: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) fell into a deep sleep so that we heard his snoring".
4429. 'Ali (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace be upon him) never mentioned both his father and his mother except in favor of Sa'd Ibn Mâlik, because on the day of 'Uhud, he said to him: "Shoot (your arrows), which I sacrifice for you my father and my mother".
4430. Sa'd Ibn 'Abî Waqqâs (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) added my name to those of his father and his mother on the day of the battle of 'Uhud'. Merits of Talha and Az-Zubayr
4435. Abu 'Uthmân said: "On some of those days when the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) gave battle, there remained for the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him) only Talha and Sa'd, as they both reported".
4436. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdoullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) appealed to the Muslims for the first time on the day of the Ditch and Az-Zubayr answered this call; then a second and Az-Zubayr answered again; then a third and Az-Zubayr answered again. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said: "Every Prophet had a follower and my follower is Az-Zubayr".
4437. 'Abdullâh Ibn Az-Zubayr ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: On the day of the Ditch, I and 'Umar Ibn 'Abi Salama were put with the women in the fort of Hasan. The latter bent his back, I sat up on which to see and in turn, I bent his back so that he could see. I then saw my father, mounted on his horse, during arms, going towards the Banû Qurayza. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Urwa narrated from 'Abdullâh Ibn Az-Zubayr: "On my return (home), I told this to my father". - "Have you seen me, my son?", he said to me. - "Yes", I resumed. So he said: "By God! the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) joined my name that day to those of his father and his mother, saying: "I will sacrifice for you my father and my mother".
4440. According to 'Urwa Ibn Az-Zubayr, 'Aisha said to me: “Your parents, by God, were of Those who, although afflicted with wounds, responded to the call of God and the Messenger. » Merits of Abu 'Ubayda Ibn Al-Jarrah
4442. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Each nation has its trusted man. Well! O faithful, our trusted man , it is Abu 'Ubayda Ibn Al-Jarrah".
4444. Hudhayfa (may God be pleased with him) said: The inhabitants of Nijran came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God! Send us a man of confidence ". - "I will send you, he answered, a man of confidence, completely of confidence". Everyone aspired to this title and it was Abu 'Ubayda Ibn Al-Jarrah that the Prophet sent. Merits of Al-Hasan and Al-Husayn
4445. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace be upon him) said to Hasan: "Lord, I love him; love him; and love whoever loves him."
4447. Al-Barâ' Ibn 'Azib (may God be pleased with him) said: I saw the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) carrying on his shoulder Al-Hasan Ibn 'Ali and saying: "Lord, I love him, love him too". Merits of Zayd Ibn Haritha and Usama Ibn Zayd
4451. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), Zayd Ibn Hâritha was never called by us other than Zayd Ibn Muhammad. This lasted until the moment when this verse of the Koran was revealed: Call them by the name of their fathers: it is fairer before God.
4452. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had sent an expedition at the head of which he had placed Usama Ibn Zayd. Some having objected to his elevation to these offices, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) stood up and said: "You object to his command as you objected to that of his father before. Well! I swear by the most solemn oaths, that his father was worthy of his office and, if he was the dearest of beings to me, his son is the one I love the most after him". Merits of 'Abdullâh Ibn Ja'far
4454. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abi Mulayka, 'Abdullâh Ibn Ja'far said to Ibn Az-Zubayr: "Do you remember the day when we went to meet the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him), you, Ibn 'Abbas and me?". - "Yes, he replied; he took us behind him on his horse and you he left you on the ground!". (The camel cannot carry the three boys in addition to the Prophet himself.)
4455. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Ja'far (may God be pleased with him), When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) returned from an expedition, the children of his household welcomed him first. . Once, returning from an expedition, I was presented to him before the others, he took me in his hands, then they brought him one of Fatima's sons and he took him up behind him. We entered Medina all three mounted on the same horse. Merits of Khadija, Mother of Believers
4458. 'Ali (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) say: "The best of the women of her time is Mary, daughter of 'Imran, and the best of the women of her time is Khadîja bint Khuwaylid".
4460. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), Gabriel came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God, here is Khadija. She will bring you a jar containing condiments - or in two variants - food or drink. When she brings it to you, greet her from the Almighty Lord and mine and tell her that she will have Paradise a house of hollow pearls where she will not be troubled by any noise or experience any fatigue".
4461. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abi 'Awfâ, Ismâ'îl (may God be pleased with him) said: According to 'Ismâ'îl, I asked 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abi 'Awfâ if the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had announced the good news to Khadîja: that she will have a home in Paradise, he replied: "Yes". The Prophet announced to her that she will have in Paradise a dwelling of hollow pearls where she will not hear any noise and where she will not experience any fatigue.
4462. 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her) said: "The Messenger of God announced the good news to Khadija bint Khuwaylid: that she will have a home in Paradise".
4467. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: "Hâla bint Khuwaylid, the sister of Khadija, having asked to be admitted to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he ci, recognizing (in her) the way of expressing himself of Khadîja, was quite disturbed and exclaimed: "O Lord, it is Hâla bint Khuwaylid". Do you evoke the memory of one of those old Quraychite women, with red gums (toothless) who are the victims of the years? God, in her place, has now given you a better one than her". Merits of 'Aisha
4468. According to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: You were shown to me in a dream three times. An angel brought you to me wrapped in a piece of silk, saying to me: "Here is your wife", I discovered your face and I found no other than you. I then said: "If it is predestined by God, may He accomplish it for me".
4469. According to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her): The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to me: "I recognize when you are satisfied with me and when you are angry with me ". - "And how do you recognize that?", I asked him. - "When you are satisfied with me, he answered me, you say: "No, I swear by the Lord of Muhammad" and when you are irritated against me: "No, I swear by the Lord of Abraham ( 'Ibrâhîm)". - "It is true, I continued, by God! O Messenger of God, in fact I can only renounce pronouncing your name".
4470. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said that she was playing with dolls at the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). She added: "I had friends who came to play with me. When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) entered, they hid from him out of of God upon him) would send someone to get them to continue playing with me".
4471. According to 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her): The Muslims knew the predilection which the Messenger of God gave to 'Aisha; also, when one of them had a gift to offer him, and to gain his satisfaction, he waited until the Prophet was in the apartment of 'Aisha and then, he sent the bearer of the gift to find him at her house.
4472. Narrative of 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), the wife of the Prophet: him (peace and blessings be upon him). She asked permission to come into his house, while he was lying on his side with me, on my woolen blanket. When he allowed her to enter, she said: "O Messenger of God, your wives ask you, conjuring you by God, to be impartial and not to favor the daughter of Abu Quhafa". While I ('Aisha) kept silent. Fatima spoke to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who replied: "My dear daughter, don't you love what I love myself?". - "Yes", she replied. - "So love this one", he replied. Having heard this from the Messenger (peace and blessings of God be upon him), Fatima got up and returned to the wives of the Messenger (peace and blessings of God upon him) and told them what she had said and the answer of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). They replied: "To tell the truth, we find that your approach was useless". Then they asked him to make a new approach to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and to tell him: "Your wives are asking you, conjuring you by God, to be impartial and not to favor the daughter of Abu Quhafa". But Fatima refused. 'A'isha continued: The wives of the Prophet then sent Zaynab bint Jahsh, the wife of the Prophet (peace be upon him) who was of all the wives of the Prophet the one who counterbalanced me in the esteem of the Messenger of God ( peace and blessings of God be upon him). I have never seen in religion a woman better than Zaynab: more pious, more truthful, more attached to her blood ties, more generous in giving alms and giving herself body and soul in all charitable work, with a view to draw closer and closer to God the Most High. But, quickly she gets angry, quickly she calms down. She went to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and while he (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was with 'Aisha, wrapped in his woolen blanket, in the state in which Fatima had already found him, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) gave him permission to enter. She said to him in a loud voice: "O Messenger of God, your wives are asking you, conjuring you by God to be impartial and not to favor the daughter of Abu Quhafa". She raised her voice until 'Aisha, who was sitting there, heard her speak ill of her. Then 'Aisha stared indiscreetly at the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to see if he would allow her to speak in turn. 'Aisha took the floor and replied to Zaynab until she had silenced her. At this moment, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) looked at 'Aisha and said with a smile: "She is indeed the daughter of Abu Bakr".
4473. According to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), during the illness from which he died, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Where will be- I today?", "Where will I be tomorrow?"; finding the day dedicated to 'Aisha far away. 'Aisha added: "When the day arrived that he had consecrated to me, he breathed his last, his head placed between my neck and my chest".
4477. According to 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her), when the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was to go on an expedition, he cast lots among his wives. (This time) the spell designated 'Aisha and Hafsa. So they both went with him. However, as soon as night fell, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) traveled with 'Aisha to talk with her. - "Would you like, said Hafsa to 'Aïcha, to go up this night on my camel, while I will go up on yours, we will see you and me what will arrive?". - "I accept", replied 'Aisha. Then, 'Aisha rode on the camel of Hafsa and Hafsa rode on the camel of 'Aisha, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came towards the camel of 'Aisha which indeed carried Hafsa. He bowed and walked with her to the stage. Having missed it, 'Aisha was seized with jealousy. When we arrived at the stage, 'Aisha, putting her foot in the Idhkhir (aromatic plant), exclaimed: "Lord, make a scorpion or a snake sting me, because I cannot say anything to your Messenger (to justify myself)".
4478. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "The superiority of 'Aisha over women is like that of the tharid ( dish consisting of meat and bread) on all other dishes".
4479. According to 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to her: "O 'Aisha! Here is Gabriel who greets you". - "And, she replied, may God's peace and mercy be upon him". Narrative of 'Umm Zar'
4481. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: Eleven wives met and decided to impose on themselves the obligation not to hide anything from each other about the doings and gestures of their husbands. The first spoke up and said, "My husband is lean camel meat placed on the top of a mountain. He has no plain to climb, nor fat to carry away." (she alludes to his vanity and bad temper). - "I won't say anything about my husband, said the second, because I'm afraid of not getting to the end, if I mention his flaws as visible as they are invisible". - "My great devil of a husband, said the third, if I talk about it, I will be repudiated and if I am silent, I will be abandoned neither married nor divorced". - "My husband, said the fourth, is like the night of the Tihama, neither hot nor cold. He inspires me neither fear nor disgust". (She thus alludes to her good character and her happiness with him). - "When, said the fifth, my husband comes in the house, he is like a cheetah, but when he goes out, he is a lion, he does not worry about what had happened (at the house )". - "My husband, said the sixth, mix (everything) when he eats and drink everything when he drinks. If he goes to bed, he bundles up and does not put his hand in to know my worries (literally: sorrow) ". (She means he hardly ever sleeps with her). - "My husband, said the seventh, is in excessive illusions - or according to a variant - in excessive laziness; he is flat, worthless and has all the possible vices, he splits your skull (jokingly) or hurts you (to punish), or even does both of these things to you". - "My husband's touches, said the eighth, are soft like those of the hare and his scent is that of zerneb". (She wants to express her happiness to him because of his generous character). - "My husband, said the ninth, is noble and generous; he is of tall stature; and is very hospitable; his house is, so to speak, close to every man who calls him (word for word)". - "My husband, said the tenth, is a Mâlik and how good he is Mâlik! No one is equal to him. He has many camels that are often made to kneel (to milk them and give milk to the guests) , but which are seldom sent out to pasture (so as to have them on hand to slaughter them if a guest arrives). they don't have long to live". - "My husband, said the eleventh, it is Abou Zar'. Ah! what a man that Abou Zar'! He has filled my ears with jewels and made my biceps plump. He has given me joy and I am happy with him. He found me with people who had only a few sheep, in a hamlet and took me to people with horses, camels stalking grain and peeling their vegetables. When I talk to him, he does not criticize me. I go to bed and sleep until morning. I drink my thirst. Abu Zar's mother! Ah! what a mother Abu Zar's is! Her provisions are abundant and her house is vast. And the son of Abou Zar'! Ah! what a son that that of Abou Zar'! His bed is like an unsheathed blade, a kid's shoulder is enough to satiate him. And the daughter of Abou Zar'! Ah! what a girl that that of Abou Zar'! She obeys her father; she obeys her mother; she fills her clothes well and she excites the envy of her neighbors. And the servant of Abou Zar'! Ah! what a servant she is! of Abu Zar'! She does not spread outside the talk we hold among ourselves; it does not waste our provisions; she did not fill our house with garbage, on the contrary, she took care of it. Abou Zar', my husband, having gone out while the skins were stirred to make butter, met a woman who had with her two children like two cheetahs who were playing with two pomegranates (these are strongly developed breasts) which they passed below her waist (while she was lying down). He divorced me and married this woman. So I married a generous man of good birth. He mounted an agile horse, took a spear of khat and in the evening he came back to me with a large herd. He gave me a pair of each of the animals he had brought back saying to me: Eat, O 'Umm Zar', and supply your family. Well! I would have collected all that he had given me, that it would not have been enough to fill the smallest of the cauldrons of Abu Zar'". - "And, added 'Aisha, the Messenger of God (peace and blessing of God upon him) said to me: I have been for you like Abu Zar' for 'Umm Zar'". Merits of Fatima, daughter of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God upon him)
4482. Al-Miswar Ibn Makhrama ( رضي الله عنهما ) reports that he heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say on the pulpit: "The Banû Hâchim Ibn Al-Mughîra ask me for permission to give 'Ali ibn 'Abi Talib their daughter in marriage. Well, I will no longer give them this permission, I will no longer give them this permission, I will no longer give them this permission, unless Abu Talib's son repudiates my daughter to marry theirs. Fatima is a part of me, what worries her, worries me too and what night harms me".
4486. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) appealed to his daughter Fatima. Then he said something to her in secret which made her cry, then he said something else to her in secret which made her laugh. 'Aisha continued: "I asked Fatima: What did the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) tell you in secret that made you cry and then what he told you in secret that made you laugh? - "He confided to me first in secret that his death was imminent, so I cried, then he confided to me in secret that I would be the first of his family to follow him to the grave, that's why I laughed" . Merits of Oum Salama, Mother of Believers
4489. Usâma Ibn Zayd ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I was informed that Gabriel came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) while Um Salama was at home. After his interview with him, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) stood up and said to Oum Salama: "Do you know this person?", -or as he said. Oum Salama answered him: "It is Dihya! By God, I was convinced that it was him, until the day when I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) declare in the pulpit that it was about Gabriel. Or as he put it." Merits of Zaynab, Mother of Believers
4490. According to 'A'isha the mother of the Faithful (may God be pleased with her), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The one among you who will join me soonest (c .-i.e. she will die first) is the one with the longest arm". 'A'isha added: "The wives of the Prophet measured their arms in order to know who is the one who has the longest arm". She further added: “Zaynab had among us the longest arm, because she worked with her own hand and gave alms”. Merits of Bilâl and 'Umm Sulaym, mother of Anas Ibn Mâlik
4493. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), apart from the dwelling of his wives, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) did not enter any house other than that of 'Umm Sulaym (Near relative of the Prophet, being forbidden him to marry). It was pointed out to him. He replied, "I pity her, because her brother was killed while he was with me."
4495. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "During a dream, I was shown Paradise and I saw there the wife of Abou Talha, then I heard in front of me a noise. It was Bilâl ". Merits of Bilal
4497. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), At the time of the morning prayer, the Messenger of God said to Bilâl, "O Bilâl, tell me what work you have done in the Islam and from which you expect the most reward? I heard (last night) the sound of your sandals in front of me in Paradise". - "I have not, replied Bilâl, done in Islam any work from which I hope for the most reward than this: I have never made an ablution by night or by day without having prayed with this purification this which had been prescribed (i.e. predestined, willed by God) for me to pray". Merits of 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud and his mother
4499. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: "We came back, my brother and I, from Yemen; we remained for some time believing that Ibn Mas'oud and his mother were part of the family of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), so often did they go to his house and stay there".
4502. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: "According to what reading do you order me to recite (the Koran)? I received from the mouth of the Messenger of God ( peace and blessings of God be upon him) seventy and some suras. The companions of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) know that I know the Book of God better than them. someone better instructed than I in the Book of God, I would ride a camel to go to him". Chaqîq adds: "I sat down in a group of the companions of Muhammad (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to hear what people would say about this and I did not hear anyone contradicting him".
4504. Masrouq said: We used to go to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr to talk with him - or according to Ibn Numayr, to his house. One day, as they were talking about 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud in front of 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr, he exclaimed: You mentioned a man whom I will never cease to love, because I heard the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) say something about him. I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "Take the Koran of four persons: of Ibn 'Umm 'Abd ('Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud), whom he first named , of Mu'adh Ibn Jabal, of 'Ubayy Ibn Ka'b, and of Sâlim, the freedman of Abu Hudhayfa". Merits of 'Ubayy Ibn Ka'b and a group of 'Ansar
4507. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), During the lifetime of the Messenger (peace and blessings of God be upon him), those who knew (the best) the Koran by heart were four in number and all were 'Ansar. They were: Mu'adh Ibn Jabal, 'Ubayy Ibn Ka'b, Zayd Ibn Thâbit and Abu Zayd. Merits of Sa'd Ibn Mu'adh
4511. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdoullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Throne of Mercy trembled with emotion at the death of Sa'd Ibn Mu'adh".
4514. Al Barâ' (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had been given a silk tunic. As his companions fingered this fabric and admired its finesse, he said to them: "You admire the finesse of this fabric, well! The handkerchiefs of Sa'd Ibn Mu'âdh in Paradise will be better than her and even finer" .
4515. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) had been offered a satin fustanelle, which surprised the faithful, because he had prohibited silk . - "By Him who holds in His hands the soul of Muhammad, he cried, the handkerchiefs of Sa'd Ibn Mu'âdh, in Paradise, will be more beautiful than that". Merits of 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr Ibn Harâm, father of Jabir
4517. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), On the day of the battle of 'Uhud, my father was carried, wrapped in a shroud, after having been mutilated. As I wanted to discover his face, the faithful forbade me, then I tried once again to discover his face and the faithful forbade me. Finally, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) discovered it, -or ordered someone to do so. Hearing the voice of a woman crying, or screaming, he asked, "Who is she?". They replied, "She is the daughter of 'Amr - or the sister of 'Amr". He then said to him, "Why are you crying? The angels kept wrapping their wings around him until you lifted up the body (to bury it)". Merits of Abu Dharr
4520. Narrative reported from Abu Dharr (may God be pleased with him): We left our tribe "Ghifâr" who declared that the holy month is not; we left: my brother 'Unays, my mother and I and we went to our maternal uncle who granted us hospitality and honored us. His family envied us, they said to him: "When you turn away from your parents, know that 'Unays frequents them". My uncle came to tell us about the words of the men, I said to him: "What you gave us as good hospitality, only brought you back what you dislike and we do not stay with you in the same place". We brought our mounts, we rode them, our uncle wrapped up his coat and began to cry. We left and arrived in Makkah. There 'Unays vied with one of the townspeople against a wager which was only the small number of our mounts. He went with this man to a monk to take him as judge and as the latter pronounced his sentence in favor of 'Unays, 'Unays returned with our mounts and a number which was equal to him. Abu Dharr continued his story and said: "O my brother's son! I began to pray three years before I met the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". The reporter interrupted him and said: "For whom did you make your prayers?". He answered: "For God". I replied, "Which way did you turn while praying?" - "Where my Lord indicated it to me, he said. sun was very high". 'Unays said to me: "I have a business in Makkah, I will finish it, take care of my property (while I am away)." 'Unays went to Makkah, but he was late in coming back and when he arrived, I asked him: "What have you done". He answered me: "I met in Mecca a man who has the same religion as you, he claims that God sent him". I asked him: "What do they say about him?". He replied: "They say: a poet, a diviner, a magician". 'Unays was a poet. 'Unays continued: "I had heard the words of the soothsayers, the words of this man did not resemble them. I chanted his words to find out if it was prosody, but no one could say that it was poetry. By God! What he said is true and they are the liars". Abu Dharr continued his story: I said to my brother: "Take care of my business so that I can go myself". I went to Mecca, I chose a weak man and I said to him: "Where is this man you call the Sabaean?". As he pointed to the Sabaean, the valley dwellers thrashed me, beating me with mud and bone so that I fell unconscious. When I regained consciousness, I was like a standing stone of red color, I went to the well of Zamzam to wash my traces of blood and to drink from its water. O son of my brother! I spent there thirty days and nights having only Zamzam water to drink, devoid of food and I became obese so that the folds of my belly folded over each other and I experienced no feeling of hunger. It was a night under the stars, the inhabitants of Mecca fell asleep under the effect of deafness and no one was making the rounds around the House, I saw two women invoking (the two idols) Isâf and Nâ 'he has. As they were going around the House, they met me and I said to them: "Give in marriage one (of these idols) to another", but they did not stop calling on them and I continued: "I do not can't distinguish (the male from the female) because they are only two wooden figures". Hearing this, they left me screaming and saying, "If only there were some of us (to punish me for insulting the two idols)". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), who received them in the company of Abu Bakr, asked them: "What is the matter with you?". They replied: "This Sabaean is hiding behind the curtains of the Ka'ba". He replied, "What did he say to you?" They answered him: "He spoke a very obscene word to us". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) entered with his companion and made a tour starting by touching the black stone, then they made a prayer. The prayer finished, I (Abou Dharr) went to the Prophet and I was the first to address him the greeting of Islam by saying to him: "Peace be upon you, O Messenger of God". He answered me: "And on you, as well as the mercy of God". Then he continued: "Who are you?". I answered him: "A man of the tribe of Ghifâr". At these words, he put his hand on his forehead touching it with his fingers and I then said to myself: "It is repugnant that I am from Ghifâr". As I wanted to take his hand, his companion prevented me, because he knows his behavior more than me. The Messenger of God then raised his head and said: "Since when have you been here?". I answered: "For thirty days and nights". - "Who gave you food?", he replied. I said: "I had no food but Zamzam water, I became obese so that the folds of my belly fall back on each other without however feeling hungry". He retorted: "This water is blessed and it alone constitutes food". Abu Bakr then said: "O Messenger of God! Allow me to give him hospitality this night". The Messenger of God went with his companion (Abu Bakr) and I accompanied them. Abu Bakr opened a door, took Taif raisin in his hand and gave me to eat and that was the first food I took. I stayed for some time and I went to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who said to me: "I have been inspired to go to a territory full of palm groves and I believe that is none other than Yathrib, will you please inform your people (that I will go), perhaps God will make you useful to them and reward you". I returned to 'Unays who asked me: "What have you done?". I answered him: "I converted to Islam and I believed in the Messenger of God". He replied: "I am not repugnant to your religion because I have already embraced Islam and believed in it". We left, my brother and I, to our mother, who also told us: "I am not repugnant to your religion because I embraced Islam and I believed in it". We returned to our people "Ghifâr", half of our tribe embraced Islam in turn and among them was 'Aymâ' Ibn Rahada Al-Ghifârî who chaired the prayer and who was their master. As for the second half, it says: If the Messenger of God came to Medina, this half (of our tribe) embraced Islam and men of the tribe of 'Aslam came to him and said to him: "O Messenger of God! The men of Ghifâr are only our brothers, we submit ourselves to what they submitted to themselves" and they embraced Islam. The Messenger of God then said: "Ghifâr, God forgive them, 'Aslam, God deliver them". Merits of Jarir Ibn 'Abdullah
4522. Jarir Ibn 'Abdullah (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has never refused to give me permission to see him since my conversion to Islam and has never seen me without smiling at me". Merits of 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Abbas
4526. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went to satisfy a natural need and I brought him water to make his ablutions. Once he returned, he found the water and asked, "Who brought this?". According to Zuhayr's version: "He was answered", but according to Abu Bakr's: "I answered him": "It is Ibn 'Abbas". The Messenger of God then said: "Great God! Make him educated (in religion)". Merits of 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar
4527. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I saw myself in a dream holding in my hand a piece of brocade. There was no place I wanted to reach in Heaven without this coin flying in his direction. I told this dream to Hafsa (his sister and the wife of the Prophet) who told it, in turn, to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him). The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to him: "I find that 'Abdullâh is a virtuous man". Merits of Anas Ibn Mâlik
4529. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: 'Umm Sulaym said: "O Messenger of God! Anas is your servant; invoke God on his behalf". So the Prophet said, "Lord! Multiply him with wealth and offspring and bless him with all that You have given him."
4533. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came to find me while I was playing with the kids. He greeted us, then gave me some business. As I came home late, my mother asked me: "What kept you back?". I say: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has entrusted me with a matter". She asked me: "What was this business?". I replied, "It's a secret." She then said to me: "Do not reveal to anyone the secret of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". Anas said, "By God! If I had to reveal it to anyone, I would reveal it to you, O Thâbit". Merits of 'Abdullâh Ibn Salam
4535. Sa'd Ibn 'Abî Waqqâs (may God be pleased with him) said: "I have never heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say to a living being on earth that he would be one of the guests of Paradise, except to 'Abdoullâh Ibn Salam".
4536. Qays Ibn 'Ubad said: "I was sitting in Medina (in the mosque) with people including some companions of the Prophet (peace be upon him), when a man came who looked devout. - "This man will surely go to Heaven, this man will surely go to Heaven", they said when they saw him. The man prayed two rak'ahs which he lightened, then left. I followed him until he returned home. I then went to his home and when he became familiar with me, I said to him: "When you entered the mosque a man said such and such". - "Glory to God, he replied, he does not suit anyone to say things he does not know. I'll tell you why we say that. During the lifetime of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him), I had a vision which I told him. It seemed to me that I was in a parterre (and the narrator describes its extent and its verdure); in the middle was an iron column whose lower part was stuck in the ground, while the upper part reached to the sky. At the top of this column was a handle". - "Mount this column", I was told. - "I cannot", I answered. Then a helper, Ibn 'Awn said a helper is a servant, came to me and lifted my clothes from behind. I immediately climbed up and, having reached the top of the column, I grabbed the handle. - "Hold on tight", they shouted to me. I just woke up when my hand was holding the handle. When I told this dream to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), he said to me: "This flower bed symbolized Islam; the column was the column of Islam; the cove was the solid cove. You will remain a Muslim until your death". Now this man was 'Abdoullâh Ibn Salam. Merits of Hassân Ibn Thâbit
4539. According to 'Abu Hurayra, Sa'îd Ibn Al-Musayyib said: 'Umar passed by Hassan who was reciting verses within the mosque and looked at him. So, Hassan said to 'Umar: "I was reciting verses in the mosque in the presence of someone who was better than you". (i.e. in the presence of the Messenger of God). Then he turned to Abu Hurayra and said: "In the name of God, I adjure you to declare if you have heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say to me: Answer instead of me. Lord , help him (in this task) with the Holy Spirit!". - "By God! It is true", replied Abu Hurayra.
4541. Al-Barâ' Ibn 'Azib (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say to Hassân Ibn Thâbit: "Tell them your satires, -or following a variant satirize them-, and Gabriel is with you".
4542. Narrated 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) 'Urwa said: Hasan Ibn Thâbit was among those who slandered 'Aisha. I insulted her, when she said to me: "O son of my sister! Leave him, for he was defending the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)".
4544. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: Hasan Ibn Thabbit having asked the Messenger of God for permission to satirize Abu Sufyan, the Messenger of God answered him: "And how will you manage to may my family not be tarnished?". - "I pulled it out as one pulls a hair out of dough", he replied. Hassan said: The highest point of glory belongs to the descendants of Hashim and the daughter of Makhzum, but your father was only a slave. Here is his poem. Merits of Abu Hurayra Ad-Dawsi
4547. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: You claim that Abu Hurayra keeps reporting the hadiths of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), God will judge me (if I report anything else only the truth). I was a poor man and I served the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him) by contenting myself with what to make me subsist from day to day, while the Muhâjirûn took care of concluding business in the markets and the 'Ansar gave all their care to the upkeep of their properties. One day, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever of you spreads out his garment (thawb), will not forget anything he hears me say". So I stretched out my garment and left it like that until the end of his hadith, then I added it and from then on, I did not forget any hadith that I heard.
4548. 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her) said to 'Urwa Ibn Az-Zubayr: "Abu Hurayra does it not surprise you? began to report hadiths from the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) so that I could hear them. At that time, I said my supplications, and he left before I had him. If I could have reached him, I would have reminded him that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) does not articulate hadith quickly as you articulate them quickly”. Merits of those who participated in the battle of Badr and account of Hâtib Ibn 'Abi Balta'a
4550. 'Ali (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) sent me together with Az-Zubayr and Al-Miqdad, saying to us: " Walk to Rawdat Khakh (a place about twelve miles south of Medina) and there you will find a woman in a litter carrying a letter. Take it from her." We left on our running horses, until the place indicated where we found the woman, to whom we said: "Give us the letter that you have!". - "I don't have a letter", she answered. - "You are going to deliver the letter, suppress us, or we are going to search you!". (Word for word "we will take off your clothes"). So she pulled the letter from the cord that held her hair. Thereupon, we took away the letter to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him): now it was a letter from Hâtib Ibn 'Abi Balta'a to certain polytheists of Mecca, by which he gave them information on a project of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to Hâtib: "What is it, O Hâtib?". The culprit answered: - "Do not be in a hurry to judge me, Messenger of God; I had in Quraych only the situation of a reporter". Sufyan says: "He was their ally, not originally belonging to the tribe". Hâtib continued: "The other Muhâjirûn have, in Mecca, relatives by whom they can ensure the protection of their families; I, as the ties of blood did not give me this advantage, I wanted to gain recognition of Quraych of the rights which ensured the protection of my close relations. But I did not act by infidelity or by apostasy; I did not accept as a religion the infidelity after having embraced Islam". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) answered: "Verily, he spoke to you sincerely". 'Umar then said: "Sent of God, let me cut off the head of this hypocrite". The Messenger of God answered him: This man was present at the battle of Badr; how could you know that God would not have considered the fighters of Badr by saying to them: "Do whatever you want, because I forgive you in advance?". God, may His name be exalted and praised, has therefore revealed this verse: O you who believe! Do not take for allies My enemy and yours... Merits of Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari and Abu 'Amir Al-Ash'ari
4553. Abu Moûsa (may God be pleased with him) said: I was with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) when he was encamped at Al-Ji'râna between Mecca and Medina and Bilâl held him company. A Bedouin then came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "Are you not going to fulfill the promise you made to me, O Muhammad?". - "Rejoice at the good news, replied the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), (you will be satisfied)". - "It is very often, continued the Bedouin, that you announce the good news to me". Then advancing towards Abu Musa and Bilal, as if he were irritated, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Ah! He refuses the good news. Well! Accept it both ". Both said: "We accept". The Messenger of God had a vase full of water brought to him, washed his hands and his face in it, then, having spat in it, he said to them: "Drink it and pour it on your face and chest and rejoice in the good news". Both took the vase and did as the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) had told them. Then Oum Salama shouted to them from behind the curtain: "Give the rest to your mother". And they kept some for him.
4554. Abu Musa (may Allah be pleased with him) said: "When the Prophet (peace be upon him) had finished the battle of Hunayn, he sent Abu 'Amir at the head of an army towards 'Awtas. Abu 'Amir reached Durayd Ibn As-Simma, Durayd was killed in this encounter where his companions were routed, thank God". Abu Musa added: The Prophet had sent me with Abu 'Amir, a man of the Banu Jucham having shot an arrow hit Abu 'Amir at the knee where the arrow remained fixed. I came to Abu 'Amir and said to him: "O my uncle, who shot you?". - "Here, answered Abou 'Amir showing me Abou Moûsa, the one who shot at me to kill me". Abu Musa continued: I went towards this man who, as soon as he saw me, fled. I chased after him, shouting, "Aren't you ashamed to run away? You're not an Arab? Aren't you going to stop?" This man having then stopped, we exchanged two sword strokes and I killed him. Then I went to tell Abu 'Amir that God had killed his adversary. - "Take the arrow away from me", said Abu 'Amir to me. I took it off him and blood flowed from the wound. - "O son of my brother, said Abu 'Amir to me, greet the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) on my behalf and ask him to implore for me, Abu 'Amir, the forgiveness of God ". Abu 'Amir appointed me to replace him in his command, and shortly afterwards he died. On my return from this expedition, I entered the house of the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) who was lying on a bed of ropes covered with a carpet; the ropes of the bed had marked their imprints on the back and on the side of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God on him). I told him about our adventure and that of Abu 'Amir who asked him to implore God's forgiveness for him. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) asked for water, performed his ablutions and, raising his hands – until I could see the whiteness of his armpits – he exclaimed: "O Lord !Forgive 'Ubayd Abu 'Amir!". The Prophet then added these words: "Lord, on the Day of Resurrection, set him above many of your creatures - or people!". Then, as I asked him to implore God's forgiveness for me too, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) continued: "Lord! Forgive 'Abdullâh Ibn Qays his sins and, on the Day of Resurrection, ensure him an honorable entry!". Merits of the 'Ach'ariyyûn
4555. According to Abu Moûsa (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: I recognize the Ach'ariyyûn well by their voices when they recite the Koran on returning home. them at night. I also recognize (the places of) their dwellings when they recite the Koran, although I did not see the place where they camped by day. There is among them Hakîm who, when he meets horsemen - or according to a variant the enemy -, he says to them: "My companions order you to wait for them".
4556. Abu Moûsa (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: When the Ach'ariyyûn lacked food in an expedition or, being in Medina, they had only a few provisions to feed their families, they collected all their provisions in the same piece of cloth, then shared them out in equal parts by means of the same vase. They are mine and I am theirs. Merits of Ja'far Ibn 'Abi Talib, Asma bint 'Umays and the people of their boat
4558. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: We learned of the emigration of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) while we were in Yemen. I left immediately to join him with two of my older brothers: Abou Burda and Abou Ruhm. According to various versions he said: "with a few", "with fifty-two men of my tribe" or "with fifty-three men of my tribe". We embarked on a ship which threw us on the country of Negus, in Abyssinia. There we met Ja'far Ibn 'Abi Talib and his companions. Ja'far said, "The Messenger of God (peace be upon him) sent us here and ordered us to stay. So stay with us." We stayed together until the day we all set out. We joined the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) as he captured Khaybar. He gave us a share of the spoils, although he did not give to any of those who did not take part in the conquest of Khaybar, except the people of our ship, as well as Ja'far and His companions. Some people claimed to have preceded us in the Emigration (to Medina), we people embarked on the ship. Asma bint 'Umays, who had come with us, went to visit Hafsa, the wife of the Prophet (peace be upon him). She was among those who had emigrated to the Negus. While Asma was at Hafsa's house, 'Umar entered and, seeing Asma, asked who it was. - "It is, answered Hafsa, Asma bint 'Umays". - "Ah!, said 'Umar, it's the Abyssinian and the navy". - "Yes", replied Asma. - "We have preceded you in Emigration, resumed 'Umar and we have more rights over the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) than you". - "Not at all, cried Asma full of anger, you do not speak the truth, O 'Umar. By God! While you were with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), who nourished the hungry among you and instructed those who were ignorant among you, we were in the land - or according to a variant the land - of the infidels and enemies, in Abyssinia and this for the cause of God and his Messenger. make the most solemn oath that I will not taste any food or drink until I have told the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) these words that you have just said, then that we were suffering and that we were in danger. I want to tell all this to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and ask his opinion. By God! I will not lie, I will not invent anything and I won't exaggerate." When the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came, Asma said: "O Prophet of God, 'Umar has said such and such a thing". - "He has no more rights over me than you, said the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). He and his comrades made only one Emigration, while you other people embarked on the ship have made two". - "Abou Moûsa and his companions on board, adds Asma, came in crowds to find me and ask me about this hadith; because nothing in the world caused them greater joy and more legitimate pride than these words that the 'sent of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had spoken about them'. According to Abou Burda, Asma said: "I saw Abou Moûsa who came to ask me to repeat this hadith to him". Merits of the 'Ansar
4560. Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: It is about us as well as the Banû Salima and the Banû Hâritha, that this verse was revealed: When two of your groups thought of yielding! While God is their ally, to both of them! We would have liked that it was not revealed, because of the words of God, that His name is exalted and praised: Whereas God is an ally to them both!.
4561. Zayd Ibn Arqam (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Lord! Forgive the 'Ansar, the sons of the 'Ansar and the grandsons of the 'Ansar".
4563. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), seeing children and women returning from a wedding, got up and remained standing, then said to them: "I swear by God, that you are among the people who are dearest to me. I swear by God, that you are among the people who are dearest to me. -He means the 'Ansar".
4564. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him): A woman of the 'Ansâr came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who took her aside and said to her three times: " By Him who holds my soul in His hands, you are the dearest of beings to me".
4565. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him): The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The 'Ansâr are my intimate companions and my confidants. People will increase and their number will decrease. So esteem the one among them who does good and forgive the one among them who does evil". The best tribes of the 'Ansar
4566. According to Abu 'Usayd (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "the best tribes of the 'Ansar are first of all the Banû An-Najjâr, then the Banû 'Abd Al-'Achhal, the Banû Al-Hârith Ibn Al-khazraj and finally the Banû Sâ'ida, and in each tribe of the 'Ansâr, there is good". Sa'd then exclaimed: "I see that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) has placed others above us". - "But, they objected to him, he also placed you above many others". From the good company of the 'Ansar
4570. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: I was in the company of Jarîr Ibn 'Abdullâh Al-Bajalî during a trip and he served me, which I forbade him to do (Jarîr was older than Anas). He said: "I saw the 'Ansar doing such things for the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him), so I swore by God that I would never accompany any of them without the to serve". Invocation of the Prophet in favor of Ghifar and 'Aslam
4574. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "'Aslam may God preserve her, Ghifar, may God forgive her. This is not I didn't say it, but Almighty God."
4576. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "Ghifâr, God granted them forgiveness; 'Aslam, God delivered them from all danger. As for the 'Usayya, they were rebels against God and his Messenger". (The verbs following the names of the three tribes form paronyms: Ghifâr having the same root as ghafar "to forgive", etc.). Merits of the tribes: Ghifar, 'Aslam, Juhayna, 'Achja', Muzayna, Tamim, Dawas and Tayyi
4578. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God said: "Quraysh, the 'Ansar, Muzayna, Juhayna, 'Aslam, Ghifar and 'Achja' are my allies and they have no supporters other than God and his Messenger".
4579. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "'Aslam, Ghifâr, Muzayna and some of the Juhayna, or the Juhayna are better than the Banû Tamîm, the Banû 'Amr and the two allies 'Asad and Ghatfân".
4582. Narrative reported from Abu Bakra (may God be pleased with him): Al-'Aqra' Ibn Hâbis came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "These are only the thieves of the pilgrims who pledged allegiance to you among 'Aslam, Ghifâr, Muzayna (I also believe that he mentioned Juhayna, it was the transmitter Muhammad who doubted it)". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "And if 'Aslam, Ghifâr, Muzayna and - I believe - Juhayna were worth more than the Banû Tamîm, the Banû 'Amr, the Banû 'Asad and the Banû Ghatfân, would the people of these last tribes be lost and ruined?". - A man then says: "Yes". - "By Him who holds my soul in His hands, they are better, continued the Prophet, than they (the Banû Tamîm, the Banû 'Amr, the Banû 'Asad and the Banû Ghatfân)".
4585. 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb (may God be pleased with him) said: "The first alms which rejoiced the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and his companions, was that made by the tribe of Tayyi', which I myself brought to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)".
4586. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: At-Tufayl and his companions came to the Prophet and said to him: "O Messenger of God! The tribe of Daws became disbelieving and refused to believe; invoke against them God's wrath!". - "Daws is ruined", they say. While the Prophet said: "Lord! Lead Daws to the right path and bring her to Islam".
4587. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: I have never ceased to love the Banû Tamîm since I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say three things to them. about. I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "They will be the most valiant of my Community against the Antichrist". When the Banû Tamîm having brought their legal alms, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "These are the alms of a people of ours". And, 'Aisha having a captive belonging to this tribe, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to her: "Free her, for she is a descendant of Ishmael". Merits of Quraysh Women
4589. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) said: "Among the best women who have ridden a camel are the pious women of Quraysh - and according to another version: the women of Quraych. They are the most tender towards the little orphans; they are also the best housekeepers of their husband's funds". Fraternization of the Prophet among his companions
4593. Narrative reported according to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him): According to 'Asim: I said to Anas (may God be pleased with him): "Did you know that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had said: No covenant (of brotherhood) in Islam". - "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), answered Anas, established the bond of brotherhood between the 'Ansar and the Quraychites in his residence". Merits of Companions, Followers and Followers
4597. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: A time will come when, when a troop will be on an expedition, it will be requested to those who compose it: "Is there anyone among you who has seen the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)?". - "Yes", they will answer. And then the victory will be won. Then another time will come when a troop will go on an expedition, those who compose it will also be asked: "Is there anyone among you who has frequented the companions of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him)?". - "Yes", they will answer. And then the victory will be won. Then another time will come when a troop will be on an expedition, those who compose it will be asked: "Is there anyone among you who has frequented those who had frequented the companions of the Messenger of God (peace and blessing of God upon him)?". - "Yes", they will answer. And then the victory will be won.
4599. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The best of men are those of my century; below of them will be those who will follow them and those who will come after them will be inferior to the latter. Then there will be people whose testimony will precede the oath and the oath the testimony".
4603. Narrated 'Imrân Ibn Husayn ( رضي الله عنهما ) the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The best among you are those of my century; below them will be those who follow them and those who come after them will be even inferior to the latter". - "I do not know, adds 'Imrân, if, after his century, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) did not mention two or three centuries". - "After them, said the Prophet, will come people who will testify without being asked for testimonies, who will be treacherous and untrustworthy, who will make vows that they will not keep and who will be puffed up with fat". From the hadith: "After a hundred years, no one who lives now will survive"
4605. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: Towards the end of his life, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) gave us the 'isha (evening) prayer on a certain night , and after having made the final greeting, he said to us: "Do you see this night? After the passage of a hundred years, no one who currently lives on the earth will be alive". Ibn 'Umar continued: "Hearing this, the people were frightened talking about what might happen after a hundred years, although the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) means by this: No being human being who currently lives on earth will not survive, that is to say after the end of this century (that of the companions)". Prohibition of insulting companions
4611. According to Abu Sa'id (may God be pleased with him), There was a misunderstanding between Khalid Ibn Al-Walid and 'Abdourrahman Ibn 'Awf as Khalid insulted the other; the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Do not insult any of my companions, for if one of you spends (in alms) an amount equal to a heap of gold of the volume of the mount 'Uhud he will not attain (the same merit as) one of them who gave a mudd or even half a mudd". Tale of the liar of Thaqif and his tyrant
4617. Narrative reported from 'Asmâ' bint 'Abi Bakr ( رضي الله عنهما ): According to Abu Nawfal, Al-Hajjâj said to Asma bint 'Abi Bakr: "What do you think of what I have just done? with the enemy of God?". She answered him: "I think that you spoiled his worldly life for him and that he spoiled your future life for you. I was informed that you called ('Abdullâh Ibn Az-Zubayr) son of Dhât an-nitâqayn woman with two belts). reach of animals. As for the second, it was none other than that which every woman carries and cannot dispense with. Now the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) told us that at Thaqif finds himself a liar and a tyrant. As for the liar, we have already recognized him, and the tyrant, I do not think he is any other than you". Al-Hajjâj left her without any reply. Merits of Persia
4618. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "If religion were in the Pleiad, a Persian would have caught it; - and according to another version, one of the Persians would certainly have found it". The hadith: "Men are like a herd of a hundred camels where you can't find a good mount"
4620. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "Men are like a herd of a hundred camels, where not a single servant is found of mount". The Authentic of Muslim 45 - Kindness, Generosity, and Morals Filial piety and the one who deserves it the most
4621. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), a man came to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "Who is the person who most deserves my good company? ". - "Your mother", he answered. - "And who next?". - "Your mother". - "And who next?". - "Your mother". - "And who next?". - "Your father".
4623. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: A man came to ask the Prophet (peace be upon him) permission to go to the holy war: - "Are your two parents still alive? ?" asked the Prophet. - "Yes", replied the man. - "Well! Be kind and pious to them, this is your jihad". Filial piety trumps extra or other prayers
4625. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him): One day, Jurayj was praying in a turret when his mother came to call him. Humayd said: Abu Rafi' reported to us that Abu Hurayra had described, according to the Prophet (peace be upon him) how the mother placed her palm on her eyebrow and then raised her head and addressed him in these words: "Jurayj I am your mother. Answer me!". Jurayj, who was in full prayer, said to himself: "Lord! Will I answer my mother or will I continue my prayer?". He chooses, in fact, to continue his prayer. The mother went away then came back and the same scene took place. - "Lord!, cried the mother then, here is my son Jurayj. showed the prostitutes". And he added that if she had called on God to test him, He would have answered her. A shepherd who took refuge in the turret of Jurayj met a woman leaving the village, slept with her and she had a child. Asked about the father of the child, she replied in these terms: "He is the owner of this turret". They arrived with their axes and shovels short and called to him, Jurayj was still absorbed in his prayer and did not answer them. They then began to demolish its turret. With that, he came down and asked the people why they acted like that. They replied, "Ask this one." (pointing to the woman). He smiled, ran his hand over the infant's hair and said, "Who is your father?" - "It's the shepherd", answered the child. - "We are going, said the people, to build you a gold and silver turret in place of the one we demolished". - "No, he replied, in clay only as it was". He then went up (to continue his prayer). Maintenance of the family relationship and prohibition to break it
4634. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: God created the beings and when he had completed the Creation, the bond of kinship arose and said: "This is the abode of one who seeks refuge from the breaking of kinship ties?". - "Yes, answered God, will you not be satisfied that I bring closer to Me the one who maintains you and that I break with the one who breaks you?". - "Certainly yes, Lord", he answered. - "Well! I grant it to you", resumed God. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) added: Recite these Quranic verses if you want: If you turn away, do you not risk sowing corruption on earth and breaking your family ties? These are the ones whom God has cursed, deafened and blinded their eyes. Don't they meditate on the Koran? Or are there padlocks on their hearts?
4635. Narrated 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: The kinship hangs on the Throne and she says: "He who maintains me, God will bring him closer to Him and whoever breaks me, God will break with him".
4636. According to Jubayr Ibn Mut'im (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Never will he enter Paradise who breaks his ties of kinship".
4638. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: good reputation survives him, maintains his family ties". Prohibition to envy each other, to hate each other and to conceive enmity against one's co-religionists
4641. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Do not hate each other, do not envy each other and conceive no enmity against one another. Be, O servants of God, like brothers. It is not lawful for a Muslim to break with his co-religionist beyond three days. Prohibition to flee from each other beyond three days without a valid excuse
4643. According to Abu 'Ayyûb Al-Ansâri (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "It is not lawful for a man to break with his co-religionist beyond three nights and that when they meet, each turns away from the other; however, the best of them is the one who greets the other first". Prohibition of suspicion, espionage, rivalry and Najch (malicious one-upmanship)
4646. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Beware of suspicion, for it is the most deceitful of words; do not seek to reveal each other's secrets, do not spy on each other, do not compete with each other, do not envy each other, do not hate each other and do not conceive not enmity against your co-religionists and be, O servants of God, like brothers. Reward of the Believer afflicted with an evil, even by a prick of a thorn
4662. From 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her) said: "I have never seen anyone experiencing such severe suffering more than the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)" .
4663. Ibn Mas'ud (may God be pleased with him) said: I visited the Prophet (peace be upon him) when he had a fever. I touched him with my hand and said to him: "O Messenger of God! You have a high fever". - "Certainly yes, answered the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him), the fever which I have is the double of the fever which is likely to have a man (ordinary) among you". - "And you will also have a double reward", I resumed. - "Yes, replied the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), no Muslim will suffer from any inconvenience, illness or anything else, without God remitting his sins one after another, just like the tree that loses its leaves".
4664. According to 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her), I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "No evil reaches the Muslim - even 'a simple prick of a thorn - without God granting him, on the other hand, an additional grade in Paradise and remitting a sin to him'.
4670. According to Abu Sa'id (may God be pleased with him), He heard the Prophet (peace be upon him) say: "No evil befalls a Muslim, be it chronic pain, fatigue, illness, sadness or even a melancholy that beats him down, without it serving him as expiation for his sins".
4671. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) says: After the revelation of the verse: 'Whoever does evil will be rewarded for it', the Muslims were deeply troubled. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then addressed them in these terms: "Try to be moderate and sincere as much as possible; for, any evil experienced by the Muslim will be considered as an expiation even if it is a simple prick of a thorn".
4673. 'Atâ' Ibn 'Abî Rabâh reports that Ibn 'Abbas said to him: "Do you want me to show you a woman who will be guests of Paradise?". - "Certainly yes", I replied. – Well, he continued, it is this black woman who came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "I suffer from epilepsy and I therefore show my nakedness, implore God in my favor". - "If, he replied, you want to be patient, you will go to Paradise; but if you prefer that I implore God to heal you, I will do it". - "I prefer to take my pain in patience, she resumed; but implore God so that I do not show my nudity". The Prophet then made this supplication in his favour. prohibition of injustice
4676. Narrated 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Injustice will result in darkness on the Day of Resurrection".
4677. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Muslim is the brother of his co-religionist; he must neither oppress him nor abandon him. He who helps his co-religionist, God will help him. He who delivers a Muslim from an affliction, God will deliver him from one of the afflictions of the Day of Resurrection. He who erases the faults of a Muslim, God will erase his faults on the Day of Resurrection".
4680. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "God grants respite to the unjust; but when He decides that he is time to chastise him, He does not let him escape". Then, the Prophet recited this verse: Such is the severity of the grip of your Lord when He smites the cities when they are unjust. His punishment is very painful and very hard Support the co-religionist, whether he is just or not
4681. According to Jâbir (may God be pleased): Two young men, one of the Muhâjirûn and the other of the 'Ansâr, quarreled. Then each one called his clan to his aid: the young man from the 'Ansâr shouted,' To me the 'Ansâr!', And the other from the Muhâjirûn shouted, 'To me the Muhâjirûn.' The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came out and said, "What do these anti-Islamic processes mean?" As he was told that one of them had spanked the other. He added: "It is nothing. Man must support his fellow believer whether he is oppressive or oppressed. If he is oppressive, he must turn him away from injustice. That is how he supports him. And if he finds it hurt, let him come to his aid. " Mutual mercy of Muslims among themselves, their affection and mutual assistance
4684. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Muslim must be towards his co-religionist as the materials of a building are between them which reinforce each other. each other".
4685. According to An-Nu'mân Ibn Bachîr (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Muslims are, in kindness, affection and the sympathy which exists between them like a body which, when one of its members suffers, sees all the rest of its members sharing with it insomnia and fever". We must treat the perverts with pity
4693. According to 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her), a man asked for audience with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who said: "Let him in. What an abominable fellow he is". When this man entered, the Prophet spoke kindly to him. As soon as this man left, 'A'isha exclaimed: "O Messenger of God, you said about this man what you said and then you spoke to him kindly". - "O 'Aisha, replied the Messenger of God, the man who, on the Day of Resurrection, will occupy the worst rank in the eyes of God, is the one from whom men depart in fear of his wickedness". Deserve of sweetness
4697. Narrated 'Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (may God be pleased with her), the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "O 'Aisha, God is Gentle and He loves gentleness. He rewards for gentleness what He does not reward for violence and what He does not reward for anything." The one whom the Prophet curses, insults or against whom he invokes God, when he does not deserve it, will be rewarded
4706. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Lord! I am a human being. Lord! If I insult, I curse or whip a Muslim, make my act a source of purification and mercy for him". Permission for some kind of lies
4717. According to 'Umm Kulthûm bint 'Uqba (may God be pleased with her), she heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) say: "He is not a liar who tries to reconcile people by saying good words (and attributing them to someone who did not say them in truth), since he spreads good". Prohibition of gossip
4718. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Do you want me to tell you what it is that al-'ada is slander", and that Muhammad (peace and blessings of God be upon him) also said: "The man who insists on being truthful ends up being registered with God among the truthful. On the other hand, the man who never ceases to lie ends up being registered with God among the liars". Deserving of anger control and how to achieve it
4723. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: “The strong man is not one who is characterized by physical strength. It is rather the one who manages to control his anger ".
4725. Sulaymân Ibn Surad (may God be pleased with him) said: Two men insulted each other in the presence of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). One of them had red eyes and swollen neck veins. - "I know, then said the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), a formula which, if he pronounces it, the trouble he experiences will be dissipated: "I take refuge with God against Satan the stoned" - "Do you find any trace of madness on me?", asked the man.
4728. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When one of you fights with his co-religionist, let him avoid hitting him on the the face". A man passing in the mosque, in a market or in other places crowded with people, must hold his weapon by the point
4736. Jabir (may God be pleased with him) said: A man passed through the mosque holding arrows whose tips could be seen. The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said to him: "Hold them by the points (so as not to scratch a Muslim)".
4739. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "If ever one of you passes through an assembly or in a market holding arrows, let him hold them by the points, let him hold them by the points, let him hold them by the points (lest he hurt someone)". It is forbidden to brandish a weapon against a Muslim
4741. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), Abu Al-Qâsim (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever brandishes a piece of iron against his co-religionist, will be cursed by the angels until what he leaves, were he his first brother". Recommendation to be benevolent and beneficent towards the neighbor and to do good to him
4756. Narrated 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), I heard the Prophet (peace be upon him) say: "Gabriel keeps advising me to be kind to the neighbour, so much so that I thought he would put him on the list of heirs".
4757. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: thought he would put him on the list of heirs". Intercession is recommended on a non-prohibited matter
4761. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: When someone came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) for some personal matter, he addressed the assistants of his assembly saying: "Intercede with others (in his favour), you will be rewarded for it and God causes His Prophet to say with his tongue, what He wills". Recommendation to keep company with the virtuous and avoid evil types
4762. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The company of the virtuous man and that of the perverse man are respectively comparable to that of the musk merchant and to that of the blacksmith. The one who possesses the musk, either he gives it to you, or you buy it from him or you smell a beautiful odor near him, while the blacksmith, he burn your clothes or you smell an unpleasant odor near him". Merit of kindness to girls
4763. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: A woman accompanied by her two daughters came to find me and asked me for alms. But, I only had one date. So I gave it to him. The woman took the date and shared it between her two daughters without eating it. Then she got up and left, with her two daughters. The Prophet (peace be upon him) then came in, and I told him about it. He then said: "He who has daughters, and who raises them duly, will be preserved from the Fire". Merit of the one who loses a child and resigns himself with conviction to this reward
4766. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: No Muslim from whom death has taken away three children, will not be touched by the fire of hell, unless it is for the execution of the oath (i.e. to fulfill what God mentioned in His Book: "There is none among you who will not pass through the Hell").
4768. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him), A woman came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God! Men hear your words all the time. So set aside a day for us to gather at your house so that you teach us what God has taught you". The Prophet then said to him: "Gather yourselves on such and such a day". They gathered together and the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came to them and taught them the knowledge with which God endowed him. Then he added: "Any Muslim woman who loses three children will be protected from Hell". A woman then asked: "And likewise if they are two and two and two". The Prophet then agreed: "And likewise if they are two and two and two". When God loves a Server, He imposes His love on the other Servers
4772. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: When God loves a servant, He says to Gabriel: "I love so and so, love -the". And Gabriel to love this man and to announce in heaven: "God loves so and so, so love him". And the inhabitants of heaven to love him. Then, one imposes one's affection on the earth. And when God hates a servant, He calls Gabriel and says to him: "I hate so-and-so, hate him". And Gabriel to hate this man and to announce among the inhabitants of heaven: "God hates so-and-so, therefore hate him". And the inhabitants of heaven to hate him. Then, one imposes one's hatred on the earth. The man will be with those he loves
4775. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), a Bedouin asked the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) about the Supreme Hour and asked him when it would take place. - "And what have you prepared for this moment?" asked the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "Nothing, replied the man, if not the love I have for God and for His envoy". - "Well!, resumed the Prophet, you will be with those whom you loved".
4779. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), a man came to find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God! you of a man who loves people and who did not reach them (by imitating good works)?”. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "Man will be with those he loved". The authentic of Muslim 46 - Destiny Creation of the son of Adam, his share of the goods of this world, his happiness and his misfortune
4781. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the sincere and the truthful, said to us: "The creation of every man begins by the agglomeration of the blood in the uterus of his mother for forty days to form an adhesion which, after another forty days, is transformed into an embryo.Forty days later, God sends an Angel to him to breathe the order to write down four things (as to the foetus), namely: its share of the goods in the here below, the duration of its life, its works and its happy or unhappy destiny. God, the One, it happens that man has the conduct of the elect until the space of a single cubit separates him from Paradise, but then what has been written for him intervenes and he conducts himself as a damned deserving of Hell. It happens, on the other hand, that man has the behavior of the damned until the space of a single cubit separates him from Hell. But then what has been written to him intervenes and he behaves like a chosen one and therefore enters Paradise".
4785. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Certainly God - to Him the power and the glory - entrusted the uterus to an Angel who said, "Lord! This is a drop of sperm; Lord! This is an adhesion; Lord! This is an embryo". When God then wants to create a being, the Angel asks: "Will it be a male or a female, a miserable or a happy? What will be his share of the goods of this world? What will be the end of his life?". And all of this is recorded while he is still in the womb.
4786. 'Ali (may God be pleased with him) said: While we were attending a funeral at Bâqi' Al-Gharqad, the Prophet (peace be upon him) came to us. He sat down and we sat down around him. Then, lowering his head, he began to strike the ground with a stick which he held in his hand and said: "There is not one of you, or any living soul, whose place has not been fixed beforehand in Paradise or in Hell, and whose happy or unhappy destiny has not been decided". One of the assistants then asked: "In this case, O Messenger of God, should we not stick to what has been predestined for us and renounce all personal action". The Prophet then replied: "He who is destined to be of the number of the blessed, will (fatally) be led to do the deeds of the blessed, while he who is destined to be of the number of the reprobate, will (fatally) be led to do the acts of the blessed. deeds of the reprobate. To the blessed, the deeds of the blessed will be made easy; and to the reprobate, the deeds of the reprobate will be made easy." Then he recited this verse: He who gives and fears (God) and declares truthfully the most beautiful reward We will facilitate the way to him to the greatest happiness. And as for the one who is stingy, dispenses (from the worship of God) and deceives the most beautiful reward, We will facilitate the way for him to the greatest difficulty.
4789. According to Imrân Ibn Husayn ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God was asked if those who were destined for Paradise could be recognized from those who were destined for Hell, the Prophet replied: " Yes. " "But then why do men work?" They asked. - "Everyone will be facilitated by the work for which he was created," replied the Prophet. Discussion between Adam and Moses
4793. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Adam and Moses led the following discussion: - "You, said Moses, you are our father who has caused our loss and deprivation and who brought us out of Paradise? - "O Moses, replied Adam, you whom God has chosen by preference to address His words directly to you and to whom He has written with His hand (the Tablets). Do you dare to blame me for something that God has prescribed forty years before he created me?". - "Adam, repeated the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) twice, thus refuted Moses". The son of Adam was inscribed his share of adultery and other sins
4801. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "God has registered for the son of Adam his share of adultery which he will inevitably commit from one of the following ways: the adultery of the eyes is the lascivious gaze and that of the tongue is the utterance of licentious words. The heart-soul loves and desires, but it is the genitals which carry it out or not". Every newborn comes into the world on the state of primordial nature
4803. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "No child is born except according to the state of the primordial nature (Islam). These are his father and mother who make him a Jew, a Christian or a Magus, just like a camel gives birth to young calves with a perfect body and limbs, have you ever seen one, a calf without ears or without a nose?”.
4808. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: Asked about the children of the polytheists, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "God knows better than anyone what their works would have been" . The authenticity of Muslim 47 - Science Prohibition of emphasizing verses lending to various interpretations. Warning to those who do it and prohibition against disagreeing about its verses
4817. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) recited this verse: It is He who sent down the Book to you: he there are unequivocal verses, which are the basis of the Book and other verses which can lend themselves to various interpretations. People, therefore, who have a bewilderment in their hearts, emphasize the ambiguous verses, seeking dissension by trying to find an interpretation for them, when no one knows the interpretation except God. But those who are well rooted in science say: "We believe in it: it is all from our Lord!" But only the clever remember that. And, adds 'A'isha, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said again: "When you see those who emphasize the verses which can be ambiguous, they will be those that God has designated in this verse: Take heed therefore of them".
4819. According to Jundab Ibn 'Abdullâh Al-Bajali (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God said: "Recite the Koran as long as you agree (on its meanings), but stop reciting once you find yourself in disagreement (on subtle meanings that may lead to confusion or cause sedition)". The fierce adversary
4821. Narrated 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: nothing except to spread his knowledge and show his strength of argument)". The way of Jews and Christians will be followed
4822. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "You would follow the path of those who preceded you span by span and cubit by cubit, even if they entered a lizard hole, you would have followed them". - "O Messenger of God, we exclaimed, is it the Jews and the Christians?". - "And then, he replied, from whom if not?". Disappearance of science, appearance of ignorance and troubles towards the end of the world
4824. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Among the precursory signs of the advent of the Supreme Hour: the disappearance of science , the triumph of ignorance, the consumption of intoxicating liquors and the spread of adultery".
4826. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Among the precursory signs of the advent of the Supreme Hour: the disappearance of science, the spread of ignorance and the multiplicity of massacres".
4827. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: will increase; and Al-Haraj will multiply". - "O Messenger of God, what is Al-Haraj?". - "It is, the murder", he answered.
4828. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Amr Ibn Al-'As ( رضي الله عنهما ), I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "God will not suddenly take knowledge away from you , but He will deprive you of it by calling the scholars back to Him, so that when there are no more scholars left, the ignorant will be consulted. they others". The authentic Muslim 48 - Invocation, evocations, repentance and request for forgiveness Incitement to evoke God, the Most High
4832. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: God, to Him the power and the glory, said: "I am like My servant M' I will be with him whenever he mentions Me so if he mentions Me in his inward I will mention him in My inward, if he mentions Me in an assembly I will mention him in a better assembly. If he approaches Me a span, I will approach him a cubit, and if he approaches Me a cubit, I will approach him a fathom and if he comes towards Me with small steps, I will go towards him with accelerated steps". Some Names of God and Merit of the One Who Memorizes Them
4835. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "God has ninety-nine names, whoever memorizes them will enter Paradise ". And he added: "God is Unique and He likes the odd number". Determination in invocations. It is blameworthy to say: "If you want"
4837. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: When one of you invokes God, let him be resolute in his requests; that he invokes God saying: "Lord! If You want, give me", because nothing can force God to act against His will.
4838. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: When one of you invokes God, do not say: "Lord ! Forgive me if You will", but let him rather be resolute in his invocation, and make great demands (like entering Heaven or being forgiven), because nothing is in the beyond the power of God. It is forbidden to wish for death when one is struck by misfortune
4840. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Let none of you wish death when misfortune strikes him. If he cannot help it, then let him say, "Lord! Let me live as long as life is better (than death) for me, and let me die if death is better (than death). life) for me".
4842. According to Khabbab (may God be pleased with him), Qays Ibn 'Abi Hâzim said: We visited Khabbab, who had just been cauterized seven times in his stomach. - "If, he told us, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had not forbidden us to wish death, I would have wished it".
4843. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Never wish death and never invoke God to bring you closer to it . It will prevent the believer from doing good deeds. The believer's life is prolonged only for his good." He who loves to meet God, God loves his meeting and he who is reluctant to meet God, God is reluctant to meet him
4844. According to 'Ubâda Ibn As-Sâmit (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who loves to meet God, God loves to meet him; he who is reluctant to meet God, God is reluctant to meet him".
4845. Narrated 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Whoever loves to meet God, God loves to meet him; whoever is reluctant to meet God, God is loath to meet him." I said: "O Messenger of God! Is it a question of the horror we feel towards death? Well! We all have the same horror of death". ('Aïcha asks if the very human horror of death was also considered as repugnance to the encounter with God?). The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) replied: "Not exactly. It should rather be understood by this that when the believer is announced who is about to die, the mercy, grace and Paradise of God, wishes then to meet God and God also desires to meet him. As for the infidel, at the time of death, as he is told of God's chastisement and His punishments, he is reluctant to meet God and God is also reluctant to meet him".
4848. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Whoever loves to meet God, God loves to meet him; whoever is reluctant to meet God, God is repugnant to meet him". It is blameworthy to call on God to hasten the punishment here below
4853. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) visited a Muslim who had weakened until he became like a chicken. Then the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Were you making a specific invocation or a certain request (to God)?". And the man answered: "Yes! I said: Lord! If ever You preserve me a punishment in the hereafter, anticipate it to me here below (estimating an attenuated horror)". On this, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Glory and purity to God! You cannot bear it. Why then do not you say: Lord! also go to the hereafter, and protect us from the punishment of the Fire Then the Prophet invoked God on his behalf and the man was healed Merit of the assemblies where God is mentioned
4854. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: God - the Exalted - has angels out of rank, who prowl through all the paths in search of assemblies where God is mentioned. When they find one of these assemblies, they sit down with the faithful and, with their wings, call each other until they fill the space comprised below them and up to to the nearest heaven. When they (the members of the assembly) separate, the angels ascend to heaven and, although He knows better than them, their Lord to Himself the power and the glory, asks them: "From where are you coming?". - "From some of Your servants on earth who glorify You, testify to Your greatness and Your uniqueness, praise You and ask You". - "What do they ask of Me?". - "They ask You for Your Paradise". - "Have they seen My Paradise?". - "No, oh Lord, they did not see it". - "What would it be if they had seen him?". - "And they seek refuge with You". - "Against what do they take refuge with Me?". - "Against Hell". - "Have they seen My Hell?". - "No, oh Lord, they did not see it". - "And if they had seen it, God continues, what would it be then?". - "And they ask You to forgive them". Then God said to them: "I have forgiven them, I have heard them and I have sheltered them from what they have asked Me for refuge from". Then the angels reply, "But, Lord, there is such a one among them who commits many sins; he just passed by and sat down among them." And God responds: "I have forgiven him too, because he who sits down with such men would no longer be unhappy". Merit of the testimony of the unity of God, glorification and invocations
4857. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Whoever repeats a hundred times in one day: "There is no other deity apart from God, the Unique; He has no partner; His is kingship and His is praise and He is Omnipotent", will obtain a reward equivalent to that attributed to the freeing of ten slaves; one hundred good deeds will be recorded on his account, and one hundred bad ones will be erased. These words will also be for him a defense against Satan, until nightfall of that day. No one has done anything more meritorious than this Believer, except the one who has repeated this invocation even more. Whoever repeats this formula a hundred times a day: "Purity and praise to God", will have all his faults erased, even if they are comparable to the foam of the sea.
4859. According to Abu Ayyûb Al-Ansâri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Whoever repeats this formula ten times: "There is no other deity in part of God, the Unique; He has no partner; His is royalty and His is praise and He is Omnipotent", will receive the same reward as that granted to the freer of four slaves of the descent of Ishmael.
4860. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: There are two light words to pronounce, heavy in the balance (on the Day of Resurrection) and loved by Clement; they are: "Glory and praise to God" and "Glory to God, the Great". Recommendation to evoke God in a low voice
4873. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: During a journey that we were making with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the faithful were doing takbîr (saying: God is Great) at high voice. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said to them: "O men! Lower your voices by doing the takbîr and by invoking God, you do not invoke the deaf or the absent but you invoke an Audient, One Near and He is with you". I was behind him pronouncing these words: "There is neither power nor strength but in God". He then added: "O 'Abdullâh Ibn Qays! Do you not want me to direct you to one of the treasures of Paradise?". - "Yes, O Messenger of God". - "Well, say: There is neither strength nor power except in God".
4876. According to Abu Bakr As-Siddiq (may God be pleased with him), he said to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "Teach me an invocation that I will say while praying". - "Say," replied the Prophet: "Lord! I have committed grave iniquities (and according to Qutayba many iniquities) against myself and none other than You forgives sins. Grant me forgiveness from You and have mercy on me, for You are the Forgiving, the Merciful". Take refuge with God from impotence and laziness and others
4878. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Lord! I take refuge with You from impotence, laziness, cowardice, old age and avarice. I take refuge with You from the torments of the grave and from the trials of life and death".
4880. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) took refuge with God against bad fate, the harshness of misery (caused by the serious sins), the rejoicing of enemies and the onslaught of misfortune". What to say before sleeping
4884. According to Al-Barâ' Ibn 'Azib (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: When you go to bed, do your minor ablutions as you do before proceeding to the prayer and lay down on your right side and say: "Lord! I have turned my face towards You, I entrust myself totally to You, I rely on You, out of desire and fear of You . Neither assistance nor refuge can be found which saves me from You except in You. I believe in the Book which You have revealed and in the Prophet whom You have sent". May these words be the last you say before going to sleep. Thus, if you come to die during the night, you will die in the state of primordial nature. Al-Bara' then adds: I repeated them to remember them. I said, 'I believe in Your Messenger' whom You sent.' He interrupted me saying, 'Say rather: I believe in Your Prophet whom You sent.'
4889. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: When one of you is about to sleep, let him dust his bed with the pan of his 'izâr and that he pronounces the name of God, because he does not know what is likely to be in his bed. Then let him lie on his right side and say: "Glory to You, my Lord! It is thanks to You that I lay my side and it is thanks to You that I raise it. If You take my soul ( by decreeing my death), have mercy on her; if You leave her to me (by granting me life until the following day), protect her by means of that with which You protect Your righteous servants". Take refuge with God from the evil done and from the evil that one has not done
4894. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Lord! It is to You that I have submitted myself; it is in You that I have absolute faith. It is to You that I entrust all my affairs; it is to You that I repent, it is thanks to You that I fight my adversaries. I take refuge with Your greatness, There is no other deity apart from You, so that You do not mislead me. You are the Living One who does not die, while the jinns and men all die".
4896. According to Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made the following invocation: "Lord! Forgive me my faults, my ignorance and my immoderation and what You know of me better than I do. Lord! Forgive me the faults that I commit in joking or in speaking seriously, my faults committed inadvertently and those committed deliberately, for all these are my lot. Lord! Forgive me my past faults and future, what I do in secret and what I do in public, and what You know about me better than I do. You are the One who advances everything and delays everything and You are Omnipotent".
4903. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There is no god except God, the Unique; He supported His troops; granted victory to His servant (this is the Prophet); He alone defeated the Allies. Nothing will remain after Him." Glorification of God at the beginning of the day and before sleeping
4906. According to 'Ali (may God be pleased with him), Fatima complained of a pain that the use of the millstone caused her hands. As captives had just been brought to the Prophet (peace be upon him), she went to his house. But she did not find him and found 'Aisha to whom she told the thing. When the Prophet (peace be upon him) returned, 'Aisha informed him of Fatima's visit and her request (to offer him a slave). The Prophet (peace be upon him) came to us as we were about to go to bed. We were about to get up, when he said to us: "Stay in your places". Then he sat down between us (Fâtima and me) until I felt the coldness of his feet against my chest. - "Well!, he said, I will tell you something that is better than what you asked for. When you go to bed, proclaim the greatness of God thirty-four times; glorify Him thirty-three times and praise Him thirty-three times. It will be better for you than a servant". Recommendation to invoke God during the cockcrow
4908. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "When you hear the cock crow, ask God for His mercy; for the cock has seen an angel; but when you hear the braying of the donkey, take refuge with God from Satan; for the donkey has seen a devil". Summon during an affliction
4909. According to Ibn 'Abbas ( رضي الله عنهما ), In times of affliction, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There is no god but God, the Great, the Patient. There is no god but God, the Lord of the Supreme Throne. There is no god but God, the Lord of the heavens and the earth, the Lord of the Magnificent Throne." . God hears the one who calls on Him unless he hastens and says: "I called but I had not been answered"
4916. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Every Servant will be answered unless he shows no impatience saying: “ I invoked, but I was not answered". The poor form the majority of the elect of Heaven, the women form the majority of the reprobate of Hell and they are a cause of temptation
4919. According to Usâma Ibn Zayd ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: “I stood at the gate of Paradise and noticed that the poor form the majority of his elect; as for the fortunate, they were kept at the gate, except those who are destined for Hell among them, the order was given to throw them in. I stood at the gate of Hell and noticed that there was populated by women.
4921. According to 'Imrân Ibn Husayn ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Compared to the elect of Paradise, women are in the minority".
4923. According to Usâma Ibn Zayd ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "I have not left behind me a cause of temptation more fatal to men than women". Story of the people of the cave and solicitation evoking good works
4926. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: While three men were on the way, they were surprised by a rain and they took refuge in a cave located within a mountain. But a boulder, collapsing, closed the exit of the grotto to them. Some said to others: "Invoke God and tell Him the good works you have done in view of His face, it may be that God removes this rock (from your path).". One of them said: "O Lord! I had two elderly parents, my wife and small children. to give milk first to my father and my mother before giving my little ones to drink. One day, having gone a little far in search of pasture, I came back so late that I found my father and my mother I began to milk the sheep as usual and brought the jug of milk and stood with them. children, though these were crying and starving at my feet. They and I remained in this condition until dawn. O Lord! Since You know that I have done all this for Your sight, practice give us an opening that allows us to see the sky". Then the rock was pushed aside slightly without them being able to get out. The second then said: "O Lord! I loved one of my cousins with the keenest affection that a man can feel for a woman. When I made her proposals, she refused before the payment of a hundred dinars. I had great difficulty in collecting the requested sum which I offered her. When I was about to make love with her, she said to me: "O servant of God! Fear God; do not deflower me unless it is lawful". Immediately, I withdrew leaving her. Since You know that I have done all this in view of Your face, Lord, give us a way out". And the rock to deviate a little more. The third said: "O Lord! I hired a worker for a faraq (Medinian measure containing three sâ') of rice. When he finished his work, he said to me: "Give me my due". When I paid it to him, he refused to receive it, for he considered it minimal. So I took this faraq and sowed it, and with its product, I bought oxen and I hired a shepherd. Later, this worker came to me and told me : 'Fear God and give me my due.' - 'Take away,' I replied, 'these oxen with their shepherd, for all that is yours'. - 'Fear God and do not make fun of me?' he replied. - 'I am not making fun of you,' I said to him, 'all that is well with you'. And the worker to take the oxen and leave. Lord! Since You know that I do all this for Your face, deliver us". God then pushed the rock completely aside. The authenticity of Muslim 49 - Repentance Incitement to repentance. joy of repentance
4929. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: God is more pleased with the repentance of His servant than a man finding in a perilous desert and having with him his mount which carries his food and his drink, who, having fallen asleep, wakes up to note the loss of his mount and who by vainly employing himself in his search until experiencing a intolerable thirst, says to himself: "I am going to return to the same place where I was to sleep there until I die", returns and puts his head on his elbow to sleep in expectation of death, and who once awakened , finds his camel with him with his food, drink and food. God, indeed, rejoices in the repentance of His believing servant more than this man who has found his horse and his food.
4932. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: God is happier with the repentance of His servant when he returns to Him than the one of you who, in a desert, straddled his horse who got lost from him, taking his food and his drink and who, in despair, lay down in the shade of a tree, when suddenly his horse presented himself to him and who marveled, said, holding her by the muzzle: "Lord! You are my servant and I am your Lord". (This slip is due to his extreme joy). Extent of God's mercy that overcomes His wrath
4939. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: When God had finished the work of Creation, He wrote on his Book, which is in front of Him, above the Throne: "Surely, My mercy prevails over My wrath!"
4942. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "God made mercy to be formed of a hundred parts of which He kept four -ninety-nine to Him, and sent only one part to the earth. It is thanks to this part that all beings are animated with a feeling of kindness towards one another so that the beast of sum pulls his hoof away from his little one for fear of hurting it".
4947. 'Umar Ibn Al-khattab (may God be pleased with him) said: To the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) captives of war were brought among whom was a woman looking for a captive infant. When she found him, she pressed him to her chest and nursed him. Then the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said to us: "Do you think that this woman will be able to throw her child into the Fire?". - "No, we answered, she will certainly never throw him there as long as she has the power not to throw him there". The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then said: "Certainly God is even more Merciful towards His Servants than this woman towards her child".
4949. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: A man has never done any pious work said to his people: "When I die , burn my body and scatter half of my ashes on the earth, and the other half in the sea". - "By God, adds the Prophet, if God wills, He can inflict on him the most terrible punishment that He has ever inflicted on anyone in the world". When this man died, his people carried out his request. But, God ordered the sea to gather the elements it had received and enjoined the land to do the same for what it had received. Once the man was resuscitated, God said to him: "Why did you do this?". - "Because of the fear that You inspired in me, he replied; You know it better than anyone". God then forgave him.
4952. Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Formerly there was a man whom God endowed with wealth and children. When he was near death, he said to his children: "Do as I command you or else I will assign my legacy to other heirs. When I am dead, burn me, crush my corpse and , let the wind spread my ashes, since I have done no good and God is indeed Able to chastise me fully". The children having complied with this recommendation, yet God gathered the ashes of this man and said to him: "Who prompted you to do so?". - "The fear that You inspired in me", replied the man. Only this word could redeem him. Acceptance of repentance for sins even if the perpetrator reoffends
4953. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) related from his Lord, the Exalted: "A man, having committed a sin, cried out : "Lord! Forgive me my sin". "Since, says God, may His almightiness and greatness be exalted, my Servant committed a sin and saw that he had a Lord who forgives sins and who punishes them, I forgive him ". Then, this man made a new sin. - "Lord, he cried; I have committed a new sin, forgive me”. and who punishes them, I forgive him". Then, this man made a new sin. - "Lord, he cried; I have committed a new sin, forgive me”. and who punishes them, I forgive him for the third time. Do what you want, I grant you forgiveness in advance". 'Abd Al-'A'lâ adds: "I do not know if He said: (let you do what you want) to the third or fourth time. Jealousy of God and prohibition of abominable sins
4955. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "No one loves praise more than God, and that This is why He praised Himself. No one has more respect for Himself than God and this is why He forbade turpitude".
4959. Abu Hurayrah (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Certainly God is jealous and indeed the Believer is jealous. And the jealousy of God manifests itself when the Believer commits an act forbidden by God". Interpretation of this divine word: (good works dissipate bad)
4963. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud ( رضي الله عنهما ), a man, having kissed a woman, came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and told him what he had done. It was then that this verse was revealed: And perform Sala at both ends of the day and at certain hours of the night. Good works dispel bad ones. This is an exhortation for those who reflect. The man then asked the Prophet: "O Messenger of God! Is it about me that this verse was revealed?". - "It concerns any person of my Community who conforms to it", replied the Messenger of God.
4965. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), a man came to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Messenger of God, I have committed a fault which must be punished, apply to me therefore the prescribed penalty". The hour of prayer having come, the man prayed with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). The prayer finished, the man said: "O Messenger of God, I have committed a fault which must be punished, apply to me the penalty indicated in the Book of God". - "Did you not pray with us?" asked the Prophet. - "Yes", answered the man. - "Well, you have been forgiven". Acceptance of the murderer's repentance even though his crimes are multiplied
4967. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: There was among your predecessors a man who had killed ninety - nine people. He asked to see the most educated man on earth; he was shown a monk to whom he went and said: "I have killed ninety-nine people, will God accept my repentance?". - "No", replied the monk. So the man killed him, and thus made him the hundredth victim. Then continuing his quest for the most educated man on earth, he was then shown a scholar. - "I killed, he said to him, a hundred people, can I repent?". The scholar answered him, "Certainly, what prevents you from doing it? Go to such a country where you will find people who worship God, worship Him with them and never return to your country, because it is a land of perdition". The man left and when he got halfway he died. Immediately the angels of mercy and those of chastisement argued over him. The angels of mercy said: "He came repentant, his heart turned to God". The angels of chastisement objected, "He never did good." Then an Angel, in human form, presented himself to them; they took him as arbiter. - "Measure the distance that separates him from the two countries, he suggested to them, and whichever of the two you find closer to him, will be his". The angels measured the two distances and found that the dead man is closer to the country he wanted to reach. So the angels of mercy gathered up his soul. Narrative of the "Al-'ifk" slander and acceptance of the slanderer's repentance
4974. 'Aisha, the wife of the Prophet, (may God be pleased with her) said: When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) wanted to make a journey (or an expedition), he would make a draw among his wives to designate those who would accompany him. During one of the expeditions he undertook, he proceeded to draw lots and it was me that the lot had designated. So I left with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). It was after the revelation of the verse relating to the prescription of the veil and I was always in my palanquin, even when it was lowered from the camel's back. When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had finished this expedition, we took the way back. As we were near Medina on the way back, the Prophet ordered us to march one night. The instant the order to march was given, I rose and marched until I had passed the troops to satisfy a need, and on my way back to my mount. As I put my hand to my neck, I realized that I had lost my bead necklace made in Zafar. I went back to look for my necklace and the desire to find it held me back. The people who were in charge of my mount lifted my palanquin and loaded it onto my camel, believing that I was in it. Indeed, at that time the women were of light weight; they had not yet become obese, because they ate very little. So people did not find the lightness of the palanquin when they lifted it unusual, especially since I was a very young woman. So they lifted the camel and set off. When I found my necklace, the troops were already on the march. I went to the camp where there was no one left, so I went straight to the place where I had been installed, thinking that when they noticed my disappearance they would come back for me. As I sat there, I fell asleep and fell asleep. Now Safwân Ibn Al-Mu'attal As-Sulami Adh-Dhakwânî, who had remained behind the troops, after walking all night, arrived in the morning at the place where I was. Seeing the silhouette of a sleeping person, he approached me and recognized me when he saw me, for he had seen me before the wearing of the veil was ordered by the Koran and he said: "We are to God and we will return to Him". Her voice woke me up and I stood up, hiding my face with my veil. By God, he didn't utter any words other than those he had uttered in my sight. He then made his mount kneel down and trampled his forepaws for me to ride on which. He held on to his halter to lead him, and so we came to the troops who had just camped during the midday heat wave. 'A'isha continued: People had slandered me (accusing me of adultery) and among them was 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Ubayy Ibn Salûl who had carried the heaviest share of the slander. When we arrived in Medina, I fell ill for a month, and that's when people were spreading the words of the slanderers, without my knowing about it. What surprised me during my illness was that I did not find the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) as kind to me as he usually was when I fell ill. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) only entered my house, greeted me and said to me: "How are you?". This gave me concerns, but I did not hear the unfortunate news until I was discharged after my health was restored. I had gone out with 'Umm Mistah to go towards Al-Manasi', which served as our latrines. We only went there at night. This was before we had latrines near our homes. We followed the custom of the ancient Arabs who went to meet their natural needs in vacant lots and, like them, we are reluctant to have latrines near our homes because of their bad smell. So I left with 'Umm Mistah who was the daughter of Abu Ruhm Ibn Al-Muttalib Ibn 'Abd-Manaf; his mother, bint Sakhr Ibn 'Amir was the maternal aunt of Abu Bakr As-Siddîq and his son was Mistah Ibn 'Uthâtha ibn 'Abbâd Ibn Al-Muttalib. After having satisfied our needs, we returned, the daughter of Abu Ruhm and I, towards the house and as 'Umm Mistah tripped over the skirt of her garment, she exclaimed: "May Mistah Perish!". - "Fi! How bad it is, I told him, to insult a man who took part in the battle of Badr". - "Hey! my dear, she replied, didn't you hear what he had said?". - "And what did he say?", I asked. She immediately told me what the slanderers were saying. I then became more ill and, when I returned home, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) came to visit me, he greeted me, then said: "How are you?". - "Do you allow me, I asked him then, to go to my parents?". At that time I wanted to make sure of the news with them. the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) granted me this permission and I went to my parents. - "Dear mother, I said to my mother, what are people saying?". - "my daughter, she replied, don't worry. It is very rare that a pretty woman loved by her husband and having co-wives is not the object of their gossip". - "Glory to God!, I cried, people exchanged such remarks!". And I spent the whole night crying to the point that I didn't taste a single moment of sleep until the morning when I also spent crying. The Messenger of God, seeing that the revelation had been slow in coming on this subject, sent for 'Alî Ibn 'Abi Tâlib and Ousâma Ibn Zayd to ask them if he should separate from me. Usâma Ibn Zayd, being sure that I was innocent and knowing the affection that the Prophet had for me, said to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "Keep your wife we only know good of her". As for 'Ali Ibn Abu Talib, he said: "O Messenger of God, God has not cramped you too much. There are many other women. Ask her servant, she will tell you the truth". The Messenger of God then sent for Barira and said to him: "O Barira, have you seen anything from 'Aisha that arouses suspicion in you?". - "No, answered Barîra, I swear by Him who sent you by the Truth, I did not see him do anything reprehensible, except that being a very young woman it happens to him sometimes fall asleep next to the family's bread dough, leaving it to be eaten by domestic animals". The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) got up and resolved to ask that day for a justification from 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Ubayy Ibn Salûl. Then ascending the pulpit, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "O group of Muslims! Who will excuse me (if I punish) a man whose evil has reached my wife? By God! I do not know that good on my wife's account, and I am told of a man on whose account I know only good and who has never entered my wife's house except with me". Then Sa'd Ibn Mu'âdh Al-Ansâri stood up and said: "O Messenger of God, I will excuse you and if he belongs to the tribe of 'Aws, we will cut off his head; if it is one of our brothers from the Khazraj tribe, order what you will and we will do it". At these words, Sa'd Ibn 'Ubâda the chief of the Khazraj, who was a virtuous man, but whose tribal zeal plunged into ignorance, rose and addressed Sa'd Ibn Mu'âdh saying: " You lied; and I swear by God you won't kill him and you can't." In his turn, 'Usayd Ibn Hudayr, the cousin of Sa'd Ibn Mu'âdh, got up and, addressing Sa'd Ibn 'Ubâda by saying: "You have lied. By God we will kill him; for you you are only a hypocrite who pleads the cause of hypocrites". The two tribes of 'Aws and Khazraj were so excited, that they were about to fight each other, while the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was still in the pulpit. The Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) kept calming them down until they were silent and then he was silent. All that day I spent in tears and I tasted no moment of sleep. The next night, I also spent it in such a state that my parents thought that my tears would break my heart. While they were sitting beside me and while I was still in tears, a woman from the 'Ansar asked to see me. I made her come into my house, she sat down and started to cry in turn. We were in this state when the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) entered, saluted, then sat down. He hadn't sat next to me since people had said something about me, and it had gone on for a month without any revelation about me. Sitting down, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) pronounced the attestation of faith, then said: "O 'Aisha! Such and such a thing has come to me on your account; if you are innocent, God will make you innocent; if you have committed any fault, ask God's forgiveness and repent, for when the Servant recognizes his sins and repents, God accepts his repentance". No sooner had the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) finished these words than my tears stopped flowing and I did not shed a single tear. Addressing my father, I begged him to respond to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "By God!, he replied, I do not know what to say to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". So, turning to my mother, I begged her to respond to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). - "By God, she replied, I do not know what to say to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". I replied when I was still very young and did not retain much from the Qur'an: "By God, I know that you have heard this story (about me), that it has been engraved in you and that you believed it. If I tell you that I am innocent - and God knows that I am - you will not believe me; but if I admit that I have committed such a sin - and God knows that I I am innocent - you will believe me. By God! All I have to say about my situation are these words of Joseph's father: (Therefore, all I have left) is a fine patience! It is God whom I must call upon. help against what you are saying! - "That said, I turned around and lay down on my bed. At that moment, by God, I knew that I was innocent and that God will innocent me; but, by God! I would never have believed that God would send down a revelation about me. It seemed to me that I was too insignificant for God to reveal verses to me. However, I had hoped, that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) would see during his sleep a vision in which God declared me innocent. By God! The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) did not come out of the people of the house any more than anyone else, before having received the revelation and having been seized with the state (of fatigue) which accompanied any revelation; even in a winter's day, the drops of sweat fell in abundance and were so big as pearls, so heavy is the burden of the divine Word when it descends. As soon as this state had left the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him), he showed himself smiling and the first words he uttered were these: "Rejoice, 'Aisha as to God, He declare you innocent". - "Go to him", said my mother to me. - "By God! I answered, I will not go to him and it is God Alone that I must praise, it is He who declared my innocence". God, adds 'Aisha revealed the ten verses which begin thus: Those who came with slander are a group of you. When God had revealed this to declare my innocence, Abu Bakr As-Siddîq who gave subsidies to Mistah because he was of his parents and was poor, said: "By God! I will never give him any subsidy again after this what he said about 'Aisha". It was then that God revealed this verse And that the holders of wealth and ease among you, do not swear not to give any more gifts to the close relations.... Don't you like that God forgives you? According to Habân Ibn Mûsa, 'Abdullâh Ibn Al-Mubârak said: "This verse of the Book of God is the most that gives hope". Abu Bakr said: "Certainly, I want God to forgive me". And he renewed Mistah the pension he was giving him and affirmed that he would never take it away from him. 'A'isha continues: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had asked about me Zaynab bint Jahsh, one of the wives of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God upon him) and said to him: " O Zaynab what do you know (about this subject) and what have you seen?". - "O Messenger of God, she replied, I keep my hearing and my sight from sin (i.e. I will only say what I have seen and heard). I know only good (d 'she)". Now Zaynab was the only one among the wives of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him), who rivaled me in beauty and rank, but God preserved her (from lying about me) because of her piety . As for his sister Hamna bint Jahch, she supported the words of the slanderers, thus wanting to rid her sister of her rival, so she perished with the slanderers. The Authentic of Muslim 50 - Characteristics of Hypocrites and Their Statuses
4976. Zayd Ibn Arqam (may God be pleased with him) said: During an expedition which we undertook with the Prophet (peace be upon him), the faithful suffered from hunger. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Ubayy then said to his companions: Do not spend on those who are with the Messenger of God, so that they scatter "around him". And he added, said Zuhayr these last two words (from around him) then he continued: If we return to Medina, the most powerful will surely bring out the most humble. I then went to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and told him these words. He immediately summoned 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Ubayy and questioned him about it. He swore in the most formal way that he had not done such a thing and then said: "Zayd lied to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him)". I felt very sorry for this denial, until the moment when God revealed the demonstration of my veracity, by the preceding verse: When the hypocrites come to you... The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) made them then call to ask God to forgive them, but they turned their heads away. They are like logs leaning (against walls) Yet they were the most beautiful of men, says Zuhayr.
4977. Jabir (may God be pleased with him) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) went to the tomb of 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Ubayy. He took him out, put him on his knees, inhaled a little of his saliva and put on his own qamîs (shirt). Only God knows best".
4979. Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: Two Qurayshites and a Thaqifite - or according to a variant - two Thaqifites and a Qurayshite, with heavy bellies and narrow minds, were gathered near the House. - "Do you think, said one, that God hears what we say?". Another resumed: "He hears when we speak aloud, but He does not hear when we speak in a low voice". - "So, cried the third, if He hears what we say aloud, He also hears what we say in low voices". It was then that God, the Exalted, revealed this verse: You could not hide yourselves so that neither your hearing nor your eyes nor your skins could testify against you...
4980. Zayd bin Thabit (may Allah be pleased with him) said: When the Prophet (peace be upon him) set out for 'Uhud, some of those who had gone with him abandoned him. The companions of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) were then divided into two camps: some of them said: "We must kill these hypocrites". The others, on the other hand, rejected this opinion. It was on this occasion that this verse was revealed: Why divide yourselves into two factions about the hypocrites?...
4981. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), During the lifetime of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), when he (peace and blessings of God be upon him) left on an expedition, some men, among the hypocrites, did not follow him and rejoiced to stay at home disobeying the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) returned, they apologized to him, made protestations of loyalty to him, wanting to be praised for what they had not done. It is because of them that this verse was revealed: Do not think that those who exult in what they have done and who like to be praised for what they have not done, do not do not think therefore, that they find an escape from the punishment...
4982. According to Humayd Ibn Abdurrahmân Ibn 'Awf, Marwan said to his porter: "O Râfi' go to Ibn 'Abbas and say to him: If every man rejoicing in what he has received and wanting to be praised for this that he did not should be punished, we would all be punished". Ibn 'Abbas replied: "You need not concern yourself with this verse which was revealed to the People of the Book". Then, Ibn 'Abbas recited this verse: God took, from those to whom the Book was given, this commitment: "Expose it, certainly, to people and do not hide it". Ibn Abbas then recited: Do not think of those who exult in what they have done and who like to be praised for what they have not done. Here is only what it refers to, added Ibn 'Abbas: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) had asked the Jews about one thing. But they hid the answer from him and spoke to him about something else. then showed him that they had given him the answer to his question and that they deserved to be praised for the information they had given him and were very happy with what they had done by hiding the requested solution from him. .
4987. Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him) said: There was among us a man from Banû An-Najjâr; who recited suras Al-Baqara and 'Al 'Imrân, moreover, he wrote for the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him). This man fled (the Muslim Community) and went to join the People of the Book. They kept him an important place among them and said: "That was one of the scribes of Muhammad". They esteemed him highly; but, God slew him while he was among them. They dug a grave for him to bury him, but the next morning the earth threw up his body. They dug even deeper to bury him, but in the morning they found that the earth had thrown him up again. They dug for a third time, but the earth also rejected him; they then ended up leaving him thus without burial. The Authentic of Muslim 51 - Aspects of Resurrection Day, Heaven and Hell
4991. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: The eminent and obese man, when he comes on the Day of Resurrection, n will not have before God the weight of a mosquito's wing. Recite this verse: We will not assign weight to them on the Day of Resurrection.
4992. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: One of the Jewish rabbis came to the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and said to him: "O Muhammad! or O Abu Al -Qâsim! on the Day of Resurrection, God, the Most High will place the heavens on one finger, the lands on one finger, the mountains and the trees on one finger, the water and the damp earth on one finger and all created beings on a finger, He will shake them and then say: (I am the King, I am the King)". Amazed at the rabbi's words and approving them at the same time, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) laughed, then recited this verse: They did not esteem God as He should be whereas on the Day of Resurrection, He will make the whole earth a handful and the heavens will be folded in His right (hand). Glory to Him! He is above what they associate with Him.
4994. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) said: On the Day of Resurrection, God, may His almightiness and greatness be exalted, will grasp the earth and then He will bend the heavens with His right hand and then He will say: "I am the King, where are the kings of the earth?"
4995. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Omar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: On the Day of Resurrection, God, the Exalted, will bend the heavens and then the will seize with His right hand and then He will say: "I am the King! Where are the cruel? Where are the haughty?". Then God will bend the lands with His left hand, and say, "I am the King! Where are the cruel? Where are the haughty?" Resurrection and appearance of the earth in that day
4998. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "On the Day of Resurrection, men will be gathered on a white land verging on red like pure wheat bread and no trace will be found there for anyone (neither of dwellings, nor of monuments, etc.)". Abodes of the Elect of Paradise
5000. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "On the Day of Resurrection, the earth will be like a single loaf that the Almighty will knead with His hand as one of you kneads his bread for the provision of the journey and which will serve as food for the elect of Paradise". The transmitter adds: A Jewish man came to find the Messenger of God and said to him: "May the Clement bless you, O Abu Al-Qâsim! Do you want me to tell you what the food of the elect of Paradise will be on the Day of Resurrection? ?". - "Certainly yes", replied the Prophet. - "The earth will be like one loaf", replied the Jew (as the Messenger of God had said). The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then looked at us and smiled so much that we saw his molars. The Jew continued: "Do you want me to tell you what their food will be?" - "Yes", replied the Prophet. - "Balâm et nûn", he said. As the Prophet was asked what this meant, he said: "Of the bull and the whale, the appendix part of their livers, will suffice for seventy thousand people". Question asked by the Jews to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) about the soul, and verse about the soul
5002. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: While I was walking in a cultivated field in the company of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who rested his hand on a palm, we passed by a group of Jews. Some of them said to others, "Ask him about the soul." They answered: "What leads you to ask him such a question? It is possible that you will receive an answer which will displease you". - "Ask him anyway". Finally some of them went to ask him about the soul. The Prophet (peace be upon him) remained silent and did not answer. Then, continued the transmitter, I understood that he was going to receive a revelation and I left the place where I was. When the Prophet received the revelation, he recited this verse: And they ask you about the soul, - Say: "The soul comes under the Order of my Lord". And you have been given little knowledge. "God is not such that He chastises them, while you are in the midst of them"
5004. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), Abu Jahl said: "Lord, if this is the Truth from You, rain down on us rocks from the sky or inflict on us some painful punishment". It was then that these verses were revealed: God is not such that He chastises them, while you are in the midst of them. And God is not such that He chastises them when they ask for forgiveness. What do they have so that God does not chastise them, while they repel (the Believers) from the Holy Mosque..... The smoke
5006. Masrouq said: We were sitting with 'Abdullâh while he was lying on his side, when a man came to him and said: "O Abu 'Abdurrahmân, during a story of traditions that he was telling at the gates of Kinda a man claims and narrates that the (Quranic) verse which evokes smoke, relates to the fact that (on the Day of Resurrection) there will come a smoke which will cause the infidels to expire, while the Believers will only be stricken with a kind of cold". 'Abdullâh became angry, sat up and said: "O men, fear God! Let anyone among you who knows something say it; or let him say: God is He who knows the best. It is already a proof of science to say something that one does not know: I do not know. God, the Exalted, said to His Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) : Say: For this, I do not ask you for any salary; and I am not an impostor. When the Quraysh were slow to embrace Islam, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) invoked God against them saying: "Lord, help me against them with seven years like the seven years of Joseph. Then, for a whole year, famine raged among them to the point that they were reduced to eating the skins of animals and their carcasses. When one of them was looking at the heavens, he saw a kind of smoke. Abu Sufyan came to the Prophet and said: "O Muhammad! You command us to obey God and maintain kinship. But your fellow citizens perish; pray to God for them.” God, the Exalted, said: Well, wait for the day when the sky will bring visible smoke that will cover the people. will it turn away from them the punishment of the other world, he said, when the Hour comes? day of Badr; the predictions of the verses evoking smoke, violence and the lizâm (that which sticks) have already passed just like the prediction of the verse of sura Ar-Rûm.
5010. 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him) said: In the time of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the moon split into two pieces, "Be witnesses of this fact ", then said the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him).
5013. Anas (may God be pleased with him) said: "The people of Mecca having asked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to show them a miracle. He showed them, two times, the moon split in two".
5015. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: "The moon split in two in the time of the Prophet (peace be upon him)". No being is more patient than God to Him the power and the glory
5016. According to Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "No one is more patient in bearing the offenses that he hears than God, the Exalted: They (the polytheists) give Him associates and ascribe children to Him and yet He gives them well-being and grants them sustenance.”
5017. Narrated 'Abdullâh Ibn Qays (may God be pleased with him) that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "No one is more patient in bearing the offenses he hears than God, the Most High, for They (the polytheists) give Him associates and attribute children to Him, and in spite of this He grants them sustenance, procures them health and bestows upon them goods". Request of the unbeliever to be redeemed by the contents of the earth in gold
5018. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Surely (on the Day of Resurrection), God, may His almighty and greatness be exalted , will say to that of the reprobates who will undergo the lightest torture: "If you owned the earth and all the goods it contains, would you give them up to redeem yourself (from Hell)?". - "Yes", he will answer. - "However, while you were still in the loins of Adam, I had asked you for something more minimal than that, that you associate Me with no other divinity, the transmitter adds: Perhaps he (the Prophet) said again: and (which I have promised you) that in return, you will not go to Hell. However, you have refused anything other than polytheism". The unbeliever will be gathered on his face
5020. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), a man said: "O Prophet! How will the infidel be dragged on his face on the Day of Resurrection?". - "He, answered the Prophet, who, in this world, made it drag on his legs, will He not be able to make it drag on his face on the Day of Resurrection?". The believer is comparable to a plantation and the unbeliever to the cedar tree
5024. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Believer is like the plant that the wind, from whichever side it come, never ceases to make it lean, like the Believer who never ceases to be tested. The hypocrite, on the other hand, is like a rigid cedar which does not move until the moment when, at a single blow, it is uprooted ".
5025. According to Ka'b (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Believer is comparable to a flexible plant that the wind sometimes bends and sometimes straightens; until rooted firmly in the earth. As for the hypocrite, he is like the cedar whose root is firm and which no wind bends; he remains thus until the moment when, from one blow, he will be uprooted". The Believer is like a palm tree
5027. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "There is one among the trees whose leaves do not fall, and who resembles the Believer. Tell me." People thought of some desert trees. As for me, I thought it was the palm tree, but I dared not speak. The people then said, "Tell us, O Messenger of God, what is this tree?" - "It's the palm tree", he replied. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar added: "As I related this to 'Umar, he said to me: If you had said that it was the palm tree, it would have given me more pleasure than such and such a thing". No one entered Paradise thanks to his works but thanks to the mercy of God
5036. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "No one will be saved (from Hell) thanks to his works". - "Not even you, O Messenger of God?", he was asked. - "Not even me, he replied, unless God grants me His mercy. But, you must still follow the right path". Multiplication of good works and preservation in worship practices
5044. According to Al-Mughîra Ibn Chu'ba (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) prayed (so long) that his feet swelled. - "O Messenger of God, he was asked, why do you inflict so much suffering on yourself when God has already forgiven you your past faults and those to come?". - "Must I not be a grateful Servant?", he answered.
5046. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) remained so long in prayer, that his feet suffered from cracks. - "Why do you act like this, O Messenger of God, asked 'Aisha, since God has already forgiven you and your past faults and your future faults?". - "O 'Aisha, replied the Prophet, must I not be a grateful Servant?". Moderation in exhortations
5047. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), Chaqîq Ibn Salama said: We were sitting near the door of 'Abdullâh and while we were waiting for him, we saw Yazîd Ibn Mu' pass by. awiya An-Nakha'i. We then said to the latter: "Tell him (to 'Abdullâh) that we are waiting for him here". Yazid then entered his house ('Abdullâh) and 'Abdullâh soon joined us saying: "I have been told that you are waiting for me here and nothing has prevented me from joining you except the fear of boring you, in fact, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) chose the right day and time for the exhortation for fear of disgusting us. The authentic of Muslim 52 - Paradise, its delights and its inhabitants
5050. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: God, the Exalted said: "I have prepared for those of My servants which are virtuous which no eye has seen, no ear has heard, and which has never occurred to any human being." What confirms this in the Book of God is this verse: No being knows what has been reserved for them as a delight for the eyes, as a reward for what they have worked! In Paradise, there is a tree under the shade of which a horseman can walk for a hundred years without passing it.
5054. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "In Paradise there is a tree in the shade of which a traveler on his mount can walk for hundred years".
5055. According to Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There is in Paradise a tree in whose shade a traveler on his mount can walk a hundred years without even arriving at the end of the shadow".
5056. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There is in Paradise a tree whose rider on a fast and fast courier in good condition, cannot reach the end (of its shadow) in a hundred years". God's satisfaction granted to the elect of Paradise without His wrath against them
5057. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khoudri (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: God will say to the elect of Paradise: - "Hey! People of Paradise!". - "Here we are, here we are, answering Your call, the Good is in Your hands", they will answer. - "Are you satisfied?". - "How could we not when You have given us what You have not given to any of Your creatures". - "Do you want Me to give you what is even better than that". - "Lord, what could be better than that?". - "I will grant you all My satisfaction and never, from now on, I will be irritated against you". The elect of Paradise will see those who are in their homes, as we see (currently) the star in the sky
5058. Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "The guests of Paradise will see Al-Ghurfa (high place of Paradise) as you see the constellation in the sky". The first group to enter Paradise will have the aspect of a full moon, their aspects and their wives
5062. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), Abu Al-Qâsim (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The first group which will enter Paradise will have the aspect of the moon, the night when it is full; and the next group will have the brilliance of the brightest star in the sky. Each of the people in these groups will have two wives, so beautiful that through the flesh of their legs one will see the marrow of their celibacy will not exist in Paradise". Tents of Paradise and Brides of Believers
5070. According to Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Believer will have in Paradise a tent formed of a single pearl, hollow , sixty miles in length and in which he will have several women whom he can all see without one of them being able to see the other". Among the guests of Paradise are people whose hearts will be like those of birds
5075. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: God - Praise be to Him and Exalted - created Adam in His own image, with a sixty cubits high. When He created him, he said to him: "Go to this group of Angels, you will find them seated, greet them and listen to the formula which they will use to answer you, because it will be the formula of greeting which you will you will serve, you and your posterity". He then went to find them and said to them: "Peace be upon you!". - "Peace be upon you, they answered, as well as the mercy of God!". So they added these words: "as well as the mercy of God". Thus, all those who will enter Paradise will have the form that Adam had and will be sixty cubits long, although hitherto the stature of men has been steadily diminishing. Of the ardor of the fire of Gehenna, of the depth of its abyss and of what it will touch of the reprobate
5077. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "Your (earthly) fire is only a part of the seventy parts forming the fire of Hell". He was then told: "Sent by God! However, this earthly fire is certainly quite sufficient!". He said: "However, the fire of Hell has more than your fire, sixty-nine parts, each of which has the ardor of earthly fire". The tyrants will go to Hell and the poor to Heaven
5081. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: A dispute arose between Paradise and Hell. - "I, says Hell, my hosts are the proud and haughty people". - "I, said Heaven, my hosts are the weak and the humble". - "You, said God addressing Hell, you are My punishment and it is through you that I punish whoever I want – according to another version – I punish with you whoever I want. While you, continued God by speaking to Paradise, you are My mercy and it is through you that I show myself merciful to whomever I want, and each of you will be full".
5084. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: Hell will not stop saying: "Are there still other reprobates" until God, may His almightiness and greatness be exalted, shall set His foot there. Then it (Hell) will say, "Enough! Enough! By Your majesty" and its parts will come closer to each other.
5087. According to Abu Sa'id (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "On the Day of Resurrection, death will be brought in the form of a ram rather white than black". A herald will shout, "Hey! People of Heaven. Do you recognize this?" These will stretch their necks and look. - "Yes, they will answer, it is death". Then the herald will shout, "Hey people of Hell. Do you recognize this?" These will stretch their necks and look. - "Yes, they will answer, it is death". Then the order will be given to kill him. - "O people of Paradise, the herald will then exclaim, you are immortal; death no longer exists. O people of Hell, you are immortal; death no longer exists". Then, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) then recited this verse: And warn them of the Day of Regret, when all will be settled; while they are (in this world) inattentive and disbelieving. Having said this, the Prophet pointed to the here below. Abu Kurayb only adds to this hadith that the ram will be stopped between Heaven and Hell and he approves of everything else.
5088. Narrated 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: When God brings the blessed into Paradise and the reprobate into Hell, there will arise between them a herald who will shout: "O inhabitants of Hell, death no longer exists; O hosts of Paradise, death no longer exists. Each of you will remain eternally where he is".
5090. Abu Hurayrah (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "The molar of the infidel, or alternatively the canine of the infidel, will be ( on the Day of Resurrection) as voluminous as the mountain of 'Uhud and the thickness of its skin will be three days' march".
5091. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "The space between the two shoulders of the infidel in Hell will be comparable to the distance traveled in three days by a rider who sets off at a brisk pace".
5092. Hâritha Ibn Wahb (may God be pleased with him) said: He heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "Do you not want me to show you the people of Paradise?". - "Yes", we answered him. - "Any weak and humble person; who if he swears by the name of God (that a thing will be done), God makes his oath come true". Then he said, "Don't you want me to show you the people of Hell?" - "Yes", we answered him. - "Any rough, rude and arrogant person".
5095. 'Abdullâh Ibn Zam'a (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) gave a sermon in which he spoke of the camel and of the one who, after cutting off her legs , killed her. The Messenger of God then recited this verse: when the most miserable of them got up (to kill the camel) then he added: "The man who got up was endowed with great authority, turbulent and feared by his people , such as Abu Zam'a". Then, the Messenger of God spoke about women and then said: "Why is one of you whipping his wife".
5096. Abu Hurayrah (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "I saw 'Amr Ibn Luhayy Ibn Qam'a Ibn Khindif Abu Banû Ka'b dragging his bowels in Hell". Annihilation of the earth and gathering on the Day of Resurrection
5102. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) say: "On the Day of Resurrection, people will be gathered barefoot, unclothed and uncircumcised". - "So, O Messenger of God, said 'Aisha, men and women will see each other (naked)". - "O 'Aisha, said the Prophet, the circumstance will be very serious for some to worry about looking at others".
5103. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), he heard the Prophet (peace be upon him) give a sermon where he said: "You will meet God, barefoot, without clothes, on foot, and uncircumcised".
5105. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Men will be gathered in three ways: the longing (for Paradise), the frightened (for 'Hell); those who will come in twos, threes, fours or ten riding on a single camel. The fire will gather the others; it will sleep where they sleep, take a nap where they take it; it will pass the morning where they will spend it and be the evening they will be". Aspect of the Day of Resurrection and its pangs
5106. Narrated 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: On the day when people will stand before the Lord of the Universe The sweat of some- some will come up to their mid-ears.
5107. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: On the Day of Resurrection, men will sweat so much that the sweat will leave its mark on the ground for a length of seventy cubits and that it will ascend to their mouths, or according to a variant, to their ears. Thawr isn't sure which of the two words he used (mouth or ears). The dead man will be shown his place in Heaven or Hell. Torment of the grave and refuge with God from whom
5110. Narrated Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: When one of you dies, in the morning and in the evening, he will be shown the place which he will occupy among the people of Paradise, if he is one of the blessed in Paradise; or among the people of Hell, if he is one of the reprobate of Hell and it will be said to him: "This is where you will dwell when God raises you up on the Day of Resurrection".
5114. Abu Ayyub (may God be pleased with him) said: One day, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) having gone out after sunset, heard voices: "They are, he said, Jews who suffer the punishment in their tombs".
5115. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: When the dead is put in his grave, let his friends go away and return home, and while he still hears the click of their sandals, two angels go to him, make him sit up and say to him about me: "What did you say about this man?". If the dead man is a true believer he will answer: "I confess that he is the Servant of God and His Messenger". Then the angels will say to him: "Look at the place that you would have occupied in Hell and the one that God in exchange assigned to you in Paradise". And the man will see both places at once.
5117. According to Al-Barâ' Ibn 'Azib (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: This verse: God strengthens the believers by the firm word in the present life and in the hereafter...was revealed about the punishment of the tomb. (When the devotee is dead and buried), he is asked: "Who is your Lord?". He then said: "My Lord is God and my Prophet is Muhammad (peace be upon him)". This is what this Quranic verse alludes to: God strengthens believers by firm words in the present life and in the hereafter... Final account
5122. According to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "On the Day of Resurrection, the one whose account will be examined will be punished" . - "But, I say, is it not said in the Koran: will be subject to an easy judgment". - "It is a question in this verse of the simple presentation before God, the Exalted, (and not of the examination of the accounts), because the one whose account will be peeled on the Day of Resurrection will be punished". Order to think well of God when dying
5127. 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "When God wants to chastise a people, He causes the chastisement to reach everything the people, then they will be judged according to his works". The Authentic of Muslim 53 - Temptations and Clues of the Last Day Approaching Troubles and Opening of the Rampart of Gog and Magog
5128. According to Zaynab bint Jahsh (may God be pleased with her), One day the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) awoke in fear and said: "There is no god but God; woe to the Arabs who are in imminent danger. Today a breach is being made in the wall of Gog and Magog of this magnitude." Sufyan then gestured to indicate the number ten (to give an idea of the size of the crack). - "O Messenger of God, I cried, are we going to perish, while there are among us virtuous people?". - "Yes, he answered, if the turpitudes become numerous".
5130. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "Today a breach of this magnitude is made in the wall of Gog and Magog" . Wuhayb pointed with his fingers that it was ninety. Engulfing the army that will attack the Sacred House
5134. According to 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) frowned while sleeping. As they say to him: "O Messenger of God, you made a grimace while sleeping, which you are not used to doing". - "It is astonishment, he said, I saw some of my Community attack the Ka'ba in search of a Qoraychite who took refuge there. Arrived at a certain place in the desert, these people were swallowed up in it". - "O Messenger of God, we replied, the same path can bring together people of different intentions". - "Certainly, said the Prophet, there were among them those who are well aware of their objective (to attack the Sacred House), those who are forced to follow them and there were finally travelers who accidentally follow their path. However, they will all be swallowed up but they will instead be resurrected according to their intentions. Troubles will come like falling rain
5135. 'Usama (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him), climbing one day on one of the towers of Medina, cried: "Do you see, what I see? Well, I see the places of trouble among your dwellings, as one sees the places where the rain falls".
5136. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "There will be seditions; whoever then stays away from them (without participate) will be better than the one who gets up (takes part in it), the one who gets up will be better than the one who walks (will greatly participate in it), the one who walks will be better than the one who runs (excites others). who exposes himself to these seditions, they will expose themselves to him. Let him who can find an asylum or a shelter, let him take refuge there". The two Muslims who kill each other
5139. Abu Bakra (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Prophet (peace be upon him) say: "When two Muslims, saber in hand, throw themselves on the another, the murderer and the victim will both go to Hell". And as I asked, or according to a variation the Prophet was asked: "It is indeed the fate of the murderer; but why the victim?". - "The victim also wanted to kill his adversary".
5142. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Supreme Hour will not come until a great battle is fought between two large troops both preaching the same thing".
5143. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God said: "The Hour will not arise before the haraj does not occur on a large scale". As he was asked, "What is haraj?". - "It is, he replied, murder, murder". Information to the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) about the events that will occur until the Day of Judgment
5146. Hudhayfa Ibn Al-Yaman (may God be pleased with him) said: By God! I am more aware than any of you of the riots which will occur from this day until the Day of Resurrection and I report them not from my own knowledge but from what the Messenger of God had told me in secret without telling anyone but me. However, the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was in an assembly of which I was a part and he then spoke of the seditions and he said counting them: There would be three seditions which would leave nothing without annihilating it, others that will resemble the summer winds, some of which will be small and some of which will be large. The Hour will not take place until the Euphrates reveals a mountain of gold
5152. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: The Hour will not take place until the Euphrates reveals a mountain of gold and people will kill each other to get hold of it. Of every hundred men, ninety-nine would be killed and each of them would say, "Perhaps I shall be the survivor." The Hour will not take place until a fire breaks out in Hejaz
5164. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Supreme Hour will not come until a fire springs from the land of the Hejaz, whose light will illuminate the necks of the camels in Bossra". Trouble will come from the East where the two horns of Satan will rise
5167. According to Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), He heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say while heading towards the East: "The sedition will come from this side, the sedition will come from that side, from which will appear the horns of Satan". The Hour will not come before Dhû Al-Khalasa is worshiped by the Daws
5173. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Supreme Hour will not come until the women of Daws turn around of Dhû Al-Khalâsa (to adore him)". Dhû Al-Khalâsa was an idol worshiped by the Daws in pre-Islamic times in Tabâla. The Hour will not arrive until man passes through a grave wishing to be in the place of the dead by dint of misfortunes
5175. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: The Supreme Hour will not come until the man, passing by the tomb of a person, does not say: "I wish to be in his place".
5182. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Supreme Hour will not come until a man from Qahtan arises leading men with his staff".
5184. Narrated Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) that the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "The Supreme Hour will not come until you fight people whose faces look like shields and the Supreme Hour will not come until you fight a people who wear sandals of hair".
Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) said: You will fight the Jews (who will take refuge from you behind the stones). But each of its stones will say: "O Muslim! There is a Jew behind me, come and kill him!".
5203. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: The Supreme Hour will not arise before the Muslims fight the Jews. The Muslims will kill the Jews until the survivors of the latter take refuge behind the stones and the trees who will then call the Muslim saying: "O Muslim! O servant of God! There is a Jew behind me, come and kill him! ", with the exception of the tree called Al-Gharqad which is one of the trees of the Jews.
5205. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Messenger of God (peace be upon him) said: The Supreme Hour will not come until about thirty impostors and liars appear. , all claiming to be the Messenger of God. Narrative of Ibn Sayyad
5209. According to Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri (may God be pleased with him), I was on my way to Mecca accompanied by Ibn Sayyad, when the latter said to me: "Do you see how people claim that I am 'Antichrist, did you not hear the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) say that the Antichrist was sterile? - "Yes", I answered. - "Well! I have a child. Didn't you also hear him say that the Antichrist will not enter Mecca or Medina?". - "If" - "Well! I was born in Medina and here I am on my way to Mecca". Ibn Sayyad finally said: "By God! I know well when and where the Antichrist was born and where he is now". But by his words, added the transmitter, Ibn Sayyad will confuse me about his identity.
5214. According to Jâbir Ibn 'Abdullâh ( رضي الله عنهما ), Muhammad Ibn Al-Munkadir said: I was present when Jabir Ibn 'Abdullâh swore, by God, that Ibn Sayyâd was the Antichrist. - "Do you swear by God?", I said to him. - "I heard 'Umar swear thus, he replied in the presence of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) who did not reproach him".
5215. According to 'Abdullah Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), 'Umar went with the Prophet (peace be upon him) to a group of Muslims on the side where Ibn Sayyad was. They found him playing with other children near the Banû Maghâla castle. At this time, Ibn Sayyad was approaching the age of puberty. He only noticed the arrival of the Prophet when the latter, having struck him with his hand on the back, said to him: "Do you confess that I am the Messenger of God?". Ibn Sayyad looked at him and replied: "I confess that you are the envoy of the illiterate". Then he added, addressing the Prophet: "And you, do you confess that I am the Messenger of God?". Then, the Prophet refused and continued: "I believe in God and in his Messengers. But you, what visions do you have?". - "I have true ones and false ones", distributes Ibn Sayyâd. - "It is that for you, retorted the Prophet, things are confused. Well! I have something for you". - "It is a trick", says Ibn Sayyâd. - "May you be depreciated and humiliated!, cried the Prophet, you could never do what is beyond your strength!". 'Umar Ibn Al-Khattâb then said: "O Messenger of God! Let me cut off his head". - "If he is the Antichrist, replied the Messenger of God, you cannot have power over him; and, if he is not the Antichrist, there will be no advantage for you in 'have kill". The transmitter Sâlim Ibn 'Abdullâh continued: I heard 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar: Later, the Messenger of God, accompanied by 'Ubayy Ibn Ka'b Al-'Ansârî went to a grove of palm trees where Ibn Sayyad. He (peace and blessings of God be upon him) concealed his approach, hoping to overhear something said by Ibn Sayyad before being seen by the latter, whom he saw lying in a blanket and he was fidgeting there - or according to a variant - he was singing. But the mother of Ibn Sayyâd having seen the Messenger of God who was hiding behind the trunks of palm trees, shouted to her son: "Hey! Sâfi, that was the name of Ibn Sayyâd, here is Muhammad". Immediately, Ibn Sayyad jumped up. - "If said then the Prophet, this woman had left him, he would have shown us clearly (who he was)". Salim said: 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar adds that the Prophet gathered the people and after having praised and glorified God, said to them: "I warn you against the Antichrist. Indeed, there is no Prophet who does not urged his people to beware of the Antichrist. Noah also warned his people against him; but I will tell you about him what no Prophet had pointed out to his people. Know that the Antichrist is one-eyed whereas God, may His almightiness and greatness be exalted, is not one-eyed". The Antichrist, his portrait and what will be with him
5219. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: No Prophet did not take care to urge his people to beware of the one-eyed impostor. He is one-eyed, but your Lord is not one-eyed. Between the eyes of the Antichrist, these letters are written: the Kâf, the Fâ' and the Râ' (kufr, i.e. infidelity).
5222. According to Hudhayfa (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Antichrist is blind in his left eye, with bushy hair and will present to people a Paradise and a Hell: his Hell will be a Paradise and his Paradise a Hell".
5227. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: The Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Do you want me to announce to you about the Antichrist a fact that no one Prophet had not pointed out to his people? He is one-eyed and he will bring with him an image of Paradise and Hell. Whichever of the two he will call Paradise will be Hell in truth. I warned you of this like Noah in warned his people". Advent of the Antichrist, his stay on earth, prohibition of his access to Medina. Assassination and resurrection of the faithful by the hands of the Antichrist
5229. Abou Sa'îd Al-khudrî (may God be pleased with him) said: One day, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) told us a long story about the Antichrist. He then tells us, among other things: The Antichrist will come but he will be forbidden to enter by one of the paths leading to Medina. He will settle in one of the saline depressions near Medina. On that day, a man, the best of men - or according to a variant one of the best of men - will find him and say to him: "I certify that you are the Antichrist of whom the Messenger of God spoke to us" . - "What would you think, the Antichrist will say (to people), if I killed this man and if then I resuscitated him? Would you doubt the thing?". - "No", we will answer. Then he will kill the man and raise him up; then, when he is resurrected, the man will say: "By God! I have never been more sure that you were the Antichrist more than now". The Antichrist will then try to kill him, but he can no longer do anything against him. The minimal value of the Antichrist in the eyes of God
5231. Al-Mughîra Ibn Chu'ba (may God be pleased with him) said: No one asked the Prophet (peace be upon him) about the Antichrist as I did myself. , to the point that he said to me: "He should not be a source of concern for you. He could not do anything against you". - "It is claimed, I replied, that he will bring with him food and rivers". - "The Antichrist will still be so insignificant in the eyes of God, despite all this". spy story
5236. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: There is no city that the Antichrist will not tread. There will be exceptions only for Mecca and Medina. There is no access road to this last city which is not guarded by angels placed in rows. The Antichrist will then settle in As-Sabakha (one of the saline depressions). Then, Medina will undergo three earthquakes and God will then bring out every disbeliever and every hypocrite. Approaching Hour
5244. Sahl Ibn Sa'd (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say, joining the index finger to the middle finger: "I have been sent, me and the Hour thus".
5245. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "I have been sent, I and the Hour like these two."
5248. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: When the Bedouins came to the Prophet (peace be upon him) they asked him about the Hour, when is it would take place. Looking then at the youngest of them, he said: "If that one lives and before he falls into decay, he will witness the arrival of your Hour".
5249. According to Anas (may God be pleased with him), a man came to question the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him): "When will the Hour take place?" . The Prophet having in his home a boy of the 'Ansar, named Muhammad, then replied: "If this little boy remains alive, and before he is reached with decrepitude, he will witness the arrival of your Hour" . What will be between the two blows of the Trumpe
5253. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Between the two blows (of the Trumpet), there will be forty". The transmitter adds: I was then asked: "O Abu Hurayra! Is it forty days?". But I did not answer them. - "Is it about forty months?", we resumed. But I kept silent. - "Is it therefore forty years?". I said nothing, then I continued, saying: "Then God will send down water from the sky, thanks to which people will grow as vegetables grow. The whole body of man will disappear except the bones of the coccyx (of the lower end of the spine), for it is on these bones that he will be resurrected on the Day of Judgment". The authentic of Muslim 54 - Asceticism and destitute
5260. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Three things accompany the coffin of the dead person: two return and only one remains with him. These three things are his family, his fortune and the sum of his works; those which return are: his family and his fortune; and that which remains with him is: the sum of his works".
5261. According to 'Amr Ibn 'Awf (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) instructed Abu 'Ubayda Ibn Al-Jarrah to go and collect the tribute from Bahrain. After being reconciled with the inhabitants of Bahrain, the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) gave them Al-'Ala' Ibn Al-Hadrami as their leader. As Abu 'Ubayda returned with the money from Bahrain, the news of his arrival (Abu 'Ubayda) spread among the 'Ansar. These made with the Prophet (peace and blessings of God on him) the prayer of fajr (dawn); Once the prayer was over, the Prophet (peace be upon him) wanted to leave, but the 'Ansar accosted him. Then, smiling at the sight of them, the Prophet (peace be upon him) said: "You, I imagine, heard that Abu 'Ubayda had brought something from Bahrain?". - "Yes, O Messenger of God", they answered. - "Rejoice therefore, and hope to obtain what will cause you joy. By God! It is not poverty that I fear for you; I rather fear that the goods of this world will be offered to you freely. as they were to your predecessors and that, in your emulation to acquire them, you do not find, like them, your loss".
5263. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "When one of you looks at someone more favored than him by fortune and offspring, let him rather look at the one who is below him and from whom he is more favored".
5265. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), He heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings be upon him) say: Among the Israelites there were three men, a leper, a bald man and a blind man whom God saw fit to try. So He sent an Angel to them; this one went to find the leper and said to him: "What is the thing that would please you the most?". - "A beautiful complexion, a beautiful skin, he replied, and the cure of this disease which makes me repulsive in the eyes of people". The Angel having passed his hand over this man, the spots of leprosy disappeared and gave way to a beautiful complexion and a beautiful skin. - "Which is the good that you prefer?", added the Angel - "The camels, he answered - or according to a variant the cows". ('Ishâq doubted on this point; however, one of the two men: the leper and the bald one replied "the camels" and the other "the cows"). They gave him a camel pregnant with ten months and the Angel said to him: "May God bless you!". The Angel then went to find the bald man and asked him: "What will be the most pleasant thing for you?". - "A beautiful hair, he replied, because people find me so repugnant". The Angel then passed his hand over the head of the bald man, which was covered with beautiful hair. - "And now, added the Angel, what is the good that you prefer the most?". - "The cows", he resumed. He was given a pregnant cow and the Angel said to him: "May God bless you!". Then going to the blind man, the Angel asked him what would please him the most. - "It would be, answered the blind man, that God restores my sight so that I can see men". The Angel then passed his hand over the eyes of the blind man and God then restored his sight. - "And now, he added, what is the good that you prefer the most?". - "The sheep", he resumed. They gave him a pregnant ewe that was going to lamb. The three females having given birth, the first male soon had a valley filled with camels, the second a valley filled with oxen, and the third a valley filled with sheep. Some time after that, the Angel, resuming the figure of a leper, came to find the leper of old and said to him: "I am an unhappy man, I lost all my resources on my journey and today he cannot I only have to address myself to God and to you. In the name of Him who gave you a beautiful complexion and a beautiful skin as well as a great fortune, I ask you to give me a camel that will allow me to complete my trip". - "I have many charges", replied the man. - "But, replied he (the Angel), I seem to recognize you well. Were you not a leper of repulsive aspect and without resources, and did not God give you (everything what you have)?". - "On the other hand, I inherited all this good from my ancestors". - "If you lie replied the Angel, may God make you become again as you were!". Then, taking on the face of a bald man, the Angel went to find the bald man of old and said the same things to him and got the same answer from him. - "If you are lying, replied the Angel, may God make you return to what you were!". Finally the Angel, taking on the face of a blind man, presented himself to the blind man of old and said to him: "I am an unfortunate traveler, I lost all my resources while traveling and today I have nothing left only to address myself to God and to you. In the name of Him who restored your sight, I ask you for a sheep so that I can complete my journey". - "I was blind, answered the man and God gave me back my sight. Take what you want, because, by God, I will not dispute you whatever it is that you take". - "Keep your property, replied the Angel. It was only to test you (all three). God is pleased with you and He curses your two companions".
5267. Sa'd (may God be pleased with him) said: I am the first of the Arabs to shoot an arrow in the way of God; I still see us going on expeditions with the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) and having nothing else to eat but leaves of hubla (variety of acacia) and this samur (kind of mimosa) , to the point that our defecations resembled those of sheep. Despite this (ie my seniority in Islam), one fine morning, the Banû 'Asad came to correct me (by teaching me) the rules of the religion! I am then disappointed and my work is in vain! (Ibn Numayr did not mention "then".)
5274. 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her) said: "From the day of the arrival of Muhammad in Medina until the time of his death, his family never ate the bread of wheat to satiety for three days right now".
5280. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: "It happened to us, the family of Muhammad, sometimes to go a month without making a fire (to cook) since we only had dates and water (for all sustenance)".
5281. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: "When the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) died, there was not left in me any food suitable for a living being, if it was only a half load of barley that was placed in a rack and i ate it for a long time, but once i measured what was left of the barley, there was nothing left ".
5284. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) died and we still had to appease our hunger only the two things: dates and water. ".
5286. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: "By Him who holds my soul in His hands - according to Ibn 'Abbâd: "By Him who holds the soul of Abu Hurayra in His hands" - until the death of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), his family never ate wheat bread three days in a row. Do not enter the houses of those who have wronged themselves unless you are in tears
5292. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said about the people of "Hijr" (the people of Salih -peace be upon him) him): "Do not enter the dwellings of these people whom God has chastened, unless you are weeping; if you are not, do not enter lest something happen to you. misfortune similar to theirs". Benevolence towards the widow, the poor and the orphan
5295. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who supports the widow and the poor will have the same merit as he who fights in the way of God". The transmitter continues: "I believe he added: or that one who constantly fasts by day and watches tirelessly at night (to pray)." One who associates another with God in a work done for His face
5302. According to Jundub Al-'Alakî (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "He who seeks only ostentation by his work, God will show his hypocrisy to people, by exposing it; and whoever seeks only to display his work before people, God will also expose his hypocrisy". Words that will cast its author into Hell
5303. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), He heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: "Man can utter words, because of which he will slip into the 'Hell (to a depth) greater than the distance which separates the East from the West'. Punishment of the one who orders to do what is proper and to abstain from evil without complying with this rule himself
5305. Usâma Ibn Zayd ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: I heard the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: On the Day of Judgment a man will be dragged to be thrown into Hell, then his entrails will come out out of his belly, and he shall be tied with his entrails to a grinder, as an ass is tied to a mill. The people of Hell will gather around him and ask him: "Hey! So-and-so, what is the matter with you? Wasn't it you who ordered what was proper and who forbade what was blameworthy?". He will answer: "Yes, I ordered what was proper, but I did not do it; I forbade what was blameworthy and I practiced it myself". Prohibition for man to show off his sins
5306. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) said: I heard the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) say: All my community will be absolved from their sins except those who parade their sins like someone who, after committing a bad deed during the night, says the next day, when God has not allowed the thing to be revealed: "Hey! So and so, yesterday I did such and such a thing", because God had left the thing secret all night and man comes in the morning to break the secret kept by God. Say to the one who sneezes (and praises God): "May God have mercy on you" and contempt for yawning
5307. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), Two men sneezed in the presence of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the latter then said to one of them: "May God have mercy!". The other man then asked the Prophet: "Why when so and so sneezed, you said to him: May God have mercy on you, whereas when I sneezed you did not say anything to me?". - "This man, answered the Prophet, praised God after having sneezed, while you, you did not do it".
5310. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "Yawning is from the devil; when one of you feels like yawning, let him try to stifle his yawn as much as he can". About the mouse
5315. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "A group of Israelites has disappeared, without anyone knowing what became; for me, I consider that they metamorphosed into mice; don't you notice that when you put camel's milk within reach, the mouse does not touch it, while it drinks Sheep's milk very well". The Believer should not be pricked twice from the same hole
5317. According to Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: "The Believer should not allow himself to be stung twice (by an animal) coming out of the same hole". Prohibition of excess praise
5319. According to Abu Bakra (may God be pleased with him), A man having praised another before the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), the latter said: "But unhappy! You cut your friend's neck, you cut your friend's neck". And he repeated these words several times, then he added: "Whoever of you who absolutely wants to praise his co-religionist must say: I believe that so and so is - and God knows well what he is and He will take it into account - that he is such and such".
5321. Abu Musa (may God be pleased with him) said: The Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), having heard a man praising another or doing it in an exaggerated manner, said: " You killed this man?, -or according to a variation-, you broke his back". Judgment on recording science
5325. According to 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her), 'Urwa said: One day, when Abu Hurayra was transmitting the hadiths of the Prophet, he said to 'Aisha: "Listen, O mistress of the house! Listen, O mistress of the house!" (so that she approves of what he says). 'A'isha was then praying, and when she finished it, she said to 'Urwa: "Do you hear what he was saying? The Prophet (peace be upon him) was telling his stories, ( so slowly that) one could have counted his words". The authentic of Muslim 55 - Exegesis
5330. Abu Hurayra (may God be pleased with him) narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him) said: The Israelites had been told: "Enter by the gate (of the city) prostrating yourselves and ask the remission of (your sins). We will forgive you your sins". Instead, they crawled in and said, "A speck in a hair (thus disobeying the divine command)."
5331. According to Anas Ibn Mâlik (may God be pleased with him), "Before the death of the Prophet (peace and blessings of God be upon him), God, the Exalted, made him successively a large number of revelations and this lasted until 'on the day of the death of the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him), during which the revelations were never more numerous'.
5332. According to 'Umar (may God be pleased with him), Tariq Ibn Shihab reports that the Jews said to 'Umar: "You recite a verse whose day of revelation would have been a feast day for us if the verse had been revealed". - "I know, answered 'Umar, when this verse was revealed, where it was revealed and the place where the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) was when he received this revelation. C ' was the day of 'Arafa - Sufyan added: I doubt if it was a Friday-, while the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) stood on 'Arafa and said: "Today' today, I have perfected your religion for you and I have accomplished My blessing upon you".
5335. According to 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her), 'Urwa Ibn Az-Zubayr transmits that having asked 'Aisha about this verse: And if you are afraid of not being just towards the orphans, ... It is permitted to marry two, three, four, among the women you like... she said: "O son of my sister, this is the guardian who has custody of an orphan and who may covet her fortune and her beauty and wish to marry her, assigning her a dowry lower than that which is the rule for her equals and which another might assign to her. God has therefore forbidden the guardians to marry the orphans whose have custody, unless they are fair to them by assigning them a full dowry; otherwise they can marry any other of the women they please". 'Urwa added that 'Aisha had said that some of the devotees having asked for clarification about this verse from the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him), God revealed the following verse: And they consult you about this which has been decreed concerning women. Say: God gives you His decree on this, in addition to what is recited to you in the Book, concerning the orphans to whom you do not give what has been prescribed to them and whom you desire to marry,... 'Aisha continued : "What God designates by what is recited to you in the Book is the verse where He says: And if you fear not to be just towards the orphans,... It is lawful to marry two, three or four , among the women you like... "As for this verse, continued 'Aïcha: And that you wish to marry it applies to the repugnance you feel for the orphan ward when she has little fortune and little beauty. . Also, God has forbidden to seek in marriage the wards when they are rich and beautiful, unless he shows himself fair to them, because this desire does not manifest itself when the wards have little fortune and little beauty. ".
5339. According to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), Regarding these words of God, the Exalted: If he is poor, then he uses it reasonably were revealed concerning the guardian responsible for taking care of the orphan's property, when he is poor, he can discreetly take food (provided he needs it) because of the services he renders (to the orphan) .
5341. According to 'A'isha (may God be pleased with her), "These words of the Koran: When they came to you from above and below (from all sides) and the eyes were troubled and the hearts ascended to the gorges... alluded to the day of the Ditch".
5342. 'Aisha (may God be pleased with her) said: These words of the Qur'an: And if a wife fears abandonment or indifference from her husband...were revealed about the woman whose husband, having spent a long period with her, wants to repudiate her and who then says to her: "Do not repudiate me, hold me back and I will give you back all that you should provide me".
5345. According to Sa'îd Ibn Jubayr (may God be pleased with him), the people of Kufa do not agree on the meaning of this verse: Whoever intentionally kills a Believer, his retribution then will be Hell. ., I went to Ibn 'Abbas to consult him on this subject and he replied: "It is one of the last verses revealed and nothing has abrogated it".
5350. Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: A group of Muslims who met a man leading his flock. He said to them: "Peace be upon you". The Muslims killed him and took his small flock. It was on this occasion that this verse was revealed And do not say to anyone who sends you the greeting (of Islam): you are not a Believer Ibn 'Abbâs read the word "as-salama" as-salâm.
5351. According to Al-Barâ' (may God be pleased with him), When the 'Ansâr performed the great pilgrimage (the Hajj) and returned home, they did not enter through the door of their house, but rear. A man of the 'Ansar having returned home by the door, he was reproached for it and it was then that this verse was revealed: And it is not a charitable act to return home by the back of the houses. Those they invoke, seek (themselves) who better, the way to get closer to the Lord
5356. According to 'Abdullâh Ibn Mas'oud (may God be pleased with him), this verse: Those whom they invoke, seek (themselves) who better, the means of getting closer to the Lord. evokes a group of jinns who were worshiped and who embraced Islam, while those who worshiped them, continued to worship them, these jinns converted to Islam. Suras "At-Tawba", "Al-'Anfâl" and "Al-Hachr"
5359. According to Ibn 'Abbâs ( رضي الله عنهما ), Sa'îd Ibn Jubayr said: As I asked Ibn 'Abbâs about sura At-Tawba, he answered me: "This sura is the one that brings shame; it has not ceased to be revealed about each other, to the point that it was believed that no one would fail to be named in it". - "And sura Al-'Anfâl?". - "It was revealed on the occasion of Badr". - "And sura Al-Hachr?". - "It was revealed about the Banû An-Nadîr". From the verse concerning the prohibition of wine
5360. Ibn 'Umar ( رضي الله عنهما ) said: One day 'Umar preached in the pulpit of the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him). He praised God and glorified Him, then said: "The Revelation forbids you the wine which then came from five sources: wheat, barley, dates, grapes and honey. Wine is all that veils the intelligence There are three questions on which I would have liked the Messenger of God (peace and blessings of God be upon him) to fix us before leaving us forever: the inheritance of the grandfather, the inheritance of the deceased who has no heirs and some of the issues regarding usurious interest". About this verse: "Here are two opposing clans who disputed about their Lord"
5362. Narrated Abu Dharr (may Allah be pleased with him) Qays Ibn 'Ubad said: I heard Abu Dharr swear that this verse: Behold two opposing clans which disputed about their Lord was revealed about those who, on the day of Badr, came out of the ranks to fight in single combat, namely: Hamza, 'Alî, 'Ubayda Ibn Al-Hârith, 'Utba, and Chayba both sons of Rabî'a and Al-Walîd Ibn 'Utba .
